ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e374	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meeting this week – and considers it adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg and Jon Georg Dale. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg and Jon Georg Dale are unanimously elected presidents of this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e387	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1-13 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e540	Helge Orten has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e545	On behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, I will promote a law note to the Law Decision 119 not to approve that Law Decision. It seems that the Storting may have made a minor error in that voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e550	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1-13.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e566	At the request of the Special Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President and each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e573	The EOS Committee is the agency of the Storting for the secret services. The commission's mission is to control the intelligence, surveillance and security services. The EOS Committee has examined the Frode Berg case on its own initiative. The Committee delivered its final opinion in the case on 14 December 2020. The committee has repeatedly asked the management whether the information contained in the opinion can be downgraded or downgraded, including whether the conclusions of the committee can be notified to the Stortinget unupgraded. The management has decided that all the information is security graded, even if it has been criticised or not. In case of doubt as to the grading of information in messages, the management decision is binding on the sample, see. The third paragraph of Section 11 of the EOS Control Act. The EOS Committee has given a specific notice to the Storting in order to draw attention to the fact that, in view of the control of the Storting against the Administration, the Stortinge should familiarise itself with security-rated information, cf. EOS Control Act § 17 second paragraph. In this case, the sample considers that the size should be familiar with the evaluations and conclusions of the sample, as shown in the final classified report of the sample. On 25 February 2021, in line with the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Grand Duchy decided to set up a separate committee to deal with the matter. There has been a disagreement in the Special Committee on whether the summary of the Committee’s opinion could be downgraded. I can refer to my own debate and decision in Stortinget relating to this on 20 May 2021. There are also comments in this position regarding that debate, but I am not spending any more time on it since this has been a matter of my own in Stortinget and was clarified on 20 May. As the rapporteur for the special committee, I would like to express my special thanks to the chairman of the committee and to the members of the committee for their good cooperation and good work on this particular matter. I would also like to thank the Administration of Storting and the secretariat of the Committee for the organisation that the administration always does for us big-time representatives. I, as the rapporteur, have a wish to highlight what the Committee has agreed to in this position as a conclusion, and that is well in point I. It is that an overall committee, as stated in the comments, and thus the Storting, supports the thorough work of the EOS Committee and supports the conclusions and recommendations of the committee. Furthermore, the Committee acknowledges together the publicly known follow-up of Frode Berg from the government after the arrest. The Committee shall also jointly promote the following proposals for decisions, which are agreed upon: ‘The size recognises the thorough work of the EOS Committee and supports the sample Conclusions and recommendations.’» It will be important for the further work of the EOS Committee to give them today this recognition of the Storting and the support contained in this proposal, and the support that a unanimous increase will give to the conclusions and recommendations of the sample today. I have also registered that it is distributed a loose proposal that we will vote for later today. It will not be possible to go into and debate in any way. But as the rapporteur-in-Office, I can say that I believe it is unreasonable to make such a proposal to the Minister of Defence at that time based on the information we have in this matter. So I don't want to recommend joining this proposal from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e597	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for a good job and agreeing fully with the presentation he gave of the setting available. I think it was a unanimous committee that agreed that it was important that there was also an open position in this matter, which there has been a lot of attention around. So the rapporteur mentioned that there has been a disagreement. No one has thought that everything can be published in this case, but if we had a small summary from the EOS Committee, it would be a little more complete, open setting. But even if we disagree, we respect the decision that is made on it, and that is the background for the setting having the form it has, which is quite short. First of all, as the rapporteur-in-Office, I would like to stress what there is broad agreement on, and precisely what the rapporteur was at the end: the importance we attach to the Committee giving its full support to the thorough work of the EOS Committee and its conclusions and recommendations, and that it has been included as a separate point of decision, also because there has been a little discussion between the sample and the Ministry of Defence about what might be published. But in general, given the importance of the job done by the EOS Committee in relation to our secret services, I think it is important to stress what the case rapporteur said, that we fully support the conclusions of the sample in its report, but which I cannot reproduce, and hope that it will also help to provide a good and safe basis for the authority of the sample in similar tasks in the future. I also think, as the rapporteur, that it is important that we say that the Committee recognises the publicly known follow-up that Frode Berg has received from the government after the arrest. We refer here just to the government's confirmation, not all other kinds of information that is also known in this case – we have been careful about it. It is known that the government, among others. the Council of State has met with Frode Berg, that compensation has been paid, etc. We thought it was right to stress that with the history of the case, it has been true that he has received the attention in the follow-up to which this is referred. It's no secret that there's been a disagreement about secrecy or not. I refer you to the debate we had here on 20 May, without repeating it. It seems natural for the majority of the Committee to criticise the secrecy, in particular on the basis that the EOS Committee felt that the summary could be open. I don't spend any more time on it. The rapporteur has already launched a proposal for strong criticism by the Minister of Defence at that time, but, as the rapporteur said, one cannot be argued for this. It's a difficult situation, because you can't argue with this either. That's why we reviewed until the last time about such a proposal maybe should go to the secret position, but we think it would be undemocratic if the Stortinge felt there's reason to promote criticism of a government council, that it should be kept secret. The background for not being able to justify it is the secrecy that is in the matter. So that's the background for the proposal to come in the way it comes in. I can't give a single argument for that. But the secret documents have been accessed by all the big ones, and there is some argument as to why we believe the proposal is correct, on page 21 of the secret ballot, for those who want to go deeper into it. I shall therefore refer to the proposal in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e616	Then the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e621	It is in their place to give honor to the rapporteur for having handled this matter well. It's demanding for all of us when we're going to deal with a matter completely different from what we tend to do, where we have good rounds and a lot of openness, and then all of a sudden everything is going to happen in a very specific way in a very specific room. However, the rapporteur has dealt with this well. There has also been good cooperation within the Committee. We have included each other and come up with good solutions. And as both of the previous two have underlined, we agree with the conclusions of the EOS Committee. That's why it's important that it comes out here as well. It is a recognition of both the importance of the work of the EOS Committee and the efforts they have made in this matter. Let me underline that. We've had a process around this with open mode or not, and the result is known. That part we discussed on Thursday, as the committee chairman said, so I'm not commenting on it any more now. But it's like we're dealing with what happened on Thursday, and of course it has something to do with our vote. The last thing is that we are now invited to debate on this matter with a loose proposal that we cannot debate. It's demanding. I think it's very demanding, and in it it's not that it can't be done, let me clarify it. It can, of course, be done, but it will almost be a little absurd when we have a debate in which a proposal is presented that puts a Council of States defenceless to the text in it. It asks so far all of us, except for those of us who have been in debate in the closed case and in the closed room, a lot of questions: is there criticism for not having done anything? Is there criticism for having done too little, or perhaps too much, or that something is completely wrong? What is it? The Labour Party faction leader, Dag Terje Andersen, and I've fought a lot for transparency in many contexts, not least in the last year, and we're occupied with it, but here it gets demanding, because transparency isn't open. So it's based on the fact that someone can think of something, can connect something, but the public doesn't create it, because the public can't decide if they think this criticism is reasonable or not. Is that the basis for this criticism, or is it not? It's demanding. That's why I think it's very special that it's promoted as it does now. Expressing that there's something you're not satisfied with, as I said, it's a full opportunity to, but asking society, all around us, to take a stand against a former councillor in this area without us in any way being able to justify what it is, or to defend ourselves against it, is demanding. I must admit that I have pondered very much about why this came now, as a resolved proposal in the matter. I've really tried to figure out that this must be okay from the opposition's side, but I haven't found any good reason for it when we have other arenas where we can discuss it as thoroughly as we can. Then those who promote the proposal, and possibly support it, stand for it, and then we just get to wonder what might be the reason they're suggesting that such a proposal right now, at the tame of this accumulation period, before a choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e636	I would also like to thank both the rapporteur and the special committee for their very good work. With regard to the content of the matter itself, I refer to my contribution to the closed meeting earlier today and to the debate there. However, I will be able to acknowledge the thorough work of the EOS Committee on this matter and support the conclusions and recommendations of the panel. I'm very happy that it's a unanimous big deal that gives them that recognition. As far as the solution to the proposal under consideration is concerned, like the previous speaker, I am very surprised that this is coming now. I just want to say that the Progress Party will not support the proposal. The criticism contained in the proposal is highly unreasonable and very special. The reason for this lies in another meeting, and I have no opportunity to go further into it. That's what's so special about this. The Progress Party does not support the resolution, but recognises the thorough work and conclusions of the EOS Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e647	We're now in a unique situation. For the first time in the EOS selection's 25-year-old history, there's an inconsistency between the selection and the Ministry of Defence about grading a case. I mean, the selection has made wise and good judgements in a demanding situation. The centre party supports the selection and suggests that a summary of the graduated final report could be published. That's not how it was. The control of the EOS selection shall prevent the rights of individuals from being infringed by the secret services. The operation of the selection is an instrument of parliamentary control by the Storting. As a result, the messages of the selection must be sent to Storing, giving as whole and as trustworthy a picture of the control as possible. It is particularly important that the Storting should be informed of criticism of services that can update parliamentary and constitutional responsibilities to the Council of State, or indicate general, comprehensive or structural problems in the service. For this reason, I am very pleased that the Committee has agreed on the content of the EOS Committee. Openness in this matter is about taking control tasks to the EOS selection seriously. Now we cannot debate a holistic picture of what has been found. The various views in the configuration refer to information from a closed hearing, without the visibility of the control panel showing up. This is a problem both for Size Control and for the confidence in the secret services. When the EOS Selection began its work in 1996, there was a climate of distrust between the political environment and the secret services. Developments in the professionalization of the control function of the selection have contributed to a better relationship between the EOS selection and the secret services, but also to more seniors' confidence in the work they do. By scoring when not strictly necessary, trust becomes weak. Security laws exist to safeguard national security interests, not to secure a sitting council and protect him from criticism. That is the basis for the strong criticism we have of the Minister of Defence in the vote. Of course, not all EOS selections control can be public. Of course, it's the department that decides the grading of information. But the EOS selection is the independent control body of the Storting. The EOS selection itself should be able to assess which classified information the Size should know. Grading in this case should not create a precedent for similar matters further. It will hurt both the secret services and the democracy they are set to protect. I refer to Decision II, where the Stortinget finds it critical that Minister of Defence Frank Bakke-Jensen keeps the summary of the EOS Committee report secret. I would like to inform you that the Centre Party will support the loose proposal of the Workers' Party and SV. I understand that it is difficult to do a thing from a closed position, but when the representative Horne here was clear that she thought the criticism was untrue, then I must be allowed to say that I believe the criticism is actually correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e666	I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the thorough work he has done in the Committee on this matter and not least the rapporteur's thanks to the rest of the committee and, in particular, the administration for getting us through this difficult matter. It is good that today we are dealt with in at least a small part of this matter in the open room. It is important, because now in the public domain, the Stortinget can provide its support for the work of the EOS Committee and its support for the conclusions and recommendations of the Selection Board. The size gives our authority in this matter as well as in the work of the future on other demanding matters with that control committee. In addition, we can publicly acknowledge the follow-up that Frode Berg has received after the arrest, because this is a person who has experienced something very stressful, and then the smallest possible hand bill in this position is in place. At the same time, the open setting shows in a way also the more absurd in the matter, when so much is publicly known, but that is only what we can provide. The secret in this case creates speculation and provides ground for misinformation. It is harmful to the job that our services are supposed to do, and it hampers the open control of the services. An open and informed conversation about important issues is going down, and the critical search for services is going down. This part of the control of services is also important. Even if we have a sample that sits in classified information on our behalf, there is also an open and informed public conversation that continues to do so, and it is prevented in such a case because of the secrecy. It weakens the trust in the services. In our time, trust in the services is crucial for the job they are going to do. Mistilite is actively used by other parties. That's why we come to the conclusion that there is reason to promote criticism by Minister of Defence Frank Bakke-Jensen of the secrecy in this matter. We can never get into a situation where the government, through secrecy, intercepts Storting's ability to control – and yes, even criticise – the government of the public space. We can never accept that any criticism of the Storting must be made in secret rooms. That is why the second criticism also comes. Why we believe that this is a highly critical situation in this matter is shown in the closed section. I really believe that when you first want to make proposals for criticism, it should be done in an open case. That's one of the reasons why this comes here and now. It is about the democratic reasons we have to take, and the people should be aware that the Storting should then, if necessary, adopt a criticism proposal or that it has been promoted by a criticism proposal. I have to say that I have very much respect for the negative consequences of that having to be done that way, as the representative Harberg mentions in his speech, but then it is important to say that the difficulties are caused by the secrecy of the matter, not by the promotion of a proposal here today. There are a number of difficulties, and I believe in and on behalf of the Council of State when he says he would like to be able to discuss more in the open room. It creates speculation, it creates distrust, it creates misinformation. That's where we're standing because of the secrecy. We in the opposition use the opportunity and right we have to promote criticism, and the reason for that is part of the closed case we've now been through.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e683	Thanks to the EOS selection for coming from work. Thanks also to the case-speaker and the committee for your good work and cooperation. To the loose proposal: I have great respect for the fact that several parties believe there is reason to put forward such criticism by the daring councillor Ine Eriksen Soreide, but I am disunited. It's me, despite the fact that I've also, of course, agreed in principle that when critical things happen in subordinate bodies, the Storting knows only the Council of State responsible and can only criticize the Council of State. However, there is a great responsibility on Stortinget to practice the principle of respect and caution, so that the Institute does not lose the authority it must have – not least in a matter where neither the Council of State itself nor we who disagree in the criticism can justify why we are dissident. Without being able to go into detail: if this matter is to be set as a precedent for when the Storting criticises government councils, then the Storting adds the list to a level I think someone should bother with coming over to the future. Secret or not: I'm supposed to be open that I was originally composed in the assessments that parts of the report should be able to write so that they could become public. After getting quite such an intrusive knowledge of the basis for why both the main report and the interim report are written as they are written, I am however completely overestimated that secrecy is unfortunately absolutely necessary. So one can also establish, as this case fully shows, that the democratic control of the secret services, and the transparency of the Storting, are very well cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e698	The debate in the open part of the case is largely about the grading of the documents. The EOS Committee is an important body appointed by the Storting in order to verify the performance of the e-service under adopted law. It is essential to be able to have ongoing democratic control of the service. Through its control activities on behalf of the Stortinget, on the one hand, it is mandatory to encourage the services to be as transparent as possible and, on the other hand, to take care of the security of the State. The committee is also responsible for assessing the impact of the information provision on national security interests. In the evaluation committee report, it was first established that the right of the administration to decide on the degradation of information has not been perceived as a major obstacle to the monitoring of the sample so far and, second, that in cases where the grading is in doubt, the matter is to be referred to the relevant department for decision — a decision which will be binding on the EOS Committee at the next stage. From the point of view of the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress the principle that it is the information owner who has to take the final decision relating to a possible downgrading. It would in principle be very unfortunate if the Stortinget were to review the government's decisions in matters relating to the grading of documents under the Security Act. The relationship between state powers must be clear. The government must have the tools needed to carry out the necessary tasks, while at the same time ensuring control of the population. We therefore believe it is essential that the Storting should carry out parliamentary and elected control in a manner that treats sensitive and classified information correctly. We understand, of course, that Storting can set the safety law aside by means of a special law. However, such a special law would be totally contrary to the principle of the Security Act, namely that the issuer of the information is the one to decide on grading. According to the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the Stortinge should not give itself a legal basis to become a case manager of individual documents that the security authorities rate. If the Storting takes ownership of classified information, the result can actually be less transparency, no more. The executive must have confidence that the Storting processes information correctly. Only then can the Storting exercise its important control function. At the same time, there must be equal practice regardless of whether it is minority or majority rule. Respect for the Security Act must be equal, regardless of whether a government has a majority or a minority in the Storting. It is therefore, in my opinion, very important for the Storting to review the government’s graduation decisions. The Christian People's Party supports the assessments made by the Ministry of Defence in this matter, that both the EOS Committee's report and the summary have been graduated. Then a loose proposal has been made in the Chamber of the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party on criticism of the Council of State. I think it is particularly important to promote a proposal which is not justified and which does not argue against either. It's actually a situation that puts us all in check. I just have to say for my part that I do not experience that as a contribution to an open and enlightened debate. Finally, I would like to express my great thanks to the EOS Committee for their work and support their conclusion and recommendation. I would otherwise like to thank the case rapporteur for his good review and work on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e724	The open position of the Special Committee focuses on the issue of grading and information society. When it comes to the question of grading, I believe that we from the Ministry of Defence have always been connected to the legal system. Both the Safety Act and the EOS Control Act are based on the basic principle that it is the information owner who decides grading. It is related to the fact that if information is downgraded or downgraded, it is best for the information owner to assess the consequences. This is also the background to the fact that the Stortinget, when revising the EOS Control Act, maintained that the EOS Committee does not have the right to downgrade information belonging to the EOS Services. I note that the majority of the committee disagrees with me in the actual assessment of the grading, and that they find my assessment critical. I stress that throughout this process I have made thorough assessments of the question. I believe that the considerations relating to downgrading do not outweigh the weighty considerations underlying grading. The minority of the Committee expresses support for this and adds that they consider the need for control of secret services to be very well served in this case. Another thing Stortinget maintained when the EOS Control Act was revised is the provision in the third paragraph of Section 17. Here it is stated that the messages from the EOS Committee to the Stortinget and their attachments shall be unupgraded. I note that some claim that because the EOS Committee is the agency of the Stortinge, the sample should be able to provide classified information to the Stortinge in a case the sample has examined. For further reasons, reference is made to the autonomy of the EOS Committee. I believe that this argument is not correct, not least because it is in direct contradiction with what the Storting itself has adopted in the form of the law, in the EOS Control Act Section 11, third paragraph. The provision there cannot be misunderstood. I have made the presidency aware of my view in writing, so that this does not evolve improperly. Here it is critical that we establish a unified understanding of the law. At the same time, I would like to stress that the matter would not have had any other outcome if you had followed the correct procedure. I have always been clear that I will help to enable the Storting to carry out its control task. I would also like to comment on something that may appear misleading, from the debate on Innst. 372 L for 2020 to 2021 earlier this month, which concerned issues related to the degradation of the EOS Committee summary. In this context, it was discussed in the context of the presidency's setting-up of a statutory downgrading that would mean that in the future the control bodies would be more restrained from giving control bodies access to classified information. I perceive that some representatives read this as some kind of rice behind the mirror. That's not the case. Control bodies have legal access to information. This obligation shall be complied with by the control bodies. At the same time, it is important to stress that a good control model is based on mutual trust between the controller and the controller. This trust I believe has been in place for the last 25 years, and I assume that the good trust continues. I would like to conclude by saying that I am also very pleased with the work and report of the EOS Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e741	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e746	I would like to ask the Council of State to say a little more about what has been said by several teams, namely that the authority and credibility of the EOS Committee must be protected and is important for the work of the sample to control the secret services, and that it is also about the people's confidence in the EOS Committee and once again the trust in the secret services. Does the Council of State see how the decision on secrecy affects that trust and, to the extent that the armbeat of the sample also has in order to follow up its important task on behalf of the Stortinget – as our controlling body for the secret services? What is the Council of State's assessment of the side of the case and of the criticism raised, in view of this secrecy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e751	One of the reasons for setting up the EOS Committee was that it was recognised that it was dependent on having parliamentary control of matters and information that could not be debated in public. What's good about the EOS committee is that we've given them confidence that they're investigating on our behalf. Then we have a closed treatment in Stortinget, where we judge the information we get when it's so sensitive that it makes sense. It is a very good system, and it is also clear in the EOS Control Act and the Security Act that there are information sites that assess the consequences of any downgrading or downgrading, and that then determine downgrading and downgrading. But the control of the EOS Committee in a closed system provides the confidence we need to have in controlling the secret services.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e758	The EOS Committee is set to help the Storting to carry out parliamentary control of the EOS services. My question to the Council of State is whether or not he is entirely opposed to the fact that, in addition to it, there is also an advantage, especially for the same services, to the fact that, where possible, there is, as far as possible, an open, informed discussion on potential for improvement, on important issues already known to the public. Is it not the consideration of the Ministry of Defence under Frank Bakke-Jensen when, as an information traveler, he assesses the level of graduation of reports from the Supervisory Body of Stortinge?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e765	Yes, that's consideration. There are also considerations that have been governing in my role as Minister of Defence in the job of the new law on Intelligence. Communication between the EOS Committee and services is central. We have a lot of openness. In 25 years, the EOS Committee has delivered classified messages twice. That is, we have great openness around the secret services. We have now provided a intelligence service law that takes into account that we have had a technological development that has also made it more problematic, where the EOS Committee has also been a good partner to describe issues surrounding it with control. We are now actively using them in the job of the new Intelligence Services Act to be absolutely sure that we have the control mechanisms we have. We have great openness around it. Sometimes we have to have graduated control; that's what we've seen in these cases, and I think it's also been done the right way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e772	Governments used a lot of their input to justify why you're going to have a secret. I just need to stress that we fully agree that a closed system, as the Council of State said, that the EOS Committee must have access to a lot of information that does not necessarily need to be reproduced in their settings, is a good system. I have been lucky and have been able to compare it with similar control systems in other Nordic countries and think we have a very good system with the EOS Committee. What is particularly important in this case – and this is the first time it has happened in the 25-year history of the EOS Committee – is that there is disagreement about secrecy and that they have produced a summary that they believe can be published. And some of us who have read both the report and the summary and see the difference between the two, are in agreement with the EOS committee and want to put ourselves behind them – because we have a responsibility for it, and it's to make sure that no secret is used for anything but to protect the state's secrets, namely, to protect the government's convenience. Does the Council of State see that there's a point?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e779	Yeah, I see that's an obvious point. And then the disagreement is that I'm set to overlook the consequences of downgrading the information, and the consequences I think are too big. So the reasons are more burdensome to keep the graduation than to degrade. So it is that there are information sites that have been given that competence, to make those assessments, and in this case it is not the EOS committee. If they did, we have to change the law. I have not registered that someone has suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e784	It is the case that the EOS Committee considers that the summary is not problematic, and that should be the case. But when the State Council refers to the Security Act, in the right way, I have to ask the question: Does the State Council believe that the Stortinget does not have the authority to downgrade by law decisions if the Stortinget discovers – a purely hypothetical case, of course – that the secret is abused for convenience rather than security reasons? Does the State Council recognise that the Storting has the competence, which even the majority of the population acknowledges that the Storting has, or will the Council of State dispute it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e789	I have never disputed that the Stortinget can degrade in the form of law. But, as I said, it wouldn't be a bill that came from me; it would be a bill that the Storting would then try to promote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e795	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e800	The board of directors of the secret services, the EOS Committee, has written a thorough report on the Frode Berg case and a summary. Both the sample and an overall committee have considered that the summary can and should be published. The background to this is that publication is necessary in order to restore confidence in the services and to ensure the necessary clean-up, and also in the interests of democratic principles. It would also be in line with the proposal put forward by Mr Redt on a unanimous roll-out last year, namely that the Harberg Committee, as it is called, should promote a proposal to strengthen both the control and involvement of the Stortinge in foreign and defence policy. And in line with the principle behind the unanimous recommendation of the sample, which the majority point to in their vote, when a national audit report contains classified information, it shall be issued an unrated version of the report where classified information is omitted, but which is otherwise as complete as possible. Unfortunately, the government parties with the Progress Party have turned around and are now calling about the government's irresponsible secret team. That's why it's the first time EOS makes a graduated report to Stortinget. Red is with the rest of the committee majority that the government's secrecy of the summary is unnecessary and also critical. It weakens confidence in the secret services, and it also weakens the control of the EOS Committee. Then I heard Harberg's criticism of the criticism, that there is neither justification nor argument against in the open room, that it is then directed as an accusation against the parties behind the criticism. But it's the Department of Defense that's put us in this little bit of pragmatism with its insistence on keeping absolutely everything secret. And what we end up with is something that is both parochial and really unworthy of a democracy; that the Storting must discuss a secret report with a secret attitude, with secret suggestions, in a secret debate, in a secret room at a secret time, with secret vote, secret decisions, secret outcome and secret record. It's setting up the smith to criticise the opposition on the Stortinget because we've ended up here. It's the Council of State, the Department, that's put us in such a situation. Then it is our opinion that a functioning democracy is impossible without popular control of the exercise of power. During this period, the government has restricted a total of four of the five control bodies of the Grand Duchy by imposing obligations of professional secrecy and decisions which also remove the necessary transparency from the control bodies. Thus, secrecy in this matter is part of the legacy of the Solberg government, the Sunberg antiparliamentary, where our democracy is built down a bit by bit. But Red will go in the head to rebuild it by a new majority after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e811	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e816	The last lesson in the border of secrecy of the representative of Moxnes, who himself violates his constitutional duties by pronouncing from the enlarged Foreign and Defence Committee, is being pursued by others. If we then address the more serious participants in the debate, there has also been criticism from the Workers' Party, which is really at the heart of criticising the Ministry of Defence for not overseeing their security records when they exercise their administrative discretion and adhere to the adopted laws of the Storting, which in this context are two. It's the Security Act, and it's the EOS Control Act. So here's a pressure from the opposition that we're constantly going to change the rules, because that's exactly what Dag Terje Andersen got out of a line exchange earlier, that the Storting has the competence to change the laws. But it is simply not wise, because it also does something about the balance system between the administration, which exercises statutory authority, and the Stortinget, which can potentially use special laws to intervene in a close to any arrangement made by an office that is uncorrupt, capable, and professionally oriented. So if you want to call it, this is really the opportunity to listen to the sirensong you get from the opposition in this context, where you deliberately mix parliamentary control with control through the control bodies. I'm not going to go any further into this, but I think one should think carefully by saying that if we deviate from the principle that there are information sites that take a stand – based on knowledge of the area, grading and that they also have the exclusive competence to both downgrade and downgrade – and then introduce such a special traffic here in the Storting, then these agencies will have to take account of the arguments for graduation, while at the same time assessing the political risk of being over-tested on a party political basis. I guess that's not how we want security charges to work. So there are major adverse effects on predictability for those who do a good job for Norway, and it also has adverse effects if it is that Norway becomes a place where the international cooperating intelligence services, when sharing information with each other, perceives that the Storting is a major leakage to those who do not want to land well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e829	I would like to remind you that there is a very broad consensus in the Storting on the importance of the Security Act, and that of course we should not have any publicity about what is a threat to Norway's security. I don't think anyone here disagrees. The discussion in this case is not really about it. In relation to the current discussion here, about the relationship to the so-called solution of the proposal, I ask the position to think through its argument at this point quite carefully. If a secret team prevents criticism of a government council, we have a pretty significant problem, at least if it's that way that you can't promote that proposal in public, by reference to the discussion you've had in a secret meeting. Is the criticism of the Council of State supposed to be secret? I would characterise that as a significant democratic and constitutional problem, if that is what you think. You can't be serious. In the case in question, it must be actively taken into account that it is the secret that creates this situation – by the majority of the population, not by the opposition. The two arguments in this context, I think, are the heavy and the valid ones in this context. I did not have the opportunity to take part in the discussion on the subject of secrecy, but I would like to take the opportunity here in this debate to say on a more general basis that I believe that the Storting should be very careful to undermine the authority of its own control institutions. You have to be incredibly careful about that. Now you can say that in this matter here you have some arguments that lie in the border country – without me going into which, of course – but there are other issues. In the examination of the National Audit Office's report on the sale of weapons that we had here 14 days ago, the government, by reference to the Security Act, prevented the publication of a report that the Riksaudition itself thought could be degraded, and dismisses the Storting from a very important discussion on arms exports and various aspects of it. There are many aspects to this there is every reason to have heavy attention around.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e840	Maybe it was C.J. Hambro, who said that any representative is free to express the confusion that prevails in his head, and it has certainly rarely been better suited than after the short but incoherent speech stream from Michael Tetzschner about the signed representative. It's hardly worth spending time on, but I can use half a minute just to refute what's said. There are claims of leakages from a meeting in DUUFK. There are negotiations subject to professional secrecy, and we are all in agreement with that, but it is not forbidden for a party to say what is political about the revelations – as it was at the time – of alleged American espionage directed also to Norway. There is no secret that Red is critical of spying against Norway, even if it comes from the United States, and there is no state secret, no violation of any law or rule, to tell the public that there is red critical to. It should almost be a matter of course that all parties were critical even if the great ally in the West were to spy on Norwegian top politicians – as is claimed, I see, in the news of this weekend. It is also true that when the head of the committee tells the public that the espionage matter will be the subject of a meeting in DUFK, then there is no secret that the espionage matter is the subject of a meeting in DUFK. It is then publicly known that the espionage matter is the subject of a meeting in DUUFK, and not least when the defence minister has told the public that he has also sent a letter to his colleague on the matter, and will set up if it becomes the subject of a meeting with the Stortinget. So, in sum, it's not much to worry about in this speech stream from Tetzschner regarding alleged fractures, leaks, etc. But the serious thing is that we have a government that, through a pattern over time, operates secrecy beyond what is necessary, in order to protect itself from criticism and not to protect the security of the state. I just remind you that the Storting has several control bodies that each, four out of five, have had their power and authority curtailed by decisions of the government that have purposed and been given the function of limiting the possibility of the Storting's control of the government. That's what's at the heart of the solar antiparliamentary, which should worry Tetzschner a little more than that Red tells what Red thinks about spying on Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e851	I'm going to let representatives Moxnes and Tetzschner deal with the extended Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. Let me just get to comment on what Tetzschner said about the desire for degradation to be politicized, because it is now that in this process everyone agreed even the stage of the process in which the presidency sent letters to the Ministry of Defence asking for degradation. So some of us have meant it further, and then someone else has thought that the Department of Defence's arguments for not degrading are good enough. It's a real thing, but at least it can't be those who've been standing on the same line all along, who suddenly along the way should have started making party politics out of this. Until then, control activities are actually too important. Then I can only, with someone saying that it is a baseless proposal of strong criticism by the then Minister of Defence, make sure that it is solidly founded, described and written, but cannot be referred from here. But I have referred to which side of the secret report it is on, page 21. So I agree that there should be a very high threshold because Storting uses its ability to downgrade. We fully agree on that. But it's especially when the EOS Committee itself believes that an interim report can be upgraded. Like others, it's part of a pattern, for example. the arms export discussion for a short time, as Kolberg mentioned. We've had a secret discussion about F-35 where much of what was secret in Norway is in public reports in both Denmark and the United States. But it was to be kept secret in Norway. We've had other situations where the Riksrevision has also believed that the secret team is going too far. It is also an important democratic perspective for the Storting, namely that secrecy is not abused for political convenience, but that there are real security policy considerations that must ensure that something is kept secret. That's why I'm glad that the Storting has the opportunity to downgrade, and that's why I was shocked by the majority of the presidency's arguments for not deflating this case, namely that a principle can never do it because it can be difficult, as the Minister of Defence was in the house, later to get out information. So there is information that our control bodies require, and we must never get there that Norwegian parliamentarianism should be about the Storting having to take care that the government has confidence in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e864	Numbering current is not a bad expression in the case of the representative Moxnes’ own layouts. He needed much more than half a minute to run from his own responsibility as a representative, because you can't blame others when you're allowed to interview in a daily newspaper – about theme choices and what you're saying, and what you have the impression of someone else's posts. So I think we're going to let that person slip around in his own little lake of ignorance. What is more suitable to worry about is that Dag Terje Andersen, who has been the prime minister of big business, still has problems seeing the point of maintaining a clear division of labour – as the Stortinget itself has added to the administration, which exercises authority according to strict principles of fact – where the review takes place in the Ministry of Defence, and the fact that, politically, at Stortinget, the Ministry of Defence is urging the Ministry of Defence to rethink this. Then you fold back when you see that the exercise of discretion is the same as last time – because it's legally binding, so it's not so surprising. Finally, the Storting is turning back to promote a special law, which would have very unfortunate consequences. They have the competence, but they should not use it to permeate the division of responsibilities between the executive and the Storting as legislator and the controlling power. Otherwise, I find that you do not keep track of who controls what either. All external bodies are now being called upon to exercise parliamentary control. It's strictly just the Storting itself that does. The other are auxiliary agencies, and they are targeted at different elements of the administration. From this point of view, the EOS Committee is a special organisation to which other parliaments give way because they are concerned that the control activities in this sensitive area are becoming the casting ball for party politics luners. People can do their own thinking after hearing this round. It's very good to say about the EOS committee, but they're not information sites. They are not the ones to decide on downgrading, and therefore they are not the ones that can be loaded for misassessment. It's only the executive that can do. It's the principle of responsibility, and something else would just be undermining the ability of Storting to control the executive, because then, in reality, there are others who have taken that position. Once again, I have to say, it's amazing that you don't even know the Council of States, because we do agree here that it's the current Council of States you have to give instructions to, and not historical.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e877	I still need a little comment on this with the downgrading, which we really discussed another day. It was said here that some of the parties went on the downgrading and thus became political. No, it was the first report we asked the department to assess whether they could degrade in whole or in part. We received a reply that it did not work. And then we got a summary, which we also asked about being able to degrade. We were told that it did not work, and then we related ourselves to it. It's not to turn around for political reasons, it's simply to deal with those who have the competence to decide it, and respect that they've made the whole decision. Only those who have the complete background information can decide. Then I just have to stress one thing, because it is said and has been said in several debates and repeated today that the Ministry of Defence has classified this as ‘secret’ for convenience. They have no authority anywhere to grade anything for convenience. There are clear things that can make them degrees, and that's what they've been using. It's a matter of national security. That's what it's about, not convenience. Had they done so, and had I suspected that there was something like that inside it, I shall say that we had given a clear message. No, that's really justified, and that's exactly what the representative Kolberg and several others have said, that they would respect it if it was justified that way, if it was because of the security of the state. So that's the rationale right over here. We who have been in a closed hearing have been given a clear explanation as to why it is handled as it is, and then we deal with it. It's not a political turnaround, it's simply to deal with what's going on, in terms of grading and grading skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e886	It was claimed that this was a threat to democracy. The fact that we are able to have parliamentary control over the secret services honors our democracy. We also have this control in full in cases where we have to deal with matters classified for the sake of national security. Then I will be allowed to thank for a long political process and a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e893	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e911	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e918	The case concerns changes to the Foreign Affairs Act — expulsion in the event of a change in residence status, etc. The Government proposes to clarify that if the foreigner had a temporary residence permit at the time he committed a criminal offence, the issue of expulsion as a starting point shall be assessed in accordance with the rules on the expulsion of a foreigner with a temporary residence permit, even if the permit has expired at the time of the decision. Furthermore, it is proposed that the one-year period for the adoption of a decision on expulsion by reason of the penalties imposed for alienation with a temporary residence permit should not apply if the temporary residence permit expires before the end of the one-year period. It is then proposed that in the case of continuous criminal offences covering a period during which the foreigner has changed his residence status, the expulsion assessment shall be carried out in accordance with the rules on the expulsion of non-residents without a residence permit if the foreigner has been in part of the period without such authorisation. If the foreigner has a permanent residence permit and is penalised for a continuous criminal offence which started before the permanent residence permit was granted, the expulsion assessment shall be carried out in accordance with the rules on the expulsion of a foreigner with a temporary residence permit. The Committee considers and sees that this is only a clarification of the legislation which is largely current practice today, and that there is an overall committee which is behind it. There have been no minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e931	This proposition is essentially a clarification in the legislation of current practice. But a clarification on matters related to this field should never be underestimated. As the Foreign Affairs Act is today, there is sufficient regulation in place in cases where the foreigner had a temporary residence permit at the time of the act but is without a residence permit at the time of the decision. The Christian People's Party, together with an overall committee and a relatively overall voice from the hearing bodies, therefore considers it wise to regulate that it is the point of intersection to be taken into account in the assessment of expulsion. Furthermore, the Government proposes to regulate the handling of expulsion issues in these cases under the rules on temporary residence permit expulsion if the foreigner had such a permit at the time of the act – even if the foreigner is without a temporary residence permit at the time of the decision. Taking into account the status of residence at the time of the act, greater emphasis is placed on taking into account the predictability of the non-resident. This is an important fundamental principle. When we create greater predictability for the foreigner, we contribute, among other things. that long procedural periods will not have an effect on the decision. This gives a clear intersection time that is unaffected by later events. This believes that the Christian People's Party most respects the rights of the foreigner. We support this committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e942	The Foreign Affairs Act does not currently have a clear regulation as to whether the provisions on the expulsion of non-residents with or without a residence permit are to be applied when the foreigner has a temporary residence permit at the time of the act, but is without a residence permit at the time of the decision. With the proposals which the Committee has now agreed to in the vote, it is made clear that the legislation on the expulsion of foreigners with a temporary residence permit is to be applied in such a case. We thus get a clearer piece of legislation, and it will be easier for UDI and UNE to clarify what is the correct grounds for expulsion in cases where the foreigner's residence status changes. The proposal provides a clear point of intersection which is unaffected by subsequent events and by the time of administrative proceedings. This ensures the rights and predictability of the foreigner in a good way and has received broad support in the consultation. I am pleased that it is an overall committee that has supported all the proposals in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e951	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e968	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e975	This issue is about a proposal from the Progress Party not to participate in the New Pact on Migration and Asylum – if adopted. Another point concerns, in principle, the winding-up of the asylum institution in Norway and has five sub-items. All parties, except the Advance Party, reject these proposals. I am pleased that the Committee says that they will be subject to their obligations under the Refugee Convention and the European Convention on Human Rights on the Right to Seek Protection. If that right is to be effective, it cannot be said not to be fulfilled in a country entering into a contractual relationship with these obligations. Secondly, I am pleased that the majority also acknowledges the real situation, that it is not Norway that takes the greatest burden, but that it is the neighbourhoods and much poorer countries that are currently putting the greatest burden on refugees. I am also pleased that the majority say that the situation requires increased cooperation internationally, including in Europe, in order to meet the demanding task that is now, and that it is in Norway's interest for the future to become more, not less, cooperation and a better sharing of responsibilities between European countries involved in Schengen and Dublin cooperation. I very much agree with that. I can also refer to the letter of reply that came from the government to the committee during the discussion, which goes through the various points. I need to say something about the logic behind this: one is that there is a blatant breach of our obligations and the right to protection if life is threatened. The second is that the logic is completely limping. If it is not possible to apply for asylum at the border and if reception centres are to be established where asylum is not permitted, the right of asylum in principle has been removed. Neither is it allowed to apply for asylum at embassies, and you cannot legally travel, you do not get a visa. So the argument that you have to stop human trafficking by doing this doesn't hold true. This means that traffickers still need to be used to reach a limit, then to be returned to another country. This is unacceptable and the majority of the committee rejects the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e988	The Labour Party believes that today's asylum regime has more inhumane, unfair and less sustainable consequences. The Workers' Party wants to rotate away from a system which requires people to make death trips across the Mediterranean in order to apply for protection, and which uses considerable resources to process applications from people who do not have protection needs. The solutions of the working party are well known for this hall, and are also gravitated into this hall. However, Norway will never achieve the objective of a more equitable and sustainable asylum system through national policies alone. The low number of asylum arrivals in recent years is precisely due to European and international cooperation. In order to get asylum immigration into more controlled forms, we rely on mandatory international cooperation in several areas. It also involves European cooperation for strong control of the external borders of Schengen in order to control asylum immigration while maintaining free movement within the EEA and Schengen. The Labour Party believes that Europe has so far failed to find good and lasting solutions to common challenges related to immigration and migration, including fair burden-sharing mechanisms. The EU's New PACT on Migration and Asylum has not yet been dealt with in the EU Parliament, and thus there is no final agreement. The Labour Party believes, however, that if the EU agrees on an agreement whereby migration and asylum migration are regulated and controlled better than today, Norway should consider being part of this, provided that Norway retains national right of access and control — yes, provided Norway retains national right of access and control. The starting point of the Labour Party is that stronger European cooperation should mean that all European countries also take greater responsibility for accepting refugees through the UN quota system. Any agreement must also provide for the participation, predictability and better opportunity of having national control over the overall rate of immigration in the future, and it must strengthen and coordinate return work at European level.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e999	Norway is closely linked to the EU asylum and migration system through both Schengen and Dublin cooperation. It is important to clarify that we do not participate in the whole of the pan-European asylum system, the Common European Asylum System, but if the proposed pact is agreed in the EU, it will affect Norway both directly and indirectly – whether we take part in it or not. The right is in favour of the EU establishing a solidarity mechanism for EU countries. In this context, it is important to clarify that the Commission’s proposal does not mean that Norway or other Schengen countries are bound by the Pact, even if the representative Karin Andersen meant it. Norway will be free to offer contributions itself if it so wishes. For example, the Commission would like to strengthen partnerships with important third countries in order to prevent migration towards the EU's external border and to facilitate the return of migrants without any right of withdrawal. There is broad consensus that a well-functioning European asylum and migration system has led us to be able to protect the external borders and prevent irregular arrival of people. Nevertheless, the Right does not want us to be bound by EU asylum procedures in the future. In the case of Dublin legislation, the European Commission proposes a further development of the current criterion. Norway will have to accept that part of the pact if it still wants to cooperate with Dublin. Dublin cooperation is an important part of Norwegian asylum policy, and without Dublin cooperation, it will risk becoming responsible for asylum seekers who can now be transferred to other European countries. Such a development does not want the Right. We do not want to doubt this important cooperation, which is based on the Dublin agreement. Norway is obliged to provide human protection in refugees, but today's asylum system has great weaknesses, and in several areas it has failed to do so. UN calculations show that over 40 p.m. for migrants crossing the Mediterranean Sea, there is no need for protection. And there are not enough international solutions that distinguish between those with protection needs and other migrants. Return for those without protection is also poor international solutions. Right-wing think we can improve the asylum system in order to ensure that they are sustained with real protection needs. Norway has good experience at home, and contributing to European cooperation is also important for Norway. The EU can learn a lot from Norway, and there is good reason to show what we have done here. We have had faster procedures for asylum seekers, we have had faster returns, and we have had faster settlements in the municipalities. All in all, the government is handling asylum and refugee policy in an excellent way. The proposal from the Progress Party appears not to be relevant by today’s date, and as I see it, at worst, it can put the important Dublin cooperation at stake.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1014	Today's asylum system has gone down completely. It has gone from being a system that was meant to provide protection for political dissidents and actually persecuted persons, to becoming a system that moves great crowds of people across continents. People are lured into suffering and death in the hope of reaching Europe and the welfare society here. In the field of asylum policy, the Progress Party has always made proposals and initiatives which have been severely reduced by the others, but which have subsequently proved to be quite correct. During the asylum crisis in 2015, we were clear that Europe needed to improve its security of borders. You had to remove the rescue boats of the nations, and you had to start returning those that were picked up in the Mediterranean. For that we were strongly criticized, but in the months and years after we proposed it, exactly what the Progress Party proposed has been implemented. The result is that the changes that, among other things, save thousands of lives each year. The Progress Party proposed. It's not always that what there's a broad consensus about in this room is what's right and best for most people. In 2013, Australia had similar problems with increasing drowning rates among boat migrants seeking asylum in Australia. They did not sit still and look at it, as Europe does; they did exactly what the Progress Party is now proposing, and the result was that almost overnight all drownings of boat migrants who tried to seek asylum were removed. There were allegations from the representative Karin Andersen that we want to get away from the asylum system. The actual proposal of the Progress Party is to wind up the current practice of the asylum system. We are very clear that the obligations we have, the human rights obligations and the obligations under the refugee convention, we must take care of them. And so does Australia, but it can be done with a completely different practice. When Andersen says that we should not be able to apply for asylum in Norway, it is a misquote of our proposal, because we believe that it should not be possible to stay in Norway by applying for asylum at the border. If you apply for asylum at the border, you should return to an asylum centre outside Europe and have your rights respected there, just as Australia does without anyone being able to criticize them for breaking its obligations. Our proposal takes more into account, but the most important thing is that it takes care of the need to save as much human life as possible. I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1029	Then the representative Jon Engen-Helgheim brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1034	The Central Party will conduct a responsible and decent refugee and immigration policy based on our international commitments, humane traditions, recommendations from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and our national capacity. Norway is making a strong contribution today, both by receiving quota refugees and by receiving asylum seekers from Greece. Norway should also take its share of responsibility in relation to its population in the future. The EU Migration Pact has not yet been finalised in the EU Parliament and therefore there is no final agreement. So we are invited to decide on an agreement that we do not know what it means. It's basically pretty pointless. The Central Party believes that Norway must continue to have full sovereignty in asylum and immigration policy, and that Norway should cooperate closely with UNHCR on the basis of its own sovereignty. Norway has a tradition of taking our share of responsibility for this challenge, and we will continue to do so. The centre party has refused to transfer sovereignty to, among others. ACER, the EU Financial Supervision and the EU Railway Agency, and in this way it is right to say no to the waiver of sovereignty in the field of asylum and immigration. For example, the solidarity mechanism contained in the new proposal of the European Commission could involve an over-management of the Norwegian Asylum Institute and Norway’s cooperation with the UNHCR. Norway does not deserve the EU as a third player to interfere with the Norwegian refugee policy. The Central Party therefore supports the following proposals: ‘The government is asking the government to stop the process of further transfer of power to Acer, to start the reversal of the transfer of power to EU financial supervision and not to transfer power to the EU over asylum and immigration policy in Norway.’ Of course, Norway will continue to contribute in the future, but Norway should retain national law and control on the part of the Central Party. We will therefore vote in favour of proposal No. 1, as it is unclear whether such a pact will take care of it. This does not mean that Norway should not participate in discussions on fair burden-sharing mechanisms, but that Norway should retain national control. It is The Storting that will adopt our contribution based on national capacity. As regards proposal No: The Centre Party considers that Norway is obliged to provide protection to refugees and that the current asylum system ensures legal certainty and the need for authorities to examine whether the conditions for asylum have been met. Although we realize that there is room for improvement, the winding-up of the asylum system is not the way to go. The Progress Party has also promoted a loose proposal today asking the Government to conclude an agreement with Rwanda to establish asylum centres in third countries. The centre party will not support that proposal. To that, there are too many open questions. With that, I believe that the proposal of the Centre Party has been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1060	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1065	I am pleased that the Committee agrees with the government that Norway should abide by our obligations under the Refugee Convention and the European Convention on Human Rights, and that the majority believes it is in Norway's interest to continue working with our European partners. The challenges of asylum and migration must be addressed jointly. As the majority point out in the vote, it is absolutely necessary to find a good division of responsibilities between the countries participating in the Schengen/Dublin cooperation. However, this is a demanding work and the negotiations on the proposal for a new Asylum and Migration Pact will continue in the EU even after the summer. The proposers ask the government to ensure that Norway does not participate in the Pact, which would result in Norway withdrawing from Schengen and Dublin cooperation. As regards the solidarity mechanism, I would like to stress that Norway is not being proposed bound by this mechanism, as the proposal of the European Commission is now available. We are therefore free to assess for ourselves whether we should offer contributions on a voluntary basis. When there are final legal acts, the government will normally follow up with the Stortinget. Under our association agreements on Norwegian participation in Schengen and Dublin cooperation, Norway has to consider whether to accept the parts of the Charter that will be considered as Schengen and Dublin relevant. Today, Norway is obliged to provide protection to persons who fulfil the conditions for asylum and the current asylum system ensures both legal certainty and the control needs of the authorities. I agree that the asylum system has weaknesses, but resolving the system is not a solution. Our aim must be to improve the system, so that we become ever more secure that we provide asylum to individuals in need of protection and that those in need of protection are returned as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1078	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1084	The Council of State was a little concerned with what this agreement involves and does not involve, and it is right that a voluntary approach to the solidarity mechanism has been proposed. But now Norway always tends to be in the forefront and always the best in the class to fulfill the intentions of such agreements, and in the case of the solidarity mechanism, it can also mean, among other things, that. relocalisation. Relocalisation has taken place in Norway before. We relocated several thousand from Italy and Greece in 2016 and 2017, and there were many other European countries that participated. The result of this relocalisation was that the number of migrants in e.g. The Moria camp increased from approx. 3 000 in 2017 to many more in 2019. Does the Council of State see such relocalisation schemes as a decoy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1089	With regard to the solidarity mechanism, Norway is not bound by it. The government has said so far, as far as we know the content, that we are in favour of establishing a mechanism, but we do not make any concrete promises of contributions or participation in such a mechanism. There are many relationships around this that need to be clarified, and we need to know a lot more about that. It is true, as the representative says, that Norway has contributed to relocalisation on several occasions. At the same time, we have made it very clear that what we need is long-term, sustainable solutions. Driving and picking up someone here and someone out there outside the line of the United Nations Refugee Commissioner is not long-term, it's unsustainable. We do not know that those who come here have the right to asylum, and we have also said that it can give bad signals. We have contributed because we have thought that it has been necessary on some occasions, but we want other mechanisms. This one could be one like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1096	Thanks for the answer. I note that the Council of State sees that it can give unfortunate signals that you have a relocation system that takes asylum seekers from a press area and distributes around. That's the effect I tried to point out, which we probably saw after the relocation program in 2016 and 2017. It is strange that you are not more critical of an agreement that is based on much of the same. Now the Danish Social Democrats are working to reach an asylum agreement and, as I understand it, have signed an agreement with Rwanda. The important issue in such matters, which is also discussed in Denmark, is the extent to which people are involved in the human rights obligations by entering into asylum cooperation on a model from Australia. Then I would like to ask the Council of State if she believes that the track Denmark is in now is within the obligations we have under the Convention on Human Rights and the Convention on Refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1103	Some of the challenges with this are that the scope for action may need to be fully explored. We have not done so in Norway. I met my Danish colleague a few months ago, just to hear what they were working on, and how they worked. When I asked which countries were involved, it was difficult to point out. When I asked about the legal basis, it was difficult. So I see from the media that they've come a little bit further. I think there are legal, practical and also economic challenges in this. If you think that such a country exists, you also have to find out if you can legally process it abroad. What happens to those who may not be allowed to stay? There are a number of problems. My starting point and the government's starting point is that we should provide for as good a and quick a procedure here at home as possible. I think the establishment of advice has been very important. If we get a trial there in three weeks – where we can separate those who should be protected, from those who should not, and return those who should not – it will be the best solution both legally, economically and practically.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1110	Thanks for the answer. It's about finding out if it's possible to get something that I've heard from both Right-wing and Workers' Party representatives and several of those who are trying to have a proper approach to asylum policy – that it seems exciting to look at opportunities for asylum cooperation with countries outside Europe. But the last few weeks, on several occasions, the Council of State has replied very disgust that you want to go on with this. Based on the answer I got right now, it was that you have to explore this, you have to go into it to find out more – while the Council of State refuses to do anything more about it. Then I wonder, what is the reason why the Council of State so strongly refuses to go further on this track that can be reasonable in order to save as much human life as possible, without actually knowing what it involves, or whether it is possible, according to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1115	I am a little surprised at the media image given in this case. First of all, it's given the impression that we've finished a job. We don't have that at all. I have also replied – without coloring so much – that I believe that a system related to the fact that we treat as fast as we can when they reach the border with Norway is the best system. To think that someone comes to the border, and then we're going to transport someone out, then to place them in a third country, then to process, then to figure out what's going to happen to him if you don't have asylum status -- our starting point is at least that we think this is both heavy and expensive, and that we think it's legally difficult. So you can spend a lot of energy on it. We have said that we believe a system in which we quickly get the best possible procedure at advice is the best. Then we're told who's going to have help, and who's not going to have it. We get settled quickly, and we get returned quickly. All of this is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1120	The government says that they are basically positive to such a European agreement. But then it is important to know that such a European agreement is about asylum seekers – not quota refugees. That's what it does. So arguing like there's a contradiction where, as the Council of State did, becomes a little bit weird. Governments say they're looking for mechanisms to look at a fairer division of responsibilities. Then I would like to ask the Council of State what mechanisms Norway sees for it to be wise, if it is not supposed to be involved in relocalisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1127	I made a point that relocation by the input method, which is what we've done, is not good. It's not sustainable. That's not a good solution. That's not a good signal. Taking seriously the pressure that is at the external border of Schengen seriously means that there are major differences within the European Union, I believe that is important. That's why we're taking part in all these meetings. We participate in the debate, we are observers – or we participate in the debate to the extent that we are allowed to do so, but then because we are a Schengen member. I do not have an answer to what mechanisms, because it requires consensus in the European Union. It is demanding to conclude, and we see several challenges with the solution that has now been proposed. But I think it's natural to come back to Stortinget when we know more about what to find solution, and how Norway should approach it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1134	Relocalisation by means of the approach is not likely to be the case when both the countries, the UN High Commissioner and the EU have also requested, for example, that they be relocated. relocates more from Greece. I suppose that's what the Council of State is looking for. There is no input method. It is contrary to complying with requests based on a very critical situation. However, when the Council of State now says that Norway is taking part in these negotiations, Norway needs to have some sort of attitude to whether it is possible, for example, to take part in the negotiations. Sees that the system currently in place with the Dublin Agreement, where the first country becomes fully responsible, is a very unbalanced agreement which puts a much greater burden on some countries than on others. That is why SV has proposed that Norway take such initiatives in order to bring about a different type of division of responsibilities. Is that what the government's negotiating about?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1141	I mean clearly we can call it the input method. It occurs in the light of emerging situations and in order to resolve emerging situations. There's nothing sustainable about it. There's nothing long-term about it. And there's no system around it. This is what the EU is now trying to create. If they want to get there, we don't know. Norway does not participate in these cases simply because we are not considered to be covered by this. There is something we can decide when we know more of the content, and then we will do it after a thorough treatment both in government and in bulk. And that's how we have a system in Norway. We're a big contributor internationally. We are a great recipient of refugees internationally – we should be. We're dealing primarily with the quota refugee system, with a cooling system, where we've been interviewing and picking up people we know very likely to be entitled to stay. And we'll pick up a lot of people. We will continue to do that, and we believe it is positive that the EU is also discussing other challenges related to the Schengen external borders and solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1148	It's very special to hear that the Council of State and several others are now talking about sustainability in this. So, refugees, war, crisis and persecution are not sustainable. No one has claimed it, and situations arise – very serious situations arise. Then there's no way to imagine if someone's trying to contribute to a very critical situation. I think you have to use other words to help solve a critical situation, such as: Greece has suffered as a result of changes in the asylum policy in Europe, the EU-Turkey Agreement, and we have the Dublin Agreement which makes Greece responsible. Then it is not irrelevant or irrelevant when trying to relieve a very critical situation. Does the Council really believe that Norway could have endured a similar situation without asking for help when we should have?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1156	I think the representative just has to live with that we probably look a little different at this. I am concerned that we take our asylum responsibilities seriously. I am concerned that we are picking up and bringing people to Norway who need protection, and that we are treating them and integrating them in the best possible way. I'm because we're picking up a bigger share than the people who were strictly supposed to, and it's going to be real. What we don't want is to open up the boundaries of migration. That is what happens if you are not concerned with separating asylum seekers from migrants. Then you can have a different political view of this, but I have now replied to our view of asylum seekers and how we want to deal with it. Migration is going to happen, and it happens, and we saw an example of it in 2015 when we received 31,000 refugees. Many of them were migrants. They weren't asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1163	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1170	The SV has not called for migrants to be allowed to stay. Where did the Council of State get it? That's wrong. It is also wrong when the representative Trellevik says that I, as the rapporteur, have said that this EU agreement is binding. No, it's not at all. What I referred to is that Norway's agreement to the UN Convention on Asylum and the ECHR is binding on Norway. I really hope we agree on that. That's why a policy of asylum that some people play with the idea of is a violation of it. It actually writes the Council of State in a letter to the Stortinget. I really hope we wouldn't have to discuss that. I also hear that the Workers' Party has some sort of idea of how this should be resolved, in some structured way, but I do not see that the Workers' Party rather relates to the reality of those who seek asylum and are refugees. You're talking about this as if this is something we can decide in advance, but it's not. There are many errors with today's system, I agree with the Council of State. There's a lot of problems with that, but it doesn't get any better by making it worse. I'm quite upset, I must say, because you repeat and repeat that you do this to prevent people from dying on a dangerous flight. Today's strict rules make it impossible to apply for asylum at, for example, an embassy. You don't intend to make it possible to apply for a place abroad. On the contrary, according to the Progress Party, one must still go to the Norwegian border, seek asylum there, then be returned, and in many cases, as we have seen among those who have been returned to Libya because one has this agreement with the coastguard there, they must escape several times because they are sent back to refugee camps where there is forced labour, torture and slave labour. This is the reality. This round dance is not hindered by proposing what the Progress Party has proposed today, and what the Danish Government smells at. We should all like to find a solution that would have solved this easily, but I don't think that solution actually exists. But I think it is possible for Norway to fulfil its obligations, and I think it is possible for Norway to participate in European cooperation in this area without giving up sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1181	There are clearly examples of real refugees being pushed out on a dangerous journey. But if we look at the most dangerous route over the Mediterranean, which would like to start in Libya, then most of them come from countries from which there is no reason to flee. However, they do so because the asylum system in Europe attracts. As a result, the asylum system helps to lure people into suffering and distress. When we talk about the terrible conditions in Libya, that's absolutely right. There are very many people who would never have ended up unless the asylum system in Europe lured them there. The removal of the motive will also remove the basis, above all, for groundless asylum seekers who are in a majority position on the most dangerous route. It will help save human lives. It's likely to help save thousands of lives every year. The majority in this room want to build on a system that everyone has recognized has great weaknesses. You're going to build on strengthening those weaknesses, and the weaknesses are what I'm commenting on now, that people are being lured into a dangerous journey, occupying resources in the country of arrival that could have been used to help a lot more and prevent flight in the neighbourhoods to where there is actually war and conflict. This logic should not be so difficult to understand, and all experience shows that implementing more policy towards the Progress Party proposed here will meet much more needs. When we talk about relocalization, as we did in the line exchange, it is first of all that the Council of State has clearly refused to cooperate with Denmark or go further with the ideas suggested there, even though the Right Party has opened up to it. It is also true that even if a relocalisation scheme is put in place now through the proposals of the European Commission, it will function in exactly the same way as the approach of inception as the State Council of Malta called it so fine, because that is exactly what it is. A mechanism is likely to be put in place if there is a new asylum crisis – exactly what we did last time, exactly what led to more asylum seekers coming to Europe and not fewer, exactly what led to the Moria camp going from 3,000 to 13 000 – and not less, as the intention was.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1190	The reason for this was a large increase in the number of asylum-seekers in 2015 and beyond, and that, among other things, there was an increase in the number of asylum-seekers in 2015 and in the future. has increased in Moria, is mainly the war in Syria. It seems like you're not dealing with the fact that there's war in Syria. Neither in Afghanistan are the conditions just calm – to be honest. There's a lot of people running away from there. There are also many refugees from some other countries, for example. from Eritrea. So there are many who are real refugees. It must be the ones we take the most into account. The second is: if you want to prevent dangerous escape routes, you have to make it possible to apply for asylum without having to resort to this flight. You will not – the government will not, the Progress Party will not. Nor will it be lawful to travel, i.e. to get a visa to come to a country to seek asylum. Therefore, because you are not allowed to travel legally, you must use human traffickers. The war and persecution do not disappear, sail if people refuse to seek asylum in many different ways. There are many drowning in the Mediterranean now. Yes, several rescue operations are needed there – more search and rescue – to save the people who are taking refuge from Libya. If you know how bad it is on land there, you just have to understand that then it's worse than out there in that boat. They know they're at risk of their lives. It seems like you're not taking over here at all. Not everyone may have grounds for asylum, but the situation they've been in is so bad. And then you have to answer with not even saving people in distress at sea. To put it that way: it is a Norwegian tradition to do that, which I had hoped Stortinget would hold up. So to the proposal of the centre party: SV has not supported it. That doesn't mean we don't agree with what the Central Party says in this case, but we don't understand why they have mixed up several other issues in that proposal, including proposals that have been voted on before. The premise is completely wrong. Such an EU Charter is not binding. Norway is not obliged to participate in it. It's absolutely obvious. But it will be in Norway’s interest to try to be part of such an agreement if it is good. I really hope it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1201	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1218	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1225	So, as the president so pointed out, we're dealing with two things in less than one today. I would like to thank the Committee for doing so, and so save some time. So there's one Document 8 proposal from the Progress Party and one proposal from the government, both of which deal with citizenship. For this reason, the Committee has chosen to deal with these two groups. The document 8 deals with proposals for a new citizenship criterion, and so does the government's proposition. Norwegian citizenship legislation is based on the principle of descent and citizenship is acquired by birth, adoption, application or notification. Norwegian citizenship grants rights as voting rights and electoral rights, as well as other fundamental rights, such as the right to stay, the right to work in the kingdom and the right to have a passport. However, most of the rights of the Nordics are not linked to citizenship, but need to be re-established in other ways. The proposal proposes to increase the retention period from seven to eight years when applying for citizenship under the general rule of the Civil Code § 7, first paragraph, point (e). At the same time, it is proposed to introduce an exemption for recognised refugees, so that the requirement will be passed on to this group after the current legal period of seven years. The proposal also includes proposals to introduce an exemption clause in the Civil Code with shorter requirements for the retention period of adequate income seekers. For these applicants, the proposal provides for a six-year suspension period in Norway over the last 10 years, with a residence period of at least one year. The proposal proposes changes to the integration laws §§ 32 and 33, on the scope and number of hours of training in Norwegian and social knowledge. The majority in the Committee believe these legislative proposals will help immigrants to become more involved in the labour market and economically independent, and through this previously well integrated and part of Norwegian society. It's only the Progress Party that has its own suggestions, and I think they'll do the right thing for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1246	In Norway, a large number of new citizenships are granted annually. There is often good reason to compare with other countries to see how we are. I took a look at the numbers in Denmark and Norway. In Denmark in 2019, which was the last numbers I found on the move, they granted 571 citizenships. In comparison, Norway granted 10 422 Norwegian citizenship. There's a very big difference, and there's no reason for that difference to be so high. Even if we look at the figures historically, Norway is far above the country like Denmark. There are a number of other European countries that have seen alarming developments in this field and want to tighten up. There is no good reason for people with a loose relationship with Norway to have Norwegian citizenship. It seems that there is a broad consensus that a Norwegian citizenship should hang high, but there is little in the legislation that suggests that it is serious, since so many citizenships are distributed each year. In the government's proposal on this matter, there are some steps in the right direction, for example. by increasing living conditions. It supports the Progress Party. However, the creation of new derogations does not support the Progress Party. There should be no derogation according to the reason for coming to Norway. We really support the idea of adding revenue as part of the criteria, just that the government has done a little bit opposite to what we do in our proposals. The government has made it an exceptional requirement, to say the least, while the Progress Party proposes that it should be a criterion for getting Norwegian citizenship to have been self-sufficient in the last five years, that there has been no social support, for example. This is important to help strengthen the working line, and it is important to contribute to the sustainability of the Norwegian immigration policy. It is good that the government and the majority see that the idea can be good, and recognize it as an instrument, but you have to go much further. Then we have a big problem – or we can have a big problem. We therefore propose that children born abroad with Norwegian mother or father should have an active and permanent relationship with the Norwegian parent in order to automatically claim Norwegian citizenship. It's directly related to the situation we're dealing with, for example. has seen in Syria. I therefore take up the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1261	The representative, Jon Engen-Helgheim, has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1266	The central party believes it is important that we have a high predictability both in asylum and immigration policy and in integration policy. That's why the Central Party has taken the initiative on the similarities we've established here in the Stortinget, and that's why I'm also pleased that there's a broad majority behind the decisions that are being taken here today. I Prop. 130 L for 2020-2021, the Government proposes to raise the requirement to stay from seven to eight years in the event of an application for citizenship under the general rule of the Civil Code. At the same time, it is proposed to introduce an exemption provision for recognised refugees in order to continue the requirements of the applicable right of seven years' residence for that group. Finally, a derogation is proposed in the Civil Code on shorter residence requirements for applicants with sufficient income. The central party believes that the legislative changes will help immigrants to participate more fully in the labour market, become economically independent and, through this, become more rapidly part of the Norwegian society. The centre party therefore supports the proposals. With regard to the proposals of the Progress Party, we do not support the requirement that children be dependent on being associated with and associated with a biological parent who has Norwegian citizenship. We believe that children should not suffer from the choice of civil status of their parents and that there should be no requirement other than that the parent should comply with the Children's Act. With regard to proposals Nos. 2 and 3, on income requirements, it seems almost as if the proposers do not take on board the fact that those who come have incredibly different ballasts. Those who stay in Norway are everything from well-trained to illiterate. They have different abilities to participate in the labour market and to acquire language skills, they have different health status, etc. It must also be ensured when applying for citizenship. We are not going to support those proposals, nor are they going to propose 4, where they are asking the government for a legislative proposal requiring that they have contributed to the integration of spouses, partners or children into Norwegian society, and that self-government be actively prevented. As it is today, it is a language requirement, and that is to the benefit of the applicant that relatives contribute as much as possible to the best possible language training.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1279	SV does not support these restrictions in the citizens' law, and I do not think the council and her party would have done so if she had not been in government. This is justified by better integration, but it is impossible to read what all the hearing bodies, almost collectively, say: This leads to poorer integration. I could read them all, but I think my speaking time would have been used up if I had read all the statements from the hearing bodies that have said that. They believe that this will have a negative impact on integration. And it doesn't change much now that you go from seven to eight years – and not ten years, which was at the hearing. I can mention that, for example. UDI ‘provides that the rules on increased residence requirements will lead to more applicants becoming in a situation where they will have to opt out of study and career opportunities in order to have the opportunity to acquire Norwegian citizenship in the future’. That must be undesirable. IMDi, a professional body in the field, says they don't know that it ‘there is research or other evidence to suggest that an increased residence requirement for the acquisition of Norwegian citizenship is positive for integration. The IMDi also refers to an OECD overview showing a positive correlation between naturalisation’ — i.e. citizenship — ‘and participation in the labour market and several studies showing a positive link between naturalisation and integration in different European countries’. [[...]] The IMDI also indicates that if you are given voting rights and are eligible for elections, it can ‘increase the participation of immigrants in society, which is also an integration policy objective’. If you are concerned that many immigrants can do too little Norwegian, or not get a job, you should be concerned about closing the gap between the skills of immigrants and what is demanded in working life, for that is what works – and not setting up more barriers to obtaining citizenship. An income requirement is also set up which will only be those with relatively moderate income and above what can pass the requirement. It has been a long time since we in Norway had income requirements for voting rights. I would also like to say that there are many immigrants who have small and temporary jobs. It makes this difficult, so you better look at it. And finally, I see that the Progress Party also wants to make children stateless. At least I'm glad that the Storting is against, and doesn't give up on that gall. Parents are held responsible for what they do, but children shall have rights in any event.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1306	Integration is about acceptance, respect, humanity and tolerance for what is different. Integration is about giving and taking and getting acquainted with new people. It's about stretching out a hand and being a guide to new arrivals and new settlers. Integration is about interpersonal relationships, about warmth and love. In practice, integration is about being included in the community. Integration can start with the individual, but also generally with the wider community — and specifically with systematic measures that do not focus on obstacles but find opportunities. Here I believe the government has succeeded. I would like to emphasise that an important part of the assessment of the introduction of new citizenship law in 2006 was that children should not suffer from the choice of civil status of their parents. This is an important principle we must not deviate from. I am therefore pleased that the result of the government's proposal to reduce the requirement for a residence period for persons with sufficient income will be that some children applying for Norwegian citizenship as a co-person to their parents will be able to get it at an earlier date than under current law. It is good to be part of a government that takes its own assessments of the child's best interests in matters promoted by Stortinget. Here, too, this government shows that they do not see obstacles, but opportunities related to the most important relational unit we have in society, namely the family. Finally, I would like to point out that when it is now proposed to raise the requirement of residence from seven to eight years after the general rule on the acquisition of citizenship on application, it is worth noting a few important exceptions: A derogation is proposed, as mentioned above, for applicants with income above a certain level. For those concerned, a six-year stay in Norway shall be required. It is very important for, for example: families with children. A derogation is also proposed to continue the requirement for a seven-year residence period for recognised refugees. This is an important aspect of this matter. With these exceptions, the Christian People's Party supports the adoption today of changes in the law to abolish the residence requirement for citizenship. I support this committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1326	For the Workers' Party, the individual's ability to get a job and to support himself and his family is the most important objective of integration policy. Norwegian citizenship shall be high and contribute to good integration at the same time. Citizenship has entered the heart of the nation-state. It's a visible proof of who you are and where you belong. Norwegian citizenship confers rights as voting rights and eligibility for election in addition to other fundamental rights such as the right of residence, the right to take up work in the Kingdom and the right to hold passports. Overall, we believe that the changes in the laws of the government that we are discussing today will help immigrants to participate more fully in the labour market, to become economically independent and to become more clearly part of Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1333	Norwegian citizenship has an important symbolic meaning by marking its belonging to Norwegian society and its basic values. Citizenship also gives important rights and obligations that affect the participation of citizens in Norwegian society. There is an explicit wish on the government platform that Norwegian citizenship should hang high. The government also wants to ensure that those who become Norwegian nationals have an adequate link with Norway and to contribute to the greater participation of immigrants in the labour market, become economically independent and through this earlier participation in Norwegian society. I propose to raise the requirement to stay from seven to eight years after the general rule on the acquisition of citizenship upon application. I propose an exception, so that the requirement for seven years' residence is continued for recognised refugees. I also propose an exception for applicants with income above a certain level. For these, a six-year stay shall be required in Norway. Compared to the rest of the population, immigrants have lower living conditions, lower income, lower employment rates, lower job security, more temporaryity and a higher proportion of the unemployed, and there is a lower proportion who own their own dwelling. The reasons for this are complex and there are several barriers to the participation of immigrants in working life. Examples of barriers are lack of education or language skills, health challenges and discrimination in working life. Many immigrants are motivated for work and to support themselves, but for different reasons outside the workplace. There is a need for a broad approach and for more measures to work together to increase the level of employment. This legislative proposal is thus one of several measures to help achieve the objective. The exemption for applicants with sufficient income must be seen in the context of better qualification and training measures, anti-discrimination measures in the labour market, measures to encourage employers to raise awareness of diversity as a resource, and measures to improve and strengthen skills and labour market measures. I am pleased that the majority of the committee supports the proposals. I propose changes to the Integration Act on the scope of hours of training in Norwegian and social knowledge. In a new curriculum, the number of hours of social education is increased from 50 to 75 hours. I propose to legislate that participants carry out 75 hours of community education. Some participants are only obliged to participate in training in Norwegian and social sciences and have to pay for the training themselves. To avoid this group having to pay for more hours of training than today, I suggest reducing the number of hours of training in Norwegian from 250 to 225 hours. So the total number of hours is still going to be 300 hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1349	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1354	The Council of State also argues with greater integration as a reason for this strong tightening of the ability to achieve citizenship. In my statement I referred to the statements that have come to the matter from the professional bodies, and among other things. that the IMDi indicates that there is no research evidence to claim that increased residence requirements may be positive for integration. They also refer to an OECD overview showing a positive correlation between citizenship and integration. I wonder what is the reason why the government does not take into account what is research and experience-based knowledge in this area, but continues to take into account the Progress Party, as a more important purpose, even if the Advance Party is out of government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1361	I think it's worth clarifying that the hearing opinions went on a proposal to raise the residence time to ten years. We've listened to many of the recordings that came to the hearing, and the country on a solution that I think is better for integration, and that at the same time contributes to the change we want. The fact that we now have a differentiation between those who have an increased degree of dependability and those who are the most vulnerable, namely the refugees, and those who have to wait longer, I think is a good and balanced solution. I do not share the representative's description that this is a very big change. We go from seven to eight years for a good deal, but a lot of people will also be able to reach the dependant requirement, which means that they get shorter residence time than today, which is six years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1366	I think it can be concluded that in the hearing opinions that have come, one would say the same thing whether it was eight, nine or ten years. There's nothing in the reasons there that says it's differentiated on it. They say that increased residence requirements are not good for integration. And when these requirements are not good for integration, it could mean that fewer will reach the level of income that the Council of State now mentions, and therefore have such an opportunity. It's also a little hard to understand why citizenship is so much linked to income, that you have to have a better citizenship if you have a well-paid job than if you have an important but poorly paid job. What is the principle, value-based basis for such sorting of people by income level?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1373	I notice that the representative chooses to focus on the group for which we increase the requirement for living, but there is also a significant group for which we lower the requirement for living from seven to six years. After the numbers we have today, it's probably up to 60 pst. which seems to be likely to meet the requirements we are making for self-sufficiency. In other words, there is a significant proportion that gets shorter time before they can get citizenship. In the case of self-sufficiency, it is already a condition for the acquisition of citizenship that the applicant fulfils the conditions for permanent residence permits under the Foreign Affairs Act. There is also a need to comply with the conditions laid down in the Foreign Affairs Act and the regulations on self-sufficiency, and therefore this is already indirectly a requirement under the general rule of the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1380	The Council of State stated that citizenship confers both obligations and rights. What obligations?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1385	Well, you have to meet a lot of requirements in order to get citizenship, as it is today. Among other things, there is a need to: pass a test showing some knowledge and, in order to meet the requirements of a residence permit, it is also necessary to demonstrate that you have the ability to support yourself. It's among the duties you have. Otherwise, I would say that all citizens of a society have some duties. This applies regardless of how you have acquired your citizenship – whether you have received it by being born here, or whether you have acquired it for a long time. It's about duty to participate; I mean everyone who's a citizen of society has. And then you might have a little bit of different ways of fulfilling those obligations, but that's what I'm thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1392	I thank you for the answer, but that is not an answer. With regard to the obligations you have, that you commit to participate in society: if you don't participate, you lose your citizenship? I don't quite understand what the Council of State is getting at. I understand that you can talk about this in general, about duties to learn Norwegian and duties for one and the other, but there are no consequences. Is it true that if you don't integrate, you lose your citizenship? Do you lose your citizenship if you don't learn Norwegian? Is citizenship lost if you don't want to be part of Norwegian society? Then I would assume that there is a part that should actually lose its citizenship quite quickly. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1399	Now, as I said, if you're not born in Norway and you get it that way, you have to meet a lot of requirements to get a citizenship. You have to, for example, could be Norwegian at a relatively high level. Then no one checks five years later if you still know Norwegian, but that's the requirement. I have to say that I am very happy that we are living in a society where your fundamental rights in democracy are not something you risk losing based on some of the demands we have on how we want citizens to be in that society. I think you're a citizen first, you're a full-fledged citizen of Norwegian society. Just as neither the representative Tybring-Gyde nor the undersigned has to prove that we are worthy members of this society, neither does it have to apply to people who have been granted citizenship by other means.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1406	The chord change is over, and we take a break in the debate to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1418	The size is then ready to go to voting in case No. 115 and No 115 28 on today's map, agenda no. Ninety-nine.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1430	Case No. 1 is the second time the law is handled and the law is governed by Law 119. During the debate, the Helge Place has presented a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: Roman numeral I is assumed to be replaced by the following: 4 in the case of road traffic is amended as follows: the sixth paragraph of Section 6 is replaced by the following: the speed limits do not apply to competition, training for competition or other organised driving which, with the permission of the State Road Service, is held on a separate track or road which is closed for all other traffic. The road authority of the State may impose conditions in the permit in accordance with the purpose of the law. Paragraph 7(c) is added as follows: § 7(c). Driving on closed or other restricted areas The Ministry may lay down rules on running on closed or other restricted routes, including detailed authorisation rules, on the organisation and implementation of such driving, and on insurance. Roman numeral II shall be presumed to be replaced by the following: The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1449	Several have voted incorrectly, we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1461	The Note to Legislative Decision 119 is hereby attached. The legislative decision, together with the adopted note, will be reviewed until the third time in a later Stortinget meeting. Case No. 2–13 is the second processing of legal acts and liabilities under the laws of 122–133. There is no comment suggestion. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been accepted for the second time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1479	During the debate, Dag Terje Andersen presented a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Ministry of Defence’s handling of the case under State Council Ine Eriksen Soreide’s leadership is of the opinion that it was highly critical.’ The centre party, the environmental party Dei Green and Red have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1518	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1586	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1597	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1677	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1682	I will refer to the exchange of lines on obligations and rights to citizenship. We often talk about the duties and rights of a Norwegian citizenship, but as the exchange of replys showed, once you have acquired a Norwegian citizenship, there are very few obligations, and so it might be. But you have to be honest about what you're really talking about here. You get many rights, no obligations, and then it's important to have a sustainable policy on how many citizenships you have to grant each year. When the Progress Party calls for tightening up the demands for Norwegian citizenship, we often get criticism that it will be so strict that fewer will do it. Yes, it's your intention. The aim is to reduce Norwegian citizenship because too many with a low or loose connection to the state today get it. The problem is not to live in Norway without a Norwegian citizenship. You can live a full life in Norway without Norwegian citizenship, but the problem starts when we give citizenship to people who shouldn't have it. We've been given a few examples of how to be demanding. When we propose in our proposal in Document 8 that children born abroad must have a permanent relationship with the parent who gives rights to Norwegian citizenship, we do not think about the choice of civil status. However, if a child born abroad has never met his or her Norwegian father or mother, has never had any relationship with his or her Norwegian father or mother, or has never been to Norway and knows no one in or from Norway, there is little reason to grant them citizenship. Nor is it right, as the representative Andersen said about our proposal, that people or children will be made stateless. It would, in these cases, by all likelihood, be another parent from another country that gives the child a citizenship. That is a bad argument against our proposal. Another of our proposals, to contribute to the integration of their neighbours, are referred to by the representative of Mr Greni. It is not right that there is a requirement today. Today, for example, a father in the family is working, being integrated, learning Norwegian and participating in society, while actively preventing the rest of the family, or parts of the family, from doing so. It is a serious problem with this self-elected segregation that we want to live by tightening up the criteria, by also taking initiatives to integrate the family in order to get Norwegian citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1693	To the last post: In my view, it is very difficult to control such a proposal. If anyone prevents their families and their children from participating in society, society must intervene, and at a much earlier time than when it is relevant to apply for citizenship. The right to citizenship is important because it obliges the States. This is why Norway has also committed itself to working against statelessness, whether we are now in national policy, through several crossroads, have gone the opposite way in terms of being able to deprive some of its citizenship. This of excluding children who have a Norwegian parent but have not been to Norway can contribute to statelessness. There's a way to punish children for something their parents do, which SV deeply disagree with. I am very pleased that the majority here do not agree with the Progress Party in this. But to the matter itself. I have now, repeatedly, asked both the government and the government parties how they put forward their claim that increasing living requirements could lead to better integration. There has been no demonstrable research or any kind of evidence that it is. On the contrary. We have documented, and the hearing bodies have demonstrated that we are at risk of doing the opposite. That means that this is enough as the Progress Party says; a desire for fewer people to have citizenship. I think that is a very unwise approach to people who are going to live in this country, because it is not that you can get citizenship if you have a loose connection to the country, as it is said here. You don't get that. These are people who have permanent residence permits, and who are supposed to live here for the rest of their lives, and then it's a question of whether it's an advantage that those people have citizenship, or that they don't have citizenship. I record that a majority here believes it's better if things go on for a long time, and you might prevent integration, in order to scare someone, while SV thinks it's much better that we give a citizenship without making these demands, which will distinguish between those who are healthy and have the opportunity to get a well-paid job, and those who don't have it. We believe that this is a good principle to deal with citizens in a country after.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1706	I took the floor because I think it is important to clarify that this matter is part of a larger whole of government policy, both in terms of integration in general, and in terms of citizenship. I don't think anyone here in the hall believes that one thing alone, as raising the demand from seven to eight years, in itself gives better integration. I haven't said that, and I haven't really heard many others say that, either, but to see it in conjunction with several other things you do, I would claim to be able to contribute to better integration, among other things. that we now both provide better training in Norwegian and demand higher levels of competence. And then it's also worth mentioning in this context, I think it's not like the government is running a policy that makes it fewer Norwegian citizens. In recent years, there has been a sharp increase in the number of applications to become Norwegian nationals. By 2020, there was an increase of 49 pst. Then there was a record 19 700 citizenship that was granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1713	The representative Karin Andersen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1718	All the reasons given by both the government and the majority here in the Chamber have been that this should improve integration, and that immigrants should become more involved in the labour market, become economically independent and, through it, become a part of Norwegian society in the past. It's in the notes. That has been the whole argument. Parts of the government has done in the field of integration, inter alia: in the law of introduction and changes there, have been good; some steps have gone in the right direction. But this doesn't. To count now and say that there will be so many new citizenships – yes, but that is among other things. because we have allowed dual citizenship, and also that many of the refugees who have been here for a long time, and have lived here for a long time, can apply for citizenship. I guess it's good that those who are going to live here can have citizenship and participate in society. That's why it's inappropriate, what the government is now proposing: to raise the threshold for someone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1725	The representative, Andersen, has so many strange ways to deal with the issues. Among other things, she says that unanimous hearing bodies agree with her. Maybe you should then rush a little bit over why it is like that. Why isn't there a single instance that means anything else? Has the representative, Andersen, thought about it? Or does she think it's balanced? These are organisations that live under state aid, which are paid by you and me. Perhaps it is one of the problems — that there is no balance, that you get some courage and some for at a hearing. It reminds me a little about assistance hearings. Absolutely everyone who meets wants more assistance and thinks it's a brilliant idea. Not one grievance. What has happened to our democracy when it is that way? Why isn't anyone going in and saying, "We can't have it like that." We have to get a balance in our democracy when it comes to the recordings that are coming. And to Andersen, a well-paid job, what is it? A job that can support your family is what you're after. A well paid job – if it is the remuneration of the deposit representatives of NOK 900000, it is 1 million. Is that $800,000? No, it's that you can take care of your family. And there's nothing wrong with that. It is natural for you to demand that you support your own family. If you go back a little bit in time, it would have been unimaginable to stand there and discuss whether you should support your own family. But it's now controversial. I don't know where to start, but at least I know when to stop, and that's now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1734	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1751	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1758	This is a proposal for a representative, and two proposals were made in that document. The Committee has examined this matter and has also asked the Council of State for an assessment of the proposals, and that letter is attached to the matter. The Committee further points out that the proposal concerns several departments, which are then responsible for the various safeguards provided for in the proposal for a representative. So the law of nature diversity and the protection under the Culture Memory Act is in the Ministry of Climate and Environment, while the law of the soil is in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The majority of the Committee has said in its comments that it is of course important to work to stop the loss of species and habitat types and to preserve biodiversity. The majority also believe that the various safeguards are important for the sustainable management of Norwegian nature. I don't think I should say so much more about this matter. There are other parties that have different proposals in the matter, and I assume that they will explain their proposals and their views.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1769	It is important to maintain different species and nature types and take care of the biological deficiency. The protection features are the very foundation of a resilient management of Norwegian nature. At the same time, it is also important to maintain a good balance with private ownership. It is protected by the Basic Law § 105. The former, who have been in force since 1814, states that the person who is deprived of his property must have full compensation. When the proposers here want a critical review of the rights of protection, this is a work of different departments, as the case-speaker mentions. In the Right we believe that this proposal must be seen in conjunction with the issues already dealt with by Stortinget, with the division of tasks between municipalities, county councils and state authorities in the context of both the local reform and regional reform. We can't see that at this point there is a need for a new review of the distribution of problems. The Planning and Building Act is a good way to coordinate land use treatment through planning, which is also referred to by the proposers. There are a lot of concerns to be addressed, from ensuring soil resources, landscape quality and cultural environment to sustaining social developments in municipalities and regions. Decisions under the Planning and Building Act shall ensure coordination between the different laws. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation is following up the EVAPLAN, where the government assesses whether changes can be made that lead to better coordination and cooperation between government, regional and municipal administrations. The Ministry of Climate and Environment is also working on a new cultural environment law, where the issue of cost recovery in archaeological work is being distributed. It is important that social development does not become at home by unnecessary red tape. The builders shall meet an efficient and user-friendly public administration that is busy with results and implementation. When it comes to a concrete identification of the protection property as a liability, and where they are geographically, I would like to mention that the Staten Kartverk through its web portal geonorge.no provides a very good overview of the various mapped and agreed protection areas. These are data that can be downloaded for free, so that each developer can find a good overview of what is contained in the protected values of his property.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1788	Norway is facing a time when more needs to be built. That's good. This must include, inter alia: more than one dwelling should be built, and the right of ownership should be emphasised in this respect. The business community must be able to establish itself, and it must be able to develop without too many unforeseeable building regulations. This proposal sets out a number of safeguards, but it has been and has been impossible to identify all of them, which are one of the reasons why we need a screening and a clean-up and, not least, a simplification. Proposals are concerned with simplifications in the Law on Planning and Building and with local democracy. With this proposal, we want to draw attention to the importance of building up bureaucratic barriers to value creators and to ordinary people. The first safeguard provisions in Norway were put in place in 1910. After that, there has been an inflation of protective provisions, to the extent that no one can now explain how many protective provisions we operate on in sum. Only in the law, we count 3,100. This is in addition to municipal and county regulations and provisions of the Sameting. Ambitious safeguards also provide the State administrator with a margin of discretion on objections, which is very unfortunate for ownership and not least for local self-government. The proposers – and leave no doubt – are of the opinion that Norway should continue to preserve the country’s fantastic nature, with mountains, forests, historical cultural memories and beach areas. However, the fact that this is carried out in the best possible way with a clean-up and critical review of protective provisions is our conviction. A diluted and overregulated system is not a good system. That is why it is high time that we cleaned up and reviewed critically the safeguards we have affected in the proposal. With this I address our proposals and the proposal we are part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1805	The representative of Kjell-Børge Freiberg has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1810	Like the majority, the Centre believes that it is important to work to stop the loss of species and habitat types — and not least to take care of biodiversity and untouched nature. That is why, among other things: believes that the different safeguards are important for good management of nature. At the same time, I would like to stress that the Centre Party believes that some protection proposals and already introduced protection can be dealt with in a better way than today: better local anchoring, management and participation. Today's way leads to unnecessary noise and sometimes to inefficient protection, or, as the previous speaker said, we do not get to the desired social development. I would therefore also like to stress that more attention needs to be paid and the different benefits and disadvantages must be weighed against each other by the introduction of different protections. In particular, it is necessary to consider whether remedial measures can be taken. That's why I look forward to seeing what the government concludes with proposals as part of the follow-up of NOU 2018: 11 on new mountain law and evaluation of the planning and building law. In this context, there will be a need for the Storting to have a comprehensive overview of the protection provisions introduced in Norway. That's why we're behind a proposal for such a mapping. Then we get back to what changes may be necessary to achieve our objectives of more appropriate protection. It is therefore also interesting to see the proposal for a new cultural memory law in that context. In view of new cultural heritage laws, the centre party has been concerned that required archaeological excavations on private property must be covered by the State. Then a more detailed assessment of what is required for protection and excavation. The reason is that not everyone has financial muscles to cost themselves. For some it will mean that you don't get what you want, and for society as a whole it will mean that we don't get the social development we want. It's unwise. I note that the majority, including the Advance Party in this context, indicates that the government will assess the fee regulation related to archaeological studies triggered by private initiatives. It's too weak and a little eye-catching considering the speeches of the previous speaker. I therefore also find reason to refer to our comments and suggestions at the Innst. 239 S for 2020-2021 on rights of objection in planning and land-use matters – and not least a number of other issues that the Committee has addressed in recent years, also recently. With that, I'm taking up the proposal from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1825	The representative Wilfred Norlund has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1830	The safeguard provisions are there to ensure important considerations. The loss of nature takes place at a great pace in the world and also in Norway. Every five species in Norwegian nature are more or less at risk of dying if you don't do anything. Large parts of this natural and species diversity loss and this degradation occur piece by piece, with no one overseeing the values that are lost. At the same time, land changes threaten over 80 pst. of the endangered species in Norway. This has been pointed out by the National Audit Office, and they have also pointed out that nature loses in terms of objections to these cases because, in more and more cases, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation does not take into account the objections raised by the State. This national audit report also demonstrated that the use of the opposition institute as a tool for national interests management has been tightened up. There may well be grounds for coordinating such objections – this has been the case for SV. But the problem now is that the loss of nature and species is moving fast and continues because neither natural diversity has been identified nor has the necessary competence around all municipalities to care for important concerns in these processes. I'm also quite sure that if you had the whole basis of fact and competence in place, these safeguards would also be easier to deal with, and the procedure would go faster. Therefore, there is a need to review these provisions, and the government has said that they should. It must then be in order not just to make things easier, but simply to make sure that there is competence and knowledge in place, and that the processes take care of what everyone is saying, namely biodiversity, the endangered species and the areas of the community, such as the coastal zone and the nearby open-air areas. It's incredibly important to build more dwellings, as the representative of the Progress Party was up and talking about, that we build them in such a way that it becomes good residential areas that meet the needs that man has, without destroying the natural basis around us. We do not support the proposals of the Progress Party, and we will come back to this when dealing with other issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1841	The government is engaged in good coordination between land management and protection laws. That is why we have strengthened coordination between departments in this field. I notice that the representatives consider the Planning and Building Act to be a good tool for sustainable land management. This means, among other things: taking into account soil protection, natural diversity, landscapes and the cultural environment. All municipalities shall have protruding spatial plans that balance use and protection. This makes the Planning and Building Act a central law to ensure environmental values. National and regional protection is also ensured by various sectoral laws, such as the Nature Diversity Act and the Cultural Memory Act. Area protection under the Nature Diversity Act is the main means of long-term conservation of nature across sectors. Today’s policy on the natural and cultural environment has been joined by the size of the population through the treatment of, among others: the 2016 nature diversity Communication and the 2020 Communication on the Environment for Culture. In the context of the local and regional reform, Stortinget has dealt with the division of tasks between municipalities, county councils and state authorities. In my opinion, there is no need for a new review of the division of tasks now. Through its map portal, geonorge.no, the State's mapping works provide a comprehensive overview of proposed and adopted protection areas. It is available to all and used in planning. We therefore have a good overview of protection areas in Norway and the legislation in force. I therefore do not see the need to start work on re-monitoring or reviewing the safeguards, as the representatives propose. The main principle of the Planning and Building Act is that comprehensive and knowledge-based planning reduces conflicts between different considerations. Conflicts with archaeological cultural memories can often be avoided by alternative location of actions. The starting point of the Cultural Memory Act is that automatically preserved archaeological cultural memories should be unspoiled as a knowledge resource for future generations. In cases where excavating is required, the general rule is that proposers cover expenditure. This is in line with the principle that the action holder should cover the costs of the necessary investigations. In the case of less private measures or where there are specific reasons, the Cultural Memory Act states that the State shall cover, in whole or in part, the costs of studies, including excavating. The Ministry of Climate and Environment is now drafting a new Cultural Environment Act to replace the 1978 Cultural Memory Act. The question of cost recovery for archaeological works, including excavation, is addressed in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1852	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1858	I thought I'd challenge the Council of State on what's going to happen in the future. I agree that the Planning and Building Act has essentially served us well, but we are nevertheless in a situation where we now feel the tragedy of the general public on the body. UN Special Panel on Biomangfold, etc. has pointed out that land use is one of the most important resources in the event of loss of biodiversity and natural habitats, and we are unable to do so, even with a society as well regulated as we do in Norway. This is also a challenge for Norwegian society. In the area we're discussing, we get this at the head, because the area is absolutely a limited resource and has great economic consequences for the individual who can go across the Community's interests. My question to the Council of State is: How does the Council of State think it will address this issue in the future? How are we going to solve the tragedy of the general public in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1865	Fortunately, I believe that we have a good system of how to deal with different interests in the Norwegian society, including in terms of land-use planning. The Planning and Building Act is one of the most important tools we have to do it. I think we have to start this discussion by admitting that there are different interests. Yes, we must take care of natural diversity, it is incredibly important. We need to take care of, for example: good food and cultural memories. At the same time, we should not lower the cheese lid across the country. I don't think anyone deserves that. We need to be able to protect also through use and have a sensible approach to how we manage the land, where we both manage to harvest and at the same time manage to preserve for future generations. And this balance we have to find locally, regionally and nationally. The Planning and Building Act lays the framework for this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1874	I don't think I disagreed with a single word that the Council of State said in its answer, but it wasn't an answer to the challenge he got. There is no one in this room, I think, who is interested in lowering an osteoclast down across the country and preserving us as it is today, forever. If we go specifically to Hardin, who formulated the tragedy of the general public, he described two exits of this. One was a substantive change in attitudes, where we actually put the interests of the community ahead of the individual. Unfortunately, it is not the Council of State. But the other way out, the Council of State, is explicit political decisions to safeguard the interests of the community, that is, of the general public, even in cases where it can be seen that individual actors harm themselves by giving short-term priority to their own interests. I agree with that balance, but how do we proceed – despite the good tools we have? We agree that the Planning and Building Act has served us well, but not well enough. What is the Council of State's response to the challenge that is now being updated, such as: U.N.'s description?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1881	I believe that we have managed to manage the general public and the public's interests in a very good way in Norway. And yes, there are always improvement points and areas where we can do it even better. But we're actually pretty good at balancing these considerations. Take, for example: Our maritime administration, which is being promoted as a maritime administration that other countries look at, because we have just the art of balancing different interests. The fact that we have both fishing industry and aquaculture and a side-by-side oil and gas industry is an example that we get it, and the natural value, the ecological state, in our marine areas is also much better than most other places. The same applies to the balancing of different interests on land. It's not perfect, but I think we have a much better starting point than others, and we've done this together for many decades in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1886	It might have been interesting to discuss the state of health of some of our marine areas, but I won't. On the other hand, I will ask the Council of State for something else. There's been a lot of research that shows that there's a lot of nature under threat, bit by bit. Among other things, the study was called EVAPLAN, which we are still waiting for to follow up. One of the things it stated was that there was a lack of knowledge in a lot of municipalities that would manage all this legislation. The Council of State said in its statement that he would rely on knowledge-based planning. For several years SV has called for us to make demands on this competence to be found in the local government sector, but the government has opposed it. There were such demands before. What is the reason for opposing or demanding such competence in the local government sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1895	The government is not at all against the existence of that competence in the local government sector. What we're concerned about is just to facilitate the availability of the competence for the municipalities we're talking about. We have 356 municipalities in this country, and in some municipalities there is a lack of competence. 90 pst. of the most widespread municipalities say that they are not able to grasp the skills they need in order to be able to carry out the statutory tasks they have. And as I've referred to in this room before, I had a meeting with a municipality in Finnmark, where the councillor said, in the last five months, the health and social services in this municipality have consisted of one person, it's been me, and it's just because we haven't been able to recruit anyone else. - That's it. We are working on both training more people with plan skills and, not least, updating the expertise that exists out there. Because when we can't recruit new ones, we also need to re-train and re-train the ones we have, to make sure they can do the problems they're going to do. We are open to look at the municipal structure for this very reason, and I hope that also SV will be there in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1904	The other municipal structure does not ensure that we have this competence in the municipalities as long as it is not required. In the past, there was a requirement for such competence in the municipalities, and there were also State subsidies for such environmental positions in the municipalities. All documentation from, among others: The EVAPLAN, from the National Audit Office, from several other studies, shows that this lack of competence is the basis for making some wrong decisions. So there are not enough cases for local government members to make their decisions. That, of course, will also follow the case further. Cooperation on such competences is not prohibited for municipalities in the event of such a requirement. I don't think the Council's response is working at all when we have known for years that this is the problem – the great loss we have on, for example. species diversity, which occurs bit by bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1911	We've strengthened plan competence, and we keep doing it. I'm not in agreement with the fact that in every area we have to control the detail of how the municipalities are going to do their tasks. Providing individual grants per task to all the municipalities involved means, in sum, that the municipal self-government is confused. So I have more confidence in the municipalities than Andersen's representative shows. We can't control everything by the state, even when the intention is good, because it's just about having armsstrokes to be able to do their own assessments and solve the problems as it's best to solve them locally. We agree that there is a need for more leveling skills, and then we need to train more people. That's what we're doing. Intermunicipal planning can certainly be a solution for municipalities that cannot recruit the skills they need. But I also believe that the merger of municipalities can be important, because this is not the only area where many, especially small municipalities, are struggling to solve their statutory tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1918	This isn't any problem. This is about stopping the natural loss that is happening at a great pace here in the country. So we've lost 114 species in the last 200 years, and every five species are at risk of extinction. The National Audit Service has warned that this loss is happening now, bit by bit. These are not processes that can be reversed. If it's lost, it's lost. That is why I believe that the government is taking too easy the fact that there is no requirement for competence in these matters. On the other hand, you have been very open to say that you should have fewer objections to these matters. The risk then is that this natural loss and loss of biodiversity only continue. What will the Council of State do exactly quickly to stop this loss?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1925	The representative, Andersen, withdraws the objections. Let me then remind you that objections that land at the Council of State's table constitute the top of the iceberg of things that are being treated around the whole country. It is true that, to a greater extent than the previous government, we have given local forces the support of matters that have been dealt with by the State Manager and sent to us for treatment. But that's not what's at the heart of the problem, so thousands of things are decided locally, and I think it's good that they are determined as closely as possible to those who have the shoe on and know where it presses, and who can find good solutions that work there. I think everyone is aware of the enormous challenge we are facing, where we are going to facilitate the development of many small communities around the country while at the same time preserving important natural values, and in and of cultural environment values, for future generations. That balance must be maintained at all times. Therefore, competence is important. That's why we're helping to train more people who are just going to work on these questions. Competence must be available.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1932	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1952	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, no lines will be given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the time allocated will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1959	In this private bill, the government is asked to amend the law so that municipalities and county councils are not allowed to pursue local foreign policy. In Norwegian municipalities and municipalities, there is nothing to prevent them from discussing and deciding whether to boycott goods and services from a region that does not want to import goods from. Proposals for such discussions usually relate to the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, and they come with varying frequencies. Foreign policy is under the government's control. The implementation of sanctions is one of the most powerful foreign policy instruments in the government. Norway is currently part of several UN-EU sanctions regimes. For example, imports and exports from Crimea to and from Crimea are prohibited on the basis of Russia’s occupation of the peninsula. Municipalities and county councils are bound by these sanctions regimes. But they are free to implement their own sanctions regimes, even if they are contrary to government policy, and even if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs comes from this. It can be a challenge if the state, on the one hand, and municipalities and county municipalities on the other, pursue different foreign policies. The government's foreign policy prerogatives are particularly strong, precisely because there are often very demanding balances in different situations and ongoing processes. The majority in the Committee therefore believe that it is not appropriate for municipalities and county municipalities to pursue their own foreign policy to a large extent, and especially not in demanding conflicts, where the national strategy is to balance different concerns. However, the majority do not support a ban on such discussions and decisions. In the Central Party, we do not see that Norway has had major conflicts with municipalities and county councils that have discussed foreign policy issues. Proposals about this come up locally, and as I said in the introduction, they are often linked to the Israel-Palestinian conflict, which has been going on for a very long time. The central party believes that it must be part of the local self-government to choose which debates you want to take. As I said, one has not seen that this has been a major national problem in any way. So, like the plurality of the committee, neither does the Central Party propose to prohibit municipalities and county councils from pursuing a degree of local foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1974	At the Committee's examination of the matter, it became very soon clear that this representative initiative would not be given a majority. But I think we can nuance the basis for rejecting it, something more than what emerges from the case rapporteur, because it is not quite so that a municipality can choose a sanction regime restrictively and differently than our foreign authorities can. The immediate agreement of the Committee is that if the country has implemented a sanction regime, it may not be suspended by a local local authority. The question will then be whether you can go further. So maybe it's a little unsound, even though we're formally in the middle of the comment, when you say, ‘On the other hand, they are free to implement their own sanction regimes contrary to government policy, even if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is derived from this.’ Yes, it is a formal freedom, but you will immediately find yourself in the situations described by the proposers. That is why I think we should at least follow developments. I believe that the best thing about municipal autonomy is that there are enlightened, sensible voters who want to replace politicians who are pulling their own powers too far. It must also be said from this pulpit that it is not immediately such that a local government with a special political majority can use its power of demand in an innocuous way. It is called ‘innocent business denial’ and can impose civil liability on the local government because it not only affects someone who has produced goods and services at an original stage, but can also affect e.g.: the operators who have traded this in the municipality in the last subparagraph. It's a minefield you go into, and it takes wisdom. There is nothing in principle in the way of thinking about the ideas that the proposers outline here, if it really becomes a problem, but what you should also think about, is that if a political majority is constantly to make markings that make it unreasonable and rational with taxpayers' funds, you are, in my opinion, on the wild roads. Then it may also be too long to wait until the next municipal elections to replace that management. I still believe that this policy should be kept under observation and that local reason limits this without further legal interference.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e1990	I agree with the previous speakers that this is not a big issue. But it's a principle issue. In all other countries, foreign policy is exercised by the government. It is not that Norway is very special, but it gives signals if we have a lot of different foreign policy actors, or at least opinionbreakers, out there who have a different view of foreign policy than that, for example. the government has. We have been in contact with some of these stakeholder organisations, who themselves say that there are unclear signals to their country when there are local boycott attacks, whether there are No to nuclear weapons on some municipal basis, or whether there are Western Sahara, the Israel-Palestinian conflict or other conflicts, in Crimea or where it is. In many of these conflicts it can be very unfavourable if we have our own political decisions or ideas in the municipal area. They are not actually elected to foreign policy, and they may have a little too little to do when they absolutely have to deal with foreign policy in their local governments and state governments. I note that the comments here are somewhat contradictory. I see that the Labour Party, on the one hand, says that foreign policy should not be carried out «on a large scale». It's a question of definition: what's a large scale, and what's a small scale? Nevertheless, they do not want to join, because they believe that there should be ethical guidelines – they are very much in favour – both municipal and county. So there are some contradictions here. I also see that the Council of State, the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, writes in a letter to the Committee: ‘I agree with the proposers that it may be unfortunate for the government as responsible for Norwegian foreign policy to adopt many different local and regional decisions on boycott. Such a situation can help to create confusion as to what the Norwegian State’s foreign policy is.’ The Council of State further writes that it violates existing municipal law, as an argument that a county municipality should have the opportunity to boycott sanctions. The whole point of the proposal is to change the municipal law. You can't use the municipal law as a reason why you can't do it. You can then vote in favour of the proposal. Then you get rid of the problem to which the government itself refers. I hope that the government actually joins in this, so that we get a majority for a wise policy, so we don't have to discuss this any more. I hope that the Council of State can come up and confirm that the proposal is wise, as he writes in his reply letter, so that we can get a majority for this proposal, and the Labour Party can do the same. It is not always the case that all the proposals for representatives must be voted against in principle. Some people can join, because the opposition may sometimes have a good idea that the government hasn't thought through. I refer to the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2008	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2013	I have rarely seen anything good coming out of these foreign policy decisions taken by the local government. In the Christian People's Party, it's clear that there's a lot we don't like, but that's not all we're against, which is to be banned. It could be that such a decision had not actually served the case, that it could have worked against its purpose. But I see document 8 from the Progress Party on this matter, and that is a topical question. Even though I ignore the self-marking in the Progress Party, they take up something that takes up many of us. Norwegian trade policy shall be governed by State authorities. It's clear. There's going to be a whole context in what we're doing, and they have an overview of what they're doing on behalf of the nation. The Christian People's Party is promoting this view today, both in local governments and in county councils – they are not the level at which this will happen. Norwegian foreign policy has been adopted, it is under the Constitution that the government is responsible for this, it is part of the principle of the distribution of power, and it has been awarded by mandate. So the local government doesn't really have a mandate to do that either, as I understand it. So there may be a risk that there will be a fractional approach in the issues. A defined majority view in a municipality need not cover what it is going to do and create undue uncertainty and confusion. That the question of the boycott of exactly Israel comes up is unfortunately unfortunate and a little symptomatic. I wish that those who might think of promoting such a boycott are thinking about whether there are other things there might be questions about looking critically at. So that bias is also in this case, because it is often Israel that is hanging out, more or less justified. My conclusion is that I hope the municipal sense wins, that foreign policy is carried out by the government. That is why the Christian People's Party is opposed to introducing such a law. We don't think it's going to promote the case, and it's also not in principle well thought out.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2032	It's a unanimous vote, so I'm not going to withdraw the debate. I take the floor because the Labour Party was asked what we really mean. One of the reasons why we have not taken part in this proposal, and which was not mentioned in the rapporteur's very good review of the Committee's common position, is that the proposal contains a very strong similarity between a sanction regime and a boycott and foreign policy. It's a little unclear to me what you want, what you're going to limit municipalities and county municipalities to do. If you decide that municipalities and county councils are not allowed to conduct foreign policy, does that mean that you do not have the opportunity to discuss what to spend the money of municipalities and county councils through boikott? Or does that also mean other things? Does it mean, for example, that Bergen can no longer be a city of human rights? Does this mean that county councils and municipalities are unable to comment on other EEA matters that they are concerned with? Does this mean that you restrict local self-government and their ability to speak and say what they think if there is something moving in that municipality or county municipality, which seems to be reasonable to have any meaning? I totally agree with Michael Tetzschner. I think it's wise in both municipalities and county municipalities around the country, and I don't think you want to solve any problem with this proposal. I think you'd rather create new ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2041	I really didn't intend to take the floor in this debate, since there is such a clear majority against the proposal, but when Members of the government go so far as to join the issue raised by the Progress Party, I need to say clearly that we see it quite differently. Firstly, this proposal is completely inconsistent, for Norwegian municipalities and counties have, of course, an international commitment, which I do not think anyone is going to stop – for example. what the representative Christensen mentioned in relation to twinning municipalities, networks, a number of forms of international cooperation also with political commitment. This is about the Progress Party wanting to stop one kind of this that the Progress Party does not like. I don't think so. It is better to have elections in municipalities and try to have a majority in favour of a different policy. It is up to the Norwegian municipalities and counties to decide on the principles to be applied to their purchases. And then we see that a different majority does different things. Some are, for example: more busy than others in what kind of work life exists. Others are more concerned with setting environmental standards. And someone's been busy not contributing to violations of international law, for example. by buying goods from illegal settlements. I mean, local politicians who take that responsibility for international law don't deserve to be shut down. They deserve honor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2050	The government's aim is to create a sustainable welfare society, and it is best done through strong municipalities across the country that can provide good services to their citizens. But the municipalities are different. There are different challenges and different assumptions to solve them. Local self-government is therefore essential for municipalities to meet the future in the best way for them. The municipality knows its inhabitants and its local conditions best. And local elected representatives are best placed to make decisions on behalf of the municipality. Municipal Self-Government is the foundation of the law. At the same time, we need to safeguard national interests, such as legal certainty and the right to equivalent services – and all decisions must, of course, comply with laws and regulations, including national law, but also with international rules and trade agreements. Let it also be clear that it is the government that is and will be responsible for Norwegian foreign policy. There is a broad consensus on this in Stortinget. If, for example: many different local and regional decisions on boycott are taken in breach of government policy may lead to challenging situations that also conflict with Norway's foreign policy interests. Although the proposal and the wording are largely about boycott, it is designed in a way that embraces all local foreign policies. It is therefore important to be aware that local policies can be cross-border and have a cross-border dimension. For example, many municipalities have: twinning cities in other countries and cultural exchanges between children and young people. Municipalities have international involvement, such as: Barn cooperation in the north. The countries and municipalities with which such cooperation is being undertaken can be considered as foreign policy. For example, many municipalities have: also representation in Brussels and is there for a reason, precisely to influence. Many municipalities also use the UN’s sustainability targets as a framework for making the municipality a better place for its citizens. The sustainability objectives have international foundations and can also open up international dialogue at local government level. In my opinion, it would be wrong to put an end to such initiatives, which are the best for citizens and businesses in the municipalities. If the municipalities and county councils are to be good venues for political engagement, they must also be able to take decisions that may have impact fields outside their own borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2066	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2071	I decided to participate in this debate, because when I read the setting, I thought the focus was very narrow. That is right, as the Council of State said, it is most about sanctions, and that is an important debate. I took note of the attempts of the Progress Party to limit its proposal against, for example. that this should not include people-to-people cooperation, and some other things listed. An unexplained premise in this proposal is that if anyone other than the government were to think about foreign policy issues, about issues that are going on in another country, or about a question of an international nature, there is a threat to the Norwegian government. I do not agree with that. I believe that when more people participate in international issues and participate in issues of a political nature that concern other countries, it is a strength for Norwegian democracy. I noticed that Tuskedal in his post said that it is rare that something good comes out of these decisions. I disagree. In Northern Norway, you have been a hair in soup for the U.D. for many years, because you drove and mixed up and frequented people in Russia, like in Russia, and had a relationship with them. This has resulted in a lot of good things, for example: We have a visa-free zone. There was nothing that was found in Oslo, something that was pushed forward by the fact that a need was not met by national policies. It even goes across our Schengen cooperation. It was a long fight. Another question is the climate we have had between North West Russia and North Norway. Has it contributed positively or negatively to a part-line agreement in the Barents Sea with the Russians? For my part, I have no doubt that there has been a substantial, significant and positive contribution to the agreement. Or to take a topical question: when the debate on Wizz Air and their behaviour with regard to workers was raised, a wide range of local and regional politicians had clear views that this is a way of acting in the labour market that is not welcome. It was a contribution to strengthening Norwegian democracy. Norwegian municipalities and county municipalities are democratic bodies. They are politically elected and filled with politically committed people. Making such an attempt at intervention and restricting their right to express themselves, or in local self-government, is not only premature, but it is also completely wrong. It would have been a potential weakening of Norwegian democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2084	Can Stortinget pursue municipal policy? Nope. Would you then hear howl and scream in this room if you had tried it? That's right. It was the proximity that was important in this principle. When municipalities and county councils pursue foreign policy, they have neither the necessary competence nor the necessary information to assess the impact of any foreign policy. The government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are much more concerned, of course, than local politicians are doing, and it could potentially have consequences for Norway. When the representative Lysbakken was on the pulpit now talking about climate and working life and human rights – I don't know what to think about for reasons of boycott, not to participate, or to travel etc. – it is clearly unlimited how many areas you can use if you get a majority of the local government or county council to operate with foreign policy. That is what the Progress Party believes is unfortunate. That's certainly what the representative Sivertsen said, that there are many good results from some local initiatives and the people-to-people cooperation, and that's very good. This proposal is to launch a principle that municipalities cannot extend their executive powers, even if they react to something in society, and that may have a completely different impact at national and international level on the government, the foreign minister or the defence minister, if they engage in this. As I mentioned in my previous post, there are organizations or associations that are engaged for their country, and also embassies that, of course, represent their country. It is clear that the signals given by such a type of local foreign policy are unfortunate signals for the policies of the executive government if they go across that policy. It's not very hard to see it, I think, but I understand that it's hard to vote for a representative proposal, as I said instead. You can probably elaborate on this, do more shades that make the proposal much better, because it's not that this proposal is perfect. But I think it's a little thoughtful that you say in this room yourself: there have been some international measures from municipalities that have been very good, ergo is a bad proposal. I think we should be a little careful about how far we go in foreign policy locally. You can talk about sustainability goals: if you think it's a country that doesn't follow the sustainability goals we think is right, or if a country leads mad foreign policy or immigration policy, we should boycott them. There is no limit to the measures that can be taken, and the Progress Party believes that this is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2099	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2117	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2124	I would like to thank the proposer for an important proposal and the committee for its work. The proposals in this case are promoted by two different minorities. One is the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, and the other is a proposal that comes from SV alone. I want to use my time to argue for SV's vision. It has never been clearer that the Western world has failed roughly in one of the most important distribution issues of our time. While, in a short time, large parts of the rich countries will have their vaccine needs met, at least for the time being, large parts of the world are far behind. The global pandemic is far from above, making it an ongoing threat to all of us. It should be very clear to everyone here that in order to deal with new health crises in the future, we need a completely different system – based on transparency, not secrecy, based on justice, not market power. Therefore, the SV supports the proposals promoted in the draft representative. We are also promoting our own proposal today, which is linked to what has become an embarrassing touch for Norway around the role of Norway in the WTO and the TRIPS Council in the vaccine case. When SV proposed this in Stortinget before Christmas, a number of different explanations emerged as to why Norway cannot support a patent exemption. From the Minister of Development we got the impression that it was almost stillborn with such an initiative internationally. The same thing happened in January, when SV and the Senterpartie promoted a new proposal. Then President Biden declared his support for the patent exemption, and then the Minister of Development cheered, while the Minister of Foreign Affairs was somewhat less clear. But then at least half a year had passed, while rich countries, including Norway, trained this process in the WTO. It's going to be standing as a lost opportunity. Norway had the opportunity to be offensive, to break out of the rich community, to press other rich countries, to change the course to ensure better opportunities for low-income and middle-income countries to increase vaccine production. We're making a new attempt today because we still think it's unclear what the government actually thinks about the patent issue. One has cheered for the United States, but what is Norway's line? That is important, because it is for discussion in the WTO today. Still, there's no clear signal. You say you work for a solution, but you say little about what is Norway's role and what that solution is. That is why I challenge the government today to clarify what they actually believe in this matter. Norway’s place should be clear: a clear yes to allow poor countries and middle-income countries to increase their own production of vaccine because vaccination is as important as possible for pharmaceutical companies. With that, I take up the suggestions SV has alone or together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2141	The representative Audun Lighthouse has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2146	Most people have now realized that the pandemic will not be finally suppressed in any country until it is controlled in all countries. Mutations and new variants have been able to occur locally to then spread globally. Therefore, there is also a right understanding of the basic motivation of the proposers in the case we are dealing with today. The reason why we just didn't fully support this is two-fold. Firstly, the government is already a very active driver to contribute to the global fight against covid-19. Norway is among the initiators of the CEPI, which is the global coalition for the prevention of epidemics and pandemics. Furthermore, together with South Africa, Norway has led the Access to Covid-19 Tools Accelerator Council, ACT-A. This has produced substantial results, as the Minister of Health has also mentioned in previous articles here. It is also worth mentioning that Norway is actively and specifically working to increase transparency in the pharmaceutical market, including: through the Oslo Medicines Initiative. These are the tracks we should follow forward. The second reason why we do not support the proposal for a representative is that it has as its basic premise that today's system does not work and needs to be replaced by something completely new. I'm not going to use unparliamentary expressions, but it's approaching that it has to be based on something completely wrong. The proposers claim that the Norwegian Government has fallen victim to the pharmaceutical industry. This is a false description and, at the same time, a vision that does not give recognition to the pharmaceutical companies that have actually developed the vaccines. That would have been the case. It is mildly said that it is both unfortunate and erroneous to make such claims. One important feature of everything that has happened through this pandemic is just the record-high rate at which vaccines against covid-19 have been developed. The vaccines have not been distributed as evenly as we would hope, or in ways that discharge our common global responsibility for combating the pandemic, but this is not a result of problems in the development of the vaccines. The development of the vaccines could not be as rapid as it has been if pharmaceutical companies had not been able to wait for their investment in research and development, and proposers want all these rights to be disregarded. Something like that could slow down the development of vaccines at the next pandemic, and therefore is right against the proposal. Finally, I would like to mention that proposals for the temporary violation of all patent rights are not what President Biden said positively about this month. Both the United States and Norway have consistently been in favour of solutions that ensure that intellectual property rights do not interfere with the widest possible global production of vaccines.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2163	The Korona crisis has reinforced the difference, not only in Norway, but not least globally. In no field is this clearer than in the case of just vaccines. It was therefore Red earlier this year that we are going to vote on today, a proposal with several measures, both short-term and long-term, that should counteract what is clearly a global vaccine apartheid. The fact that the bourgeois parties react to the use of words may be so. Worse still, in the consideration of our proposal, they show disappointingly little humility about the world's present situation. For what else can we call it than some kind of apartheid, and what else can we call it than a broken policy, reaches 0.3 pst. – 0,3 pst. – of the vaccines so far gone to low-income countries? This is harmful not only to the vast majority of people who do not have access to the vaccine, but also to countries such as Norway. For the crisis is not over here, although we have gradually vaccinated very many of our own inhabitants. As long as the virus continues to live and spread, there will be mutations in other parts of the world that will then spread to Norway. We are therefore disappointed that the citizens will not even admit that their own vaccine policy is wrong, but we are also very pleased that the Centre Party, SV and the Workers' Party today announce support for several of Rødt's proposals. It is a citizen of a new vaccine policy from Norway from the fall of the year. It is also an important first recognition that the focus on so-called public-private cooperation is not working. It does not work because it is the pharmaceutical industry and Bill Gates who for many decades have dictated the conditions. Now we have to realize that these initiatives have not, in fact, been complementary but, rather, perhaps out-competitive to the common global effort. I am pleased that the red-greens now seem to be in the process of realizing this, and of course we will keep them responsible for it after the election. Then we're going to have more transparency about Norway's vaccine policy and agreements with the pharmaceutical industry, which the civil society in Norway and the rest of the world requires. We are to have the patent legislation evaluated for essential medicines and vaccines and change it, because it does not work. We will ensure that all Norwegian contributions to vaccine development in the future are based on principles of knowledge sharing and open source, because increased self-sufficiency and solidarity are the way forward. And we are going to strengthen the WHO and prioritise real cooperation in the world at the expense of the huge power of pharmaceutical companies today. At the next pandemic, when it has to come, we'll be better equipped to make sure that every country in the world is more self-sufficient and less dependent on industry – everyone who benefits from the current pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2176	For the Central Party, it is important to stress that we want Norway as a driver in all multilateral global vaccine coverage forums. It is important that there is the greatest possible openness, both in the procurement of medicinal products and vaccines, and in the clinical outcome. Of course, the fact that Norway is involved and funding this should be a matter of course. The WHO should and should be a coordinating body, and a new red-green government must intensify its international efforts to ensure an entirely different and better distribution of vaccines and medicines than we have today. It can't be right, as the representative from the Right said, that the system works well, when one in April got informed that 1 pst. by people living in Africa had been vaccinated – 1 pst – while others, in richer countries, have probably doubled the number of people living in Africa. Then the international system doesn't work well enough. We know that a lot of public funds have been used to produce vaccines, and we know that many of those who produce vaccines do. They should, too, because it's important for one to come up with new technology. But we have to find in this field, too, a more solidarity and better distribution model than we have today. For this reason, the Centre Party, together with the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, is involved in the proposals that have been put forward by SV on behalf of us, and I am looking at a new government after the elections that in this and many other fields will lead a much more solidarity policy than today's government has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2187	The pharmaceutical market is complex and global. In recent years, we have experienced a number of challenges related to the functioning of this market — including increasing numbers of deficiencies, the types of medicinal products developed, high prices and different access to medicinal products. The pandemic has also highlighted these challenges in the pharmaceutical market, but they are not new. At the same time, the pandemic has also shown us that it has been possible to develop a large amount of vaccines in record time and to increase production significantly in a very short time, which would only be considered entirely unimaginable a few years ago. Norway has contributed to the financing, development and availability of vaccines, including 2 200 million. SEK to CEPI and SEK 1,282 million. SEK to Gavi in 2020. We are also actively working on several fronts to contribute to technology transfer, among others. through CEPI and ACT-A and by being clear in the dialogue with the pharmaceutical industry. Norway was one of the countries that signed the WHO Call to Action for COVID-19 Technology Access Pool, C-TAP, with objectives of voluntary sharing of knowledge, intellectual property rights and data. Both inside and outside the WHO, including C-TAP and ACT-A, it is being targeted to advance technology transfer. The sharing of knowledge and transparency across the whole value chain is central to accessing medicinal products. Low and medium-income countries have long raised issues relating to access to medicines in the United Nations system, including the World Health Organisation. In recent years, a number of high-income countries have also participated in this discussion. It led to the adoption of a groundbreaking resolution at the World Health Assembly in May 2020 on transparency in the pharmaceutical market. The World Health Organisation cannot create greater transparency itself. It must be initiated and implemented by the countries themselves. I have therefore started a process to look at what measures can be taken to increase the transparency of the pharmaceutical market and thus contribute to increased access to medicines. In cooperation with WHO Europe, I have established the Oslo Medicine Initiative. This shall be a neutral platform where authorities and industry can work together for equivalent and sustainable access to efficient, innovative and reasonable medicinal products. The Oslo Medicines Initiative will organise a high-level meeting in Oslo in March 2022. International trade legislation provides important framework conditions. Several proposals are now under discussion in the World Trade Organisation, including a proposal from India and South Africa on exemptions from the TRIPS Agreement. Thus far, intellectual property rights have not been a decisive obstacle to increased vaccine production, but a number of developing countries feel that it is too difficult to avail themselves of today's possibilities for exceptions. The discussion is under development and Norway is working to build consensus in order to obtain effective solutions in the WTO.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2200	The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2205	It became known a few weeks ago that the United States is opening up to support a proposal for a patent exemption for covid vaccines in the WTO, where Norway now has a so-called leadership role. But the government hasn't yet absolutely confirmed whether it will deal with such a patent exemption in addition to notifying some sort of verbal support by saying it's good that the United States has changed its policy. The latter is a little strange because until Biden made his statement, the government was very firm in rejecting the need for and support for a patent exemption. That is why I would like to ask for a clear answer from the Minister of Health. Will Norway, as leader of the WTO TRIPS Council, support and facilitate a patent exemption for covid vaccines, or will we not? The argument against a patent exemption has been that it has been too far-reaching. Then the question is what the government means by that. Is it a problem if the patent exemption applies not only to vaccines but also to covid medicines, technology or equipment? This is needed to save as much life as possible, which is at the heart of what should be government policy. Is there the problem that it can also include these parts of the covid suppression, or is there any other reason behind the government's preliminary resistance to patent exemptions for covid vaccines and medicines? We know that those who have financed the vast majority of the development of covid vaccines are the states, the community, the population. Over 90 pst. the funding of some of the vaccines comes from countries – a huge joint effort. We know that most of the innovation in medicine is in public universities, funded and paid by the community. That's where it happens most of the time. Then there's one term at the top here that makes all this effort from the community, both financially and researchically, into its private property, which then stands in the way – as we've seen in southern countries – of quickly scaling up the production of covid vaccines, which can save millions of lives in southern countries. Thus, the private ownership of these pharmaceutical companies is opposed to something that is largely funded by the communities and developed through research at public universities, including that funded by the community. It's actually a very good illustration of capitalism, that the effort is social, while the profit is made privately, and it's also a mistake when it comes to combating the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2214	No one has enjoyed the fair distribution of vaccines that are neither developed nor produced. It is therefore important that we ensure both the production and development of vaccines – that is the most important thing – but also that the vaccines are fairly distributed. Neither the United States nor Norway supported or supported the original proposal launched last October by India, South Africa and other co-sponsors. Together with a number of other Member States and developing countries, we assessed that this was a proposal that was too extensive. During these days there are discussions to try to find solutions, including: based on the positive development of the opening up of the United States of America in order to support a temporary derogation for vaccines against the coronary virus. However, these discussions are still ongoing, and Norway is constantly working to find good solutions that contribute to the fairest possible distribution of vaccines in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2222	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2239	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2246	We are now considering a comprehensive Document 8 proposal which is thematically at the intersection of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee and the Financial Committee. In addition to addressing important aspects of our development policy, it also promotes a number of concrete proposals related to the design of the Norwegian tax system. Therefore, this position, on the initiative of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, has also been within the Financial Committee for its opinion before it was finally delivered by us. I would like to express my opinion that these are proposals that would have deserved a broader discussion and debate than the request made by the Stortinget. Putting own fiscal and trade policies into context with development policy objectives and the ‘moment’ we see in the tax field internationally right now is something that the Storting should have worked much more closely than what this process has put in place. Maybe it could be a task for a new political majority for the autumn. The 10th UN Sustainable Development Goal is about combating inequality. Despite this, inequality is increasing and is hampering development and poverty reduction, among other things. in countries to which Norway provides assistance. It is therefore an important signal when an overall committee in this setting writes that ‘disparity and distribution must be a central focus of Norwegian development policy’. The Committee also stresses — unanimously — that illegal capital movements and the tax evasion of multinational companies are an important reason for the world’s sharp rise in economic disparities. This weakens the ability of countries to mobilise their own resources and to ensure well-being for their own populations. This requires a much clearer follow-up than what we've seen so far. In February, the final report came from the FACTI Panel, which Norway has funded. The report advocates a comprehensive reform of an out-of-date international economic system – a rather radical document – and makes a number of concrete recommendations for further follow-up. Many of the recommendations reflect topics for discussion in the OECD and Norway is actively participating. We should keep doing that. At the same time, in the Committee's view, it is essential that international tax rules be developed in forums that include as many countries as possible. These balances between ensuring progress and ensuring breadth and legitimacy can be demanding, they are often difficult and should, in the Committee's view, be discussed as far as possible with the Storting. It should be noted by the Minister for Development that Stortinget has now said. Much should have been said about all the concrete proposals that are being promoted, but I hesitate to say that they address very many issues that require the development of new policies, and warn – even if it is not stated in the vote – that the Workers' Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 1 — Proposals Nos. 3-10 and proposals Nos. 13–15.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2261	Some of the problem, but perhaps also the purpose, with these Document 8 proposals is that they often contain a tacit premise that no policy has been developed in this area. If you see what documents are presented to the Storting, and what work is being done by our authorities in international forums to come to life the phenomenon that – sometimes striking, but not always – is described by the proposers, you can wonder if the theme deserves a more precise formulation, usually related to the documents the others have dealt with. That's why, of course, a 15-point list of actions as a resolution is considered impressive, but as a decision-making basis for the Storting, it's not quite as impressive, because we depend on getting the whole picture. This is not a policy to be developed. For our part, it has been necessary to recall the policies already adopted by the Storting through the various development messages we have had, and the ongoing international work. For example, in the case of anti-corruption, a broad discussion was held in the report. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. Norway also works every day, perhaps not so attentively, in both the UN, the OECD, the World Bank and other relevant forums to increase transparency and control of international capital movements in order to counter corruption and illegal capital flows. Poverty is also combated by economic progress, and it has long been disputed whether a system of production that lifted large groups out of poverty at all. Fortunately, the market economy has prevailed in most contexts. There may be other problems, but I think for this occasion I will be very careful to refer to the comments made by the government parties and others. We promote the idea that the very initiative of this representative is not adopted, but that does not mean that the matter is irrelevant or that it is not actively... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2272	Through this proposal, SV takes the initiative to rig Norway for a leadership role in what is one of our main common challenges, namely the fight against global inequality. This is perhaps the most obvious change in development policy from the time of the red-green government to the bourgeois years, a bit independent of the various bourgeois constellations: that inequality, which was today raised to a very central part of Norwegian development policy, has disappeared downwards on the agenda of Norwegian development policy under the bourgeois government. It's a very clear development, and that's a very clear difference, and with this proposal we want to lay the groundwork for turning it around if we get a new majority for the harvest. This is based on a recognition that small differences are crucial for development, and that development policy must be aimed at reducing the inequality between countries, but also at reducing the inequality in countries. The significance of e.g. Having a functioning tax system, the importance of local economic elites not being able to get rid of all the resources, is crucial if we are to achieve economic growth, if we are to get to a functioning state, and if we are to lay the foundation for development. The fight against the harmful effects of tax havens requires legislation and administration capable of closing gaps, both in our domestic systems and in the systems of developing countries. The fight against inequality globally requires countries such as Norway to take the lead in the necessary grips. Now we see a change among Western countries. From years of ever-increasing market liberalism, we see that the wind is spinning, and especially alarmingly, the new administration in the United States may show a whole new willingness to tax multinationals, to prevent capital flight and to work internationally for a fairer tax system. This change of attitude also gives Norway opportunities. One measure that we highlight here today is the work of a United Nations Convention on Taxation. Norway must play an important role there. It is important that we look at development policy and trade policy in the context, that we have a trade policy that should balance differences, not strengthen them, and that we have a development policy and a trade policy that is coherent. Then I would have wanted to demand the will to look at the proposals one more time from the parties we have often considered allies in these questions. The Workers' Party has already signaled that they will vote for a number of proposals. I'm very happy about that. It would have been great if the Center Party would evaluate the same thing, because here I think we agree a lot. I'll take up the suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2289	The representative Audun Lighthouse has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2294	There the Center Party got a clear challenge at the tamp of the post to the previous speaker. There is no doubt that for the Central Party it is important to strengthen the work against capital evasion and tax havens. It is also true that there are many of these proposals that the Centre Party can support, and we definitely support the intention behind the proposal, but for once – perhaps not so often – I have to agree with the representative, Tetzschner, that so many proposals that are not paid out more than they are in a private bill, do we find it difficult to take over the table in the Central Party? That is one reason why we are not going to support the proposal today. The second is about making these questions a key issue in development policy. That's enough for us to discuss in a red-green government, because the Central Party is the struggle to secure all available water, food and all the necessary resources so important that it should be a major issue, and raised far higher than the government of today has done. The centre party definitely supports the fact that these issues too need to be raised, because, together with the climate challenges and the coronary apathy that exacerbates the situation and limits the poorest, we are quite happy to get system changes that ensure that we get less inequality both nationally and not least globally. The fact that the Central Party does not vote for the proposals today does not mean that we disagree with them. To make development policy a major issue – well, we will then discuss what is to be given the highest priority. There is a context in which I believe it will be important to discuss in the future: a link between climate change and a hopeless policy of distribution and lack of solidarity, and the systematic reduction of individual countries. It also prevents one from feeding the population. It prevents one from creating jobs, and it prevents one from building up services and well-being that we consider to be entirely self-evident. In my basic opinion, I think that there is a lot in common, and there is a good basis for further discussion in a new government after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2309	First, I would like to thank the proposers for drawing attention to some of the most important issues of development policy. Combating tax evasion and illegal capital flows is not a siding or a distraction for other important development policy objectives. It's on the contrary a completely necessary wager to reach all the others. The pandemic has made it harder to eradicate extreme poverty by 2030, but it is still equally important. If the fight against poverty is to be won, it must end with developing countries being seized for more money through corruption, tax evasion and illegal capital flows than they receive in aid. Therefore, Norway is systematically and in the long term working on alliance construction to bring about structural changes, and Norway was among the drivers of the establishment of the FACTI, the United Nations Panel on Economic Responsibility, Transparency and Integrity for Sustainable Development. Differences not only affect the poorest but also hinder economic growth. Only the countries themselves can work out of poverty, but our job is to provide the support that makes it easier to create their own future and remove the obstacles to progress there. For many years, Norway has been actively working through both the UN, the OECD, the World Bank and regional development banks to increase transparency and to strengthen tax systems and to counter corruption and illegal capital flows, and efforts have stepped up under this government. Since 2015, we have doubled what is tax-related assistance, which was some of the clear recommendations contained in the Addis Tax Initiative, and we did so one year before the goals set, i.e. in 2019. After active Norwegian and Nordic efforts, we have also, through the World Bank and the African Bank, been aware that the level of ambition associated with combating illegal capital flows has increased. We are also engaged in tax cooperation at land level, so that developing countries can participate more fully in the progress achieved globally. The Skatt for Development programme includes, inter alia: in the strengthened effort we have through the Knowledge Bank, and there we see among other things. that through its knowledge sharing, the Tax Directorate has received and delivered important results. Among other things, we have a cooperation between the tax Directorates in Norway and Tanzania, which is a good example, where we, among other things, has had a project through tax audits of mining companies. It led to paid extra taxes in several cases, and in a single case as much as 1 billion. kr. The ongoing processes under the auspices of the G20 and the OECD for better taxation of international companies are scheduled to be completed in the summer and the positive signals from the US on, among others. the minimum global level of corporate taxation has given new oxygen to those negotiations. We must now concentrate on completing these negotiations in the OECD and the inclusive framework established. As mentioned above, over the years, we have developed a number of international processes and experiences that have led to the fact that there is a very large amount of alliance building required.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2324	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 21st Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2341	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2348	First of all, thanks to the proposers, who in this proposal are asking the government in the government budget for the next year to come with a big deal on Norwegian climate finance by 2030. In the message, a look at and see how Norway can step up its contribution to international climate funding. The Paris Agreement obliges rich countries to contribute to climate finance in developing countries. Both climate adaptation and emissions reduction are to be achieved in developing countries. It is an obligation for the rich countries to contribute at least 100 billion. US dollars from 2020, but there's different ways to measure this, and there's different views of how far one has come to reach the measure, how much is needed. It shall also negotiate a new collective objective by 2025. In its work on the option, the government has indicated that they look at different renewable energy sources, including outside the aid budget. What time comes with such an explanation if it is not said, but a new climate fund could be a possibility. In this case, there is also no support for the proposers, given that one will vote in favour of the proposal, but I believe that there is a far greater, broader and more positive view of the proposal than what is being expressed, for climate policy is an important part of development policy. That's true of the Center Party, and I also believe it is true of many other parties in this hall. As I said in my speech in the previous issue, climate change has a direct connection with migration, which is due to a failure to produce food, a lack of access to water, a failure to feed in areas that are exposed to climate change, and they are therefore – we can refer to the Foreign Minister here – our theme in NATO, because it also has a security policy side. This is an overarching question, but coming up with a big message in five months now, up to the state budget, we don't see it as a decent solution to this issue. We would rather work to bring about a change of government and use the time after that together with both the proposers and others to develop a policy in this field that has a completely different strength than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2363	The world is lagging behind in relation to the objectives of climate finance in the Paris Agreement. According to the OECD, rich countries have spent almost 80 billion dollars. dollars on the table in 2018 for the purpose, but according to the humanitarian organisation Oxfam International, the real figure is much lower, perhaps as low as 20 billion a year. It's pretty far from the promise that was given in Paris, to give 100 billion. dollars annually to poor countries. There is a significant risk that rich countries will not meet their own commitments to climate finance measures in poor countries. In order for Norway to fulfil its obligations under the Paris Agreement, a stepping-up is necessary in this area. There is a need for a large-scale investment in addition to the level of appropriations currently being made. There are two important principles in the debate on how much each country should contribute. One is that countries have different responsibilities for the climate crisis, and the other is that countries have different capacities to help resolve the climate crisis. These principles have long been governing the debate on international climate finance. In the report Norway’s Fair Share of meeting the Paris agreement, researchers at the Stockholm Environment Institute have estimated what Norway’s fair share of climate funding is by 2030. Their estimate shows that Norway is responsible for supporting emissions reduction and climate adaptation up to 65 billion. kr annually. The type of estimate says a lot about the size that needs to be done, and how far from Norway today is taking responsibility. In addition to discussing national emission reductions, we need to put in place a plan for stepping up climate finance in the future. Therefore, SV has proposed that a large-scale report be submitted, a requirement that the Church’s emergency aid has also promoted. The main purpose of the notification must be to provide a stepping-up plan and to explore different funding solutions that allow Norway, and hopefully other countries, to contribute its legitimate share to climate finance. The notification should discuss different funding solutions and identify any models and solutions that may also be relevant for other countries to implement. I'll bring up the proposal from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2378	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2383	Climate, environment and emissions are concepts and natural phenomena that have taken greater and greater place. I've been in politics for a long time, and when I was young, we didn't talk about this, but today it's become something of the most important thing we're doing. It is a global phenomenon, it has consequences in most areas of society, and it affects most areas of development in society. That is why I am pleased that the Paris Agreement obliges rich countries to assist with climate finance in developing countries to contribute to the global greenhouse gas reduction target, as well as here at home on the mountain. For the Christian People's Party, this is not just in line with the goals of sustainability, but it is in fact in line with the foundation of our party, namely the responsibility of the administration. The obligation implies that the rich countries together will contribute at least USD 100 billion until a new collective objective is agreed in 2025. Yes, the young press, but fortunately I notice more and more that the adult and older generation are also pressing. It is a new phenomenon in the political landscape, fortunately. However, Norway has no individual obligation to increase climate finance in addition to contributing to the achievement of the objective, and the Christian People's Party will do so. In addition, Norway is already very active in this field. Norway has long been a significant contributor to public climate finance for developing countries. This concerns both multilateral channels, Norfund’s investments in renewable energy and a comprehensive climate and forest effort in development aid. We must also be able to refer to Norway as a leading country in this area. The government has said it will continue climate and forest activity by 2030. It's going to be between 1.5 and 2 billion a year. kr added Norfund to new management capital, where investments in renewable energy shall represent about half of the capital added. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is currently carrying out an investigation to provide the necessary basis for Norway’s further contribution to increased investment based on Norfund’s experience. It's going to be exciting to keep up with it. For the Christian People's Party, as I said, this will be a major further step. However, overall, it seems reasonable to consider Norway’s contribution in this field to be significant already, and the government’s efforts to participate at such a level suggest that further impositions are not appropriate now on the part of the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2398	Climate change remains the biggest challenge of our time, and it is urgent, as never before, to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. I would therefore like to thank the representatives for a proposal that deals with one of the most important components of the agreement, namely climate finance. If we are to have a chance to achieve the long-term objectives of the agreement, the contribution to climate finance needs to be stepped up. As the representatives pointed out, the so-called industrialized countries had committed themselves collectively to mobilizing 100 billion. the dollar in annual climate finance by 2020. OECD figures show that in 2018 we were still far from meeting that objective. It remains to be seen what the corresponding figures for 2019 and 2020 were, but there is no doubt that we need to be constantly looking for ways to increase both our own and others' efforts. Among other things, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is now investigating the possibility of setting up a new climate fund for investments in renewable energy in developing countries with high emissions, with a special focus on the exchange of coal power. The government has also made climate adaptation, prevention and combating hunger a high priority area for development cooperation. We recently launched our own strategy for this and stepped up support for climate adaptation, starting with the 2020 budget, with an increase of 500 million. kr. In addition to that, we increased this exact field by another 140 million. kr i revised. As mentioned above, we see a significant escalation precisely because it is absolutely necessary. Norway has long been a significant contributor to public climate finance to developing countries through multilateral channels. Norfund’s investments, as mentioned here, in renewable energy and extensive climate and forest investment are well known to Stortinget. Norway has also doubled its contribution to the Green Climate Fund from 400 million. to 800 million. kr annually until 2023. Norfund receives between 1.5 billion a year. and 2 billion. kr in new administrative capital, half of which is intended for investment in renewable energy. The total portfolio of Norfund is above 2 billion. kr. In addition, Norway provides significant funding through development banks that increasingly go to climate-related measures. Norway shall continue to be a leading country in a long-term and predictable climate funding to developing countries. Today, I can inform Stortinget that the government will develop a comprehensive strategy to strengthen Norwegian climate finance. We will come back to that already in connection with the budget in the autumn. It shall contribute to increased efforts to achieve the long-term objectives of the Paris Agreement, and it shall be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2411	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 22nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2428	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2435	It has been interesting to work on the part of the Monitoring Committee allocated to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, namely the questions of the legalisation of the Ombudsman for Defence, to which it has referred today, which will become the Defence Officer. The Committee shall take the same approach as the Monitoring Function Committee when it says that the External Bodies of the Storting neither have nor should have formal authority to instruct or review management decisions. If the external bodies were able to instruct or review the management decisions, they would in practice participate in the public authority exercise to be monitored by themselves and by the Stortinge. It reminds us, with reference to another debate we have had today, that it is important that the parliamentary control of the Stortning is the Biggest that is in charge. External bodies are not necessarily regulators of the government's follow-up policy, so these external bodies must also be seen on the basis of their mandate. Then the previous instruction from 1952 is replaced by the law – it is a great enthusiasm to legislate – and during the discussion of the draft law, two very important statements were received. One was from the Ministry of Defence, who thought that a very broad wording had been chosen when it was the opportunity of the denominator to be presented with any document in the Defence, and access to any facility regardless of the grading. This is in line with the tightening of the reference — however, a minority maintains the original wording of the Harberg Committee. The second is less dramatic differences, where we have reached agreement in the committee. I would like to point out, among other things: a change we've made from the Harberg Committee, and that's keeping the number of subjects at seven. There was the proposal to go from seven fasts to five, without alternates. Today it's seven plus seven. We thought that the denominator was somewhat too vulnerable to maturity given that they are going to deal with matters and keep a smooth flow of business, so for the sake of the groups they are going to serve, which have now also increased in number because they also incorporate those who have served earlier, we think it was right to keep the number of denominators of seven, but without any alternates. I will come back in a later article if there is a need for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2450	The Ombudsman of Defence is an important body. It works in a strong and secure tradition, and back to 1952, on an independent basis, it has solved matters and conflicts that naturally arise in the Defence. The name and the ombudsman himself has helped to make everyday life better for our soldiers, and it has also made the defense better. The Labour Party believes that the review of the proposal made by the Harberg Committee is a very good basis for further development of the name, and the Workers' Party is largely committed to this. The Harberg Committee confirms the importance of the denominator and proposes that the denominator be maintained – and thus continued. The working party strongly adheres to this. It is necessary to focus on two-three parts of this new legislative proposal, on which there is a consensus, but also on which there is a clear disagreement. There are two things I want to spend time here within the narrow speaking time we have. One is that the legislative proposal now also opens up so that the denominator should address the situation of foreign veterinarians. It's a very new dimension in the work of the denominator and it'll probably look like the structure and profile of the denominator in a different way to what we've been used to. I think we're going to base that, but the Storing is doing this with open eyes, to say it like that. There's been a pressure for years to get this done, and we're doing it today. What is, however, the most serious — and there may be a need for perhaps more input at this point — is the disagreement between the position and the opposition regarding the legislative provision on the restriction of access to documents. We have had that discussion on a principle basis for several rounds during this spring session, and in other contexts I have made clear what I think about this, namely how unfortunate it is that the Storting adopts restrictions on the ability of the control institutions to seize documents. In the past, as the President is particularly aware, the handling of R-notes was the border. That's not the case now. Now the position has been based on the Ministry of Defence's understanding that there should be no opportunity to ask for anything other than what is within the category "limited". Taste it. It's a clear wing clipping of the Ombudsman's authority and the ability to do his job, and I'm very sorry that it seems to be a majority for that. I'm coming back at this point, because it'll be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2465	The Progress Party has always been a party supporting ombudsman arrangements. Today is a historic day. Since the Ombudsman’s adoption in 1952, the day has finally arrived and a law will come into force. The fact that the Ombudsman has done a good job, in line with the leading Stortingen Foundation, has raised all doubts. If I remember correctly, the Norwegian system is the first of its kind in any country. In this way, Norway has been a driver through its focus and desire to take care of defence personnel and civil servants. The defence, which is the sharpest part of Norwegian society, must have the ability to take care of its own crews and those who have chosen a civil job within the organisation. The size has chosen to follow this up through the Ombudsman’s name. Unfortunately, veterans are often left with an experience that the society they represent in foreign service is not as present when they return home. Many have worn, and labored, with the aftermath of brutal experiences far away from Norway and the family. Some of these have received good help and support from the Ombudsman when life has been at its darkest. My understanding is that the process between the Ombudsman and the Harberg Committee was good, and that is essentially a unanimous attitude. The Progress Party is concerned that the Ombudsman should have access to relevant information in order to carry out his/her tasks. The disagreements relating to access to information and physical locations are based on different interpretations of what was in the proposal for a new law. The majority, of which the Progress Party is a part, is not intended to prevent the Ombudsman from obtaining relevant information. We just want to establish clear criteria for which information and locations should be available to make studies relevant for the purpose of the denominator's mission.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2480	The central party supports the Ombudsmen of the Defence. We also support the Harberg selection's setting. There is cause for concern that today's government increases the extent of document grading and increases hammockness to an extent that cannot be left unreported. We saw it in the process around the long-term plan, we have also seen it in connection with export control and in the case we have had before today, about the EOS selection and their ability to carry out their work. Now you want to limit the scope of access to Ombudsman documents to being restricted. It will make work harder. It will make it very difficult to get to the bottom of important things that they can have on their table. It will break a practice that has been established for many decades. The members of the Defence Ombudsman have their mandate directly from the Storting, they are elected by the Storting, and of course have a responsibility to deal with the matters they handle when these are graded or have probably information. It is now time for the Storting to stand above the government – even though we can wonder whether all the members of the government have understood it both in this case, in other cases and by publishers. The Centerpartiet will therefore support adding to the Harberg Committee its original proposal for a new section 4 on supervision, which will allow them to carry out their work in the way we want them to do. It has been doing a very good job from Ombudsmen for many years and with varying compositions. Sitting down is not the most profiled task you can have, but the more important it is to those who can get their things up and get them handled there. Now I'm not talking about individual matters, but about matters that apply to many in the defense. I am sorry that one in this matter limits the possibilities of the Ombudsman of Defence. I'm dealing with the proposal that the Center Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2495	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2500	Last year, Red was given a unanimous boost to change the mandate of the Harberg Committee, in order to make recommendations to strengthen the involvement and control of the EEAS. The Ombudsman of the Defence shall have the task of securing the rights of defence personnel – civil, military, staff and defence officers. This is a central part of Storting's involvement and control of defence policy. That's why it was important and good that all the parties at Stortinget were behind the Harberg Committee's proposal for a new law on Stortinget's ombudsmanship for Defence. Paragraph 4 of the proposal states that, without prejudice to professional secrecy and grading, the Ombudsman is entitled to any information and any document deemed necessary by the Ombudsman in order to carry out his duties under the law, to have access to any place under the control of the Defence Agency, and to publish his critical reports, if they do not have confidential or classified information. Red is associated with the minority that will adopt this and also refers to the Harberg Committee’s recommendation that where a national audit report contains classified information, an unupgraded version shall be issued, where this information has been extracted, but is otherwise as complete as possible. Unfortunately, under the leadership of Bakke-Jensen, the department has brought with it the government parties, with the Progress Party on draw, on the contrary. The Ombudsman will be deprived of the right of access and local control. Maybe it's not surprising that a government that unfortunately, we have to say, systematically misuses secrecy to avoid criticism and running away from responsibility, will also reduce transparency. But that the majority of the population can be persuaded to let the government decide and limit that the Storting is in control of the government, is alarming and hits one of the pillars of Norwegian democracy. So what the Storting is doing today is not just harming the protection of defence personnel and cutting off the first modern ombudsman regime in Norway, namely this one from 1952, which is another example of what is inherited from the current government – the solar mountain anti-parliamentary – a reduction, bit by bit, of Norwegian parliamentary democracy. Reconstruction must begin after option.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2507	School examples are often quite gruesome and strong. The previous article can be an example of the failure to understand what this ombudsman scheme has been doing since 1952. It also has addresses for those who say that there is a huge restriction on both transparency and other legislation – but it is not at all, because the instructions that are now do not have the extended home that someone has found to be proposing in the control function committee. The current system is precisely what we are continuing or recommending, namely that it is an immediate opportunity to see documents of a lower level of security, but that it is of course downgraded to the use of the denominator. And that's what has been current practice to this day. It's also a little bit of a problem when you go from instructions, an instruction that hasn't been changed since 1952. By the way, it was a minor change in 1955, but otherwise this instruction has been completely untapped and without problems since 1952 – which should actually make the Stortinget think about the form of the law sometimes become a little too rigid, because an instruction can be changed as the practical needs change. But here you haven't had the need that you now argue to be different in this clarification of what is the right level of security. We have also submitted some comments which require that there should also be participation in supervision and the exercise of their mandate. One reason why this has not been put on the head in the past is that the denominator has worked so called low practice. They have been on the lookout, and they have listened to complaints and any views on pampering, on clothing – i.e. the practical things that result from normal work of interest when you are out at work. It should not come as a surprise – and I have to say this again, which is also mentioned by the Harberg Committee – that this is not part of the parliamentary control of the country's defence seat, and that the government adheres to the adopted defence policy of the Storting. So this is a well-being body that works and that we all think should continue to work, because the evaluation – which Rambøll also carried out – said that it has been excellent and has great credibility on both sides, and that is how it should continue to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2516	The Harberg Committee has established a principle which has been followed by the Workers' Party for its part through all the proceedings initiated by the Harberg Committee, namely that the Supervisory Boards of the Storting should be given the authority necessary to be absolutely sure that they are able to carry out their duties as required by the Storting. This also applies in this case. The thing that's worth noting, and that has to be said clearly from Storting's pulpit, is that it was a unanimous Harberg committee. Then there has been an invisible hand, which I have experienced quite many times through my parliamentary career, which overrides what was clearly the unanimous position of the Stortinge, namely that the principle that the Supervisory Boards of the Stortinge should have full access, and that they themselves should determine the norm, should be continued. Two hearing opinions were submitted, which the representative Tetzschner points out quite correctly. One of them came from the Secretary of Defense. What is now in the majority vote is a copy of the Ministry of Defence — a copy. But there was also a statement from the Ombudsman, who pointed in the other direction. So that's what you're going to add now. And then you could say, how serious is it? In any case, it is basically very serious that the Storting chooses a wrong principle for the design of a new law. That's what's serious. Unfortunately, this follows – you might say – the intention of the majority of the presidency on a number of other issues as well. That's why it gets very serious – because I think, of course, on many counts, it can continue to function fairly, but they won't have the law in their backs if there's any conflict with the Defense. Then the defense will say that no, this is graduated, this will tell you nothing more about. This has been decided by Stortinget, and I do not understand that one dares to make such decisions. That's what I'm trying to say. And that's where the matter stands, and that's why it's really a little weird, I'd say -- as I know the Right and Right legal and political traditions -- that you go away from it and headlong supports what the Ministry of Defence wants new law and order.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2525	I dare to argue that this work is in good right-wing tradition. The Ombudsman of Defence is an important institution. It is important for both defence and defence personnel. The term was established as the first ombudsman system of a unanimous increase in 1952, and it is intended to guarantee the general human rights of defence personnel. The defence is based on a general duty of protection and the guardians have limited rights and are subject to a strict disciplinary system. All mandatory obligations to comply with orders. The defence staff may, with some limitations, be ordered to serve in international operations. Service in crisis and conflict can lead to the loss of life or the killing of our soldiers. It is important that these groups have special protection. Traditionally, the Ombudsman’s role has been to ensure the so-called general human rights of defence personnel. Economic and social rights, education and welfare work, canteens, personal equipment and clothing, diet and shelter have been central. Rambøll’s evaluation shows that today’s system works well. The Ombudsman is well-liked and respected – and used. The scheme is also seen as a resource and as a support player for several actors and as available to those in need of assistance. I support the majority's proposal and welcome the fact that the Stortinget wants to legislate the Ombudsman's defence subject. It is also gratifying that the Ombudsman is now being formalised his responsibility for persons who have served in international operations; I have long been in charge of this. The Ombudsman’s defence title therefore constitutes an important function. At the same time, it is important that statutory access rights are designed to be proportionate to that function. The general human rights of the personnel may be difficult to justify access to, or access to, the most protected data and objects in the Defence. Legal considerations also indicate that a legal text should be drawn up as precisely as possible. It should reflect the need for transparency in relation to the tasks to be addressed. The majority of the Committee proposes a more precise definition of Section 4. Anti-conflict mitigation and avoidance of undue misinterpretation or dispute over the limits of transparency can be expected. In the interests of our defence and preparedness, there are several aspects in the defence sector that require specific authorisation in order to gain knowledge. It may cover everything from locations, property, constructions to operations and planning. The proposal by the majority of the Committee takes account of its implications and is formulated in such a way that, in my view, it does not pose a risk to defence and preparedness. One of the requirements of the legislative process is that the norm to be designed should be adapted to the needs to be met, while leaving no further impact field to the design of the law. This argues that there is no need to extend supervisory rights in the form of laws. The Security Act requires those who are required to receive classified information. As long as the members of the denominator are cleared and authorised, they can participate in letters and lectures with classified content – as they have done before. That is why I disagree that this is a restriction of the mandate to the name. No, it's a continuation of the practice that's been conducted, and then it's written in law, so that we legislate the function of the denominator.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2539	The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2544	I registered that in terms of my invitation to explain the rules we have tightened up – when it came to transparency, which was supposed to be open and wide today – I have not received the justification from any of those who stand by this distinction. The Harberg Committee has been mentioned, and the Harberg Committee has also made a change, namely that it is not to deal with legal complaints at individual level. So the part you could say is more interesting for the Civil Protection Officer to treat. There is also, if you read in the setting, made a borderline against the Civil Ombudsman. In the areas where it can be said that the former had a certain lack of law enforcement, it is now more fine-tuning towards the welfare, which then targets not so much the individual's service relationship, but how it is organised for the group serving, in general. I think one should take this down a little bit and not try to assign this to be a body that controls defence policy on behalf of the Stortinge, because there are completely different bodies to that. Then you get into these circular arguments that the special representative Moxnes messed up into. I would like to end by saying that we changed the time of entry into force from 1 July to 1 October because it will better coincide with the election periods, so that you can make a re-election or give a new crew as the Storting finds it too good in view of the formation around 1 October. I also expect that no one would have hurt if it were to go a few days over, so that's said. Otherwise, I would also like to say that during the years known to you about the reports from the Defence Officer, the current legal situation, which is continuing and not being tightened up, has not been reported to the Stortinget as a hindrance to carrying out the mandate they have received. Then we'll see if any of the skeptics against assumption would get right in that it's going to be difficult to proceed with an unchanged state of law. I think many will be surprised if this happens, but in that case they can report it through the annual documents, Document No. Five, to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2559	The representative Martin Kolberg has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2564	There's no restriction. In the current instruction, there is nothing about this. And it's served us well, I agree. Then comes the Harberg Committee's proposal, and then why does the Ministry of Defense have such a huge interest in saying, "No, we really can't go on with the practice, we'd rather have a clear piece of legislation that says where the border goes." Why do you have that commitment -- if you were so satisfied with what it was, that you had a wide and open way of dealing with it? I'm not a lawyer, as the representative Tetzschner is, but I've been involved in a lot of things. And no one should say to me that not a law that gives a clear limitation can have its special purpose when you come to conflict situations. That's what I'm warning you about, and I'll repeat it for the last time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2573	I am also not a lawyer, but the reason why we have to limit this is that we are now delivering a law on Ombudsmanship. The right of access established by law is designed in such a way as to be proportionate to the function to be performed. It is not an unblemished requirement for a legal text. That's exactly according to the way we make laws in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2578	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2595	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2602	The Ombudsman’s defence title, too, has been, to the most extent, an exceptional year for 2020. As mentioned in the previous debate, the main activity of the denominator is the inspection of military camps and installations. For infectious diseases and corona causes, it has not been possible to implement this year, so that digital platforms have had to be used to fulfil this task. In 2020, as mentioned in the previous case, the Ombudsman was subject to a thorough evaluation of the Stortinget, under the direction of the Harberg Committee and the consultancy company Rambøll. It is gratifying to note that the conclusion in the recommendations of these evaluations is that the Ombudsman’s subject, established in 1952, is to be continued with relatively small changes. Amongst them, 41 cases have been dealt with during 2020 — and, in fact, few cases related to the coronary situation. Comparing the Norwegian Ombudsman’s name with foreign ombudsmen, it can be seen that similar subjects in other countries have dealt with much more issues related to the situation of the corona. The number of cases has been stable over many years. 2016 was a top year, with approx. 20 more cases than in 2020. Among issues and issues outside typical enquiries, mention can be made of the fact that the veterans have been involved in the legal situation, which has also been dealt with in Stortinget by new defence laws, the loss of security clearance for first-time personnel and the training of the defence in law, ethics and military authority. Finally, I would like to point out the fact that the name also gives credit and full support to the way the head of defence follows up the so-called MOST investigation, the investigation that revealed bullying and sexual harassment in the Defense to a certain extent. The Chief of Defense has intervened in this, and the name gives his full support to the way the Chief of Defense has dealt with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2615	There is no need to say much more than the rapporteur said now. It was very comprehensive for what is necessary to express in the Stortinget about the report from the denominator. I'm just doing it the most for now to express the respect I have for the work that is mentioned and the Ombudsman himself does, i.e. per person. Because it's like I said in my first post, in the second case, a work that helps the soldiers, but also helps the defense to deal with ongoing conflicts or challenges in the welfare field. It is important for the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman to know that it is appreciated by the Storting that this is done. That's what I think it applies to the defence part, too. It's an important work, and we're going to hope that when the pandemic steps back more for us all, they can get more involved in what's very important for them, namely being close to the soldiers in the field and in the alloys. I simply express respect for the work of the committee and refer to what the rapporteur has said in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2624	Yes, the Ombudsman addresses a number of key and important issues. I am very pleased about that, and I want to agree with the representative of Kolberg. They are important eyes and ears, even for a department, simply because they are out, and they have a position and role that makes them communicate well. Then it also stands quite well in the defense by day. The safety investigation shows that eight out of ten protected persons thrive well or very well in the defence. This figure has remained stable over several years. The study also shows that both women and men in the defence experience that the personal clothing and equipment now meet their needs. It's an improvement. The defence employee survey shows that the personnel are largely satisfied and motivated. So both studies show that there is a good working environment in the defense. It is also positive that the employee survey shows a decreasing trend in the previously reported high workload. This was also mentioned by the Defence Ombudsman in its document last year 5. The latest study on bullying and sexual harassment shows a slight decrease compared to 2018. It's a slowdown I'm far from happy with. I look particularly seriously at the extent of younger women in uniform. There is a need for more measures, in particular targeted at guardians and students. And let me make it clear: there's zero tolerance for bullying and sexual harassment in the defense. Like the denominator, I want to pay tribute to the Defense for having conducted a thorough, research-based study and for sharing the results. Here you contribute to more knowledge and more transparency, and that's the only way to overcome the misery. The warning systems and guidelines in the sector are good, but we need to work more on culture and attitudes, so that alerting is safe and effective. We issued new guidelines for warning in the sector last year. The Ministry of Defence follows closely the work of the Defence Department, and we will follow up with several different actions for the sector. At the same time, the Ministry has undertaken to develop a new study to identify bullying and sexual harassment in the rest of the sector. This will be ready for use in 2022. The total care of the defence personnel and guardians is important to me, and the trust regime in the defense made me aware of the varying standard of property, construction and construction, and disagreement about whether there were similar reports from the trade union about it. Therefore, Defence Building has been commissioned to carry out a professional check and to register the status of EBA, which is used by our guardians. In this work, trustees must be included. Last year, the government sent out the big message "And when it's required – veterans in our time". It was a development of the provision of veterans for international operations from the last ten years. I just want to conclude by saying that I am very pleased that the veterans are now included in the mandate of the Defence Agency. It will be a good arrangement for them too.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2647	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 24th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice. 25 and 26 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2678	The representative of the Bears Moxnes has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2683	There has been and remains a great deal of uncertainty as to whether accession to the fourth rail package of the EU can be achieved under the Constitution, as it is now stated. I sent yesterday a written question to the Council of State Hareide, which goes on one of the specific points of Norwegian sovereignty and interests, which, in the opinion of Red, must be resolved before the matter is dealt with. It is also pointed out by the Norwegian Lokomotivemannsförbund and relates to the contradiction between, on the one hand, government claims that with the fourth rail package of the EU, we will still be able to meet our national requirements for safety and control of Norwegian rail traffic, and that the State railway authorities will have the last words on safety on Norwegian rail, and, on the other hand, the Supreme Court conclusion that the EU will be able to review national courts, railway authorities and safety authorities. The EEA Agreement, which is Norwegian law, prohibits Norwegian administration from acting unfairly even if Norwegian safety reasons indicate that this is necessary. On this basis, in accordance with Section 41 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the matter be taken at a later meeting, so that these obvious deviations between the government's legal basis and the opinion of the Supreme Court can be settled, and that the matter be dealt with with by a less unclear legal basis from the government on how Norwegian sovereignty and national interests can be safeguarded. It should be possible for a majority in the Chamber to stand behind, I mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2692	A postponement proposal has been made in accordance with Section 41 of the Rules of Procedure. Then the President will open up a debate on the postponement proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2699	I'll be brief. I see no need for our part to postpone this matter. On the contrary, we believe that, through the consideration we have now received from the Supreme Court, we have been confirmed that the proposals made in connection with the rail package IV are of a low degree of intervention, and that there is reason, in this way, to deal with it normally in the Grand Duchy, as has been stated in the procedure here. So, for our part, we see no reason to support any postponement proposal in this case – on the contrary. I believe that the Supreme Court has confirmed that we have made it there that we can deal with this now in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2706	Proposal No. of the Central Party 2 in this case, we are asking the government to bring forward a new case for the Grand Duchy, where the opinions of the Supreme Court in its consideration of 26 March 2021 relating to the extent of the transfer of powers by inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Directive 2012/34/EU on a single European railway area and the acts constituting the fourth railway package have been further assessed. So we ask for the matter to come up on a later occasion through our proposal in this matter. It is in many ways a support for today's postponement proposal by the representative of Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2711	SV believes that there is no basis for Stortingen to deal with the matter at all. We have believed that there is more than little intrusive transfer of authority. That means that we can very well support a postponement as well. We take a step further and say that we cannot deal with the matter as it exists, on the basis that exists, and use the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. So we want to support a postponement, and then we get a clarification of that. And then we're probably back in the proceedings again, I think, as the hall would have meant. But we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2716	It is a little special to get something like that over the table, and I should like to see that this might have been signaled a little earlier. But on the basis that we believe that the matter has been clarified and that it has been in the Supreme Court, I think we can deal with the matter now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2721	Are there any others who are asking for the floor for the postponement proposal? - That's not what it looks like. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure provides that the proposal to postpone the case to a later Grand Meeting is to be examined immediately and decided by the President. Then the President decides that the matter will be dealt with today. At the request of the Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2732	First of all, I must thank the Committee for a long period of cooperation on this matter. We started with it in April last year, and we had a clear goal of getting it treated before the summer last year. On May 18, we had a hearing, and we think it was going on in a very good and democratic way. But the opposition asked when we were working on the matter, to postpone it until the fall, and we did. We dealt with it in the autumn, and then came the question of assessing what is legal in the Supreme Court. It was decided on 17 December that the Supreme Court should give its opinion on this matter and whether it could be legally adopted in the Grand Duchy by a simple majority. We've got an answer to that, and everyone knows what answer we've been given. We are now – fortunately – ready to deal with this matter, and I look forward to the debate today. Europe’s rail system has long been fragmented. Each country has its own technological standards, traffic rules and systems. This has hindered the development of train traffic between European countries. The great hope of the Left is that standardisation of train operation in Europe can help train operators to offer train journeys on more and longer distances than today. A direct train trip from Oslo to Hamburg should clearly be an attraction for Norwegian and international travellers. Domesticly, Norway has already established competition in freight transport and is in the process of establishing competition in all passenger train sections. There are therefore few or no changes in Norwegian railway policy. However, a revised collective transport regulation will have to be incorporated into Norwegian law by means of an implementing regulation. ERA, the European Railway Agency, has a single European Safety Certificate — it is the ones to issue it. This again means that all train problems and trains to be used by EEA countries must be approved by ERA. The fourth railway package aims at standardising cross-border traffic in Europe. Norway is part of Europe and the aim of the whole Directive is to strengthen rail as a means of transport. I'm looking forward to making this change. I don't think it's that big, as I've said now, as far as the practical part of the railway policy in Norway is concerned. We have full lines – the capacity is not large – so that we can fill up with other train companies who can offer an offer in parallel with what we have today. It is in practice abroad. In foreign traffic it is not filled up at all, and on the cross-border trains we have – from Trondheim to Stockholm, from Oslo to Gothenburg and, of course, also from Oslo to Stockholm – I think you have a great potential, and not least down in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2749	It is now over a year since the government presented the issue of the EU's fourth railway package for Stortinget. The reason why it has taken so long is firstly that the government had not obtained any opinion from the Ministry of Justice's law department in the matter. That's what Stortinget wanted. As the rapporteur also said, we received the opinion from the Legal Service, and then the majority in Stortinget became the majority to obtain the opinion from the Supreme Court, as the Constitution opens. So let me make it clear that there was a concern about the legal aspects of the question, about whether the transfer of authority was more than minor. From the Labour Party it has always been clear that this is a political matter, but we also thought it was right to get the Supreme Court's consideration of the legal aspects of the matter. And after the opinion from the Supreme Court, it was clearly established that this is politics and not juss. Fortunately, this is a political discussion: is it right to join the fourth railway package of the EU and the principles behind it? The fourth railway package of the EU consists of several directives and regulations. Let me just start by saying that there are of course elements that are positive in the railway package, but as the case is resolved, there is no way to vote for what you are for, and against what you are against. After an overall assessment, the Labour Party has come to the conclusion that we want to vote against Norwegian support for the fourth rail package of the EU, simply because it is a railway policy that we do not agree with. With a new Interoperability Directive and a new Railway Safety Directive, the EU Railway Agency, ERA, will be given new tasks and powers. For Norway, this will mean transferring decision-making powers from the State Railway Authority to ERA, transferring appeal authorities from the Ministry of Transport to the ERA Board of Appeal, and transferring judicial powers from Norwegian courts to the Court of Justice of the European Union. This means that authority is transferred to bodies where Norway is not a member. This is a breach of what we have so far suspended, the so-called topillary structure, for which the Minister of Transport has previously been a hot spokesman. This is special. In other cases, EFTA has set up parallel bodies and structures, so this is about transferring authority to a body where we are not members. So: the Single European Railway Area Directive requires the opening of competition on the rail network for national passenger services, i.e. the opening of the rail network to all companies – free competition on those routes where there is no public subsidy. And, according to the Public Transport Regulation, competition is, as a general rule, to be required in the award of contracts where public subsidies subsidise railway routes, so-called public procurement. This is a full opening of the railway network, a full liberalisation. This is a policy by which the Workers' Party is opposed. We also know that, during a transitional period, direct assignment of contracts with a maximum contract length of 10 years would have been possible, but as far as we know, the Norwegian Government has not wanted it. It's not really so surprising, because that's the starting point for this government's railway policy. When we dealt with the rail reform in 2015, it was from the government that everything that could be put on the rail market should be put out of competition. I repeat, everything that can be put off for competition is to be put off for competition. That is the policy of this government. So it is not surprising that the current government and the Progress Party – the bulk of the population – support the content of the fourth rail package of the EU. That's the railway policy they're running. The Labour Party is against it and will therefore also vote against the EU's fourth railway package.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2771	The EU Commission has designated 2021 as the EU railway year. The aim is to increase the proportion of people and goods transported by rail. This is in line with the objectives of the EU green growth strategy ‘Green Deal’, to which Norway has also joined. In addition to pointing to the railway as a sustainable mode of transport, the objectives of the railway year are to raise awareness of the European dimension of cross-border rail transport. However, it is worth noting that the European rail system has traditionally been designed according to national technical solutions and that the sector has been organised differently nationally. This poses a challenge for operators who run, or want to run, trains across borders. It must be an objective that all these barriers be reduced so that train traffic can pass seamlessly through Europe, such as day trains or night trains, passenger trains or freight trains. To achieve this, the EU has adopted several railway packages. This is the fourth in the sequence. The tasks of the European Union Railway Agency, ERA, are extended to harmonise vehicle authorisation and safety certification processes. This is done to reduce the disadvantages that both manufacturers and railway undertakings currently have in relation to application processes and approvals. The railway package shall simplify the process by bringing it together in a single procedure, a common portal for applications, where each railway vehicle requires only one authorisation, granted by ERA. During the consultation in Stortinget, the State Railway Authority summarised its opinion as follows: The fourth railway package will not impair the safety of the railway. Norwegian rail will continue to have one of the highest safety levels in Europe. Regardless of whether the package is adopted, companies in Norway have to deal with ERA if they want to drive in Sweden. Sweden is included in the fourth railway package and may not conclude agreements outside the common European system. The application for new and renewal of existing cross-border licences must be made in cooperation with ERA. The authorisation of cross-border rolling stock must be in cooperation with ERA. Material requirements are the same as those on the basis of which decisions are taken by the State Railway Authority. Norwegian companies operating only in Norway can still deal only with the State Railway Authority. In reality, there are very few changes from such a process today. Thus, the fourth railway package brings some elements of transfer of authority to ERA by allowing the ERA to issue common European Safety Certificates and Vehicle Permits. The transfer of authority is considered to be ‘low intervention’. This is why the Ministry considers that the consent of the Storting to participate in the decisions of the EEA Committee concerning the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of the fourth railway package may be adopted in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Basic Law. It might be a little strange that the minority has spent so much time and resources on the formal technical issues. The transfer of powers to ERA is a practical arrangement since these are tasks for which EFTA is not competent. Only Norway has a railway of some extent. Iceland and Liechtenstein don't have it. In addition, the safety certificate and vehicle authorisation are to a small extent political. It's funny when it's a problem from Jussprofessor Eriksen that ERA should revoke security certificates in the Vygruppen. First of all, it's a terrible case. What would mean that the State's own company would not satisfy the safety requirements? Secondly, I expect that the state's own railway supervision would have pulled the emergency brake long before it had come so far. It is also surprising that the rail enthusiasts in the SV and the Workers' Party do not see the great thing about the EU not only having designated 2021 for the European Railway Year, but are taking another important step in the right direction to achieve it, with common safety requirements and common vehicle permits. Not least, they open the way for rail transport to take place through the dismantling of border barriers. That's what it's all about when it's written about access to the tracks. Then it's about what possibilities Vy will have to set up routes down to the continent, or how freight trains can pick up goods from the continent and transport them to, for example, North Norway. So I know that the resistance to the fourth railway package is not really about vehicle licenses and safety certificates, topillars or one-pillars, but that it's about protectionism, the fear that someone out there was going to discover a market here on the mountain.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2806	I have great respect for the concern of both employees and trustees working in the railway sector. This is always the case when there are new directives and new consequences for the job situation, and it must be respected. The reason why we are now dealing with the fourth rail package of the EU, if we are to include it in the EEA Agreement, is that we have introduced three other directives in the past. The first thing we introduced already in the 1990s, when the Labour Party had the Prime Minister and ruled. Railway Packages II and III were introduced under the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, and they were also quite intrusive in terms of their consequences. I think it's okay to have this with you, because when you listen to the debate, it sounds like it's introducing a directive that's the problem. Then I dare remind you that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Swedish Government have introduced a number of directives that have had far greater consequences, both for the citizens of Norway and for others. But it's obviously competition that's alarming and what you're really very skeptical about. The party is committed to the protection of Norwegian sovereignty. A large majority with the Advance Party therefore asked the High Court to assess whether a connection to the fourth railway package could lead to Norway transferring powers to the EU in an unconstitutional manner. A unanimous Supreme Court held that the transfer of authority to the EU Railway Agency was to be considered as ‘a small intervention’. The point of the railway package is to facilitate increased competition in domestic train traffic and under equivalent conditions. That's something we in the Progress Party think is good. When we were in government, we made sure to launch several sections, which will provide savings in the billions class and a better offer to the passengers. Competition is good for the users. For example, the outsourcing of the Gjøvik track led to 40 pst. more transport for the money. This benefits individuals and businesses. The railway package shall simplify and red tape the process of authorising new or modified train equipment and of issuing safety certificates to the train operators. Today it must be given in each country. That countries have to deal with the same rules of security, I think, is wise. There are many of the same things in aviation and shipping. If all countries had their very special rules, it would quickly become chaos and, in the worst case, pose a risk. However, it is still the Railway Authority that is to be responsible for the effective compliance with safety requirements on the Norwegian railway network. Another element of the railway package is that it will standardise some cross-border traffic systems. So it's going to be easier and less bureaucratic to drive trains across borders. This is particularly important for the transport of goods. The railway has slowed down aft as a form of transport. Both competition and simpler common rules can give the railway a long-term boost, and that is what it is all about: providing even better rail and making it even more competitive in relation to other modes of transport. Then it's strange that those who are most opposed today are the ones who say they are the most for having more railways, and that the railway should strengthen its competitiveness. That's pretty special. Norwegian trains will not be run by bureaucrats in Brussels. This is about opening up more competition – which, of course, is not popular on the left-hand side – and the need to have the most common rules on safety and cross-border transport. As the representative Sverre Myrli said, there are arguments, and there are arguments against. The special thing here is that the Workers' Party is now suddenly voting against something they always vote for. Had they been in government, they would probably have voted for it. For the Progress Party it is definitely a balance, but we have come to this, as the representative of Myrli said, that one must choose. You can't pick one or the other, you have to decide on everything. Then we have concluded that we are going to support that proposal, because we believe that competition is good, we believe that competition is healthy, and we believe that it is about giving customers an even better offer in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2821	Today, the government parties and the Progress Party will report Norwegian rail into the EU. The main point of the centre party is that it is the people who live in Norway who are to rule over Norwegian railway policy, not the EU. The centre party is opposed to splitting up and launching Norwegian railways, but we believe that this issue should be decided by the majority of the population and not by the EU in the future. The centre party believes that this is also about safety on the railway. The Norwegian geography and the Norwegian climate mean that what is safe and approved in Spain is not necessarily safe on the mountain sections of Bergensbanen and Nordlandsbanen. The Central Party considers that the Storting cannot consent to the participation of two decisions of the EEA Committee on the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Directive 2012/34/EU on a single European railway area and the acts constituting the fourth railway package. The opinion of the Supreme Court on the question asked by the Stortinget, whether the transfer of authority is of little intervention, is based on the practice of the Stortingen and therefore does not contain a real independent opinion as to whether the transfer of authority is intervention or not. The Party will stress that the draft Decision of the EEA Joint Committee, as described in Prop. 101 LS for 2019-2020 violates key principles of the EEA Agreement and the so-called ‘topillar’ system. In this case, the transfer of authority will take place directly to the EU body and not to the EEA/EFTA body. This involves the transfer of authority to a body of which Norway is not a member. In addition, the Government’s proposal allows the European Commission to lay down general rules which are binding on the European Railway Agency before those rules are incorporated into the EEA Agreement. This means that, in reality, legislative powers will be transferred to the bodies of the European Union. The centre party has fought for a different decision in this matter than the majority of the population are now in favour. We longed to hope that the Progress Party, which continues to say no to Norwegian membership of the EU, would land correctly in this case and not report Norwegian rail into the EU. I would like to point out that the EEA Agreement does not provide for a general right to withdraw from EU legislation that Norway has previously accepted to include in the EEA Agreement. At the same time, the EEA Agreement does not contain any explicit provision that it should not be possible to do so. Article 92(1) of the EEA Agreement 2 states that the Contracting Parties to the EEA shall ‘consult the EEA Committee on all matters relevant to the Agreement which cause difficulties and which are raised by one of them’. Furthermore, the EEA Committee may decide to amend the Annexes to the EEA Agreement. Norway has made an independent decision on whether to use the right of reservation against the legislation of the fourth railway package. This is not a result of negotiations in which Norway has received a counter-performance from the EU. So I believe that there is reason Norway should be able to withdraw from the fourth railway package, whether it becomes a majority for it in this room, and be handled in accordance with the general rules of the EEA Reservation Agreement. The Central Party wants to take care of and strengthen the Norwegian People's Government. I'm addressing proposal No. 1, promoted by the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, and proposal No. 2, which is a proposal from the Central Party. The proposal of the Central Party is that the Ministry’s legislative department has not carried out an independent investigation to identify possible cases of transfer of authority but has based it on a description in the proposition and that the critical observations of the Supreme Court have not been taken into account. It should, so the matter should be sent back.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2838	The representative, Siv Mossleth, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2843	This is a dark day for all railway lovers and for all those who want important infrastructure in Norway to be managed by national authorities. I see this matter to a large extent together with several other issues that characterise good right-wing policy – with privatisation, tendering and fragmentation in a good New Public Management spirit. We can think of what the right government has done with road construction in this country: hacked up and shared responsibility among many actors. There has been a brain drain and a fight for good heads between many actors – two state road companies, private consultants – and the professional environment has been largely destroyed. There will be double driving and responsible powdering, as appropriate. The exact same thing happened to the railway. Now it has been hacked into many pieces, so that Norwegian railway management is not going to recognize it. There are a lot of rail people who were involved in building up Norwegian railways that are now turning around in the tomb. What's happened? There are countless state companies that are going to buy and sell services to each other. I thought in my naivety that this was a wave that at many meetings was abandoned. Large companies have tried all the world's systems, with internal billing, fragmentation and sharing of responsibility. They have left it to a great extent, most of them. It's got a stamp: not successful. But what's probably behind this, in a right-wing ideology, is not that there should be a lot of state companies. No, what is behind is the next step – that it should be privatised and tendered. Through the first packages, the release of goods and international actors on Norwegian rails came. Now Go-Ahead and others are invited on Norwegian rails for passenger transport. I shall not say more about the railway reform than two things: the story of the fact that we have made an incredible number of billions in this reform is wrong. It has never been refuted, my claim that the government has compared apples and bananas when the gain was to be measured. Nor has it been that there have been some years to measure what has really happened. The second point is that if there had been any gain by making a bid, something would have gone wrong. If it were to compete with the same trains, the same rails, the same ticketing system, the pay and working conditions would be affected. It's the only factor you can do anything with. Staff must run faster, as in aviation. It is no wonder that organisations are strongly opposed – such as the Norwegian Railway Association and the Norwegian Lokmotivmannsförbund, which we met at a pleasant meeting outside Stortinget today, with a bit of seriousness and with grief bands on their tabs. If the fourth railway package is incorporated into Norwegian legislation, this tendering system will become mandatory, at least in practice. This means that a new government cannot change this hysteria, whether you like it or not. Ida, there's toothpaste tube talking here, too. If the government is accused of being paralysed in many cases, it is not about privatisation. That's what they do – at fast speed, actually. SV believes that the Storting cannot deal with this proposition and consent to the inclusion of the fourth railway package in the EEA Agreement. With strong support from external legal environments, we believe that the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution, on which the government is based, cannot be applied in this case. In our view, this is a transfer of powers to EU bodies that are more than ‘small in intervention’, as it says, and the EU is not a member of. For the most part, I have noted that the Council of State of the Christian People's Party is on a collision course with an authority that the EEA members usually listen to, namely ESA President Bente Angell-Hansen. Last October, she said straight to the EFTA Ministers: Time is ripe to see that the EEA-EFTA pillar is well served to follow the ruplar structure that makes the EEA Agreement so unique. Once a one-pillar solution has been reached, it undermines the possibility of bringing a case before the EFTA Court. Let me interpret this as knowing better the basis of the EEA Agreement than the ESA President. I think the Council of State and the Government were somewhat nervous about the reaction of our EFTA colleagues, Liechtenstein and Iceland. There has been an extensive e-mail exchange between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Iceland on the fourth railway package, i.e. with a country that does not have one metre of railway. There must be an important reason for Iceland and Liechtenstein to deviate from the top pillar structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2862	The railway will transport people around the country, not money out of the country. Red wants a common state railway that operates without profit motive, but what the government is doing with – fragmentation and privatisation – is destroying the good Community solutions that we have built up through generations in Norway with Community funds. Ensuring continued democratic control of our rail system is the first step towards ensuring a good rail service for people across Norway's country. Today, with the Progress Party as tailhangings, the government will place Norwegian railways under the authority of the EU and ensure privatisation for all future. Red will keep the railway under the control of the community, and we want to reverse the government's so-called railway reform, to ensure that money allocated to the railway goes to the railway and does not end up in the pocket of capitalists with head offices at Cayman Islands. This is how we ensure that new large numbers can control the railways politically, for example. as part of an overall transport plan to cut climate emissions and to transport from truck and trailer to rail. Therefore, it is sad to see that the government is pushing through the fourth rail package of the EU just before a choice. If the package is introduced, we may lose the ability to decide sovereignly on the safety and organisation of the railway, and tenders, privatisation and outsourcing may become mandatory in the future. That is why an overall workforce side, with the LVG at the head, has also been clearly approaching the fourth rail package of the EU. In addition, it is unclear whether the inclusion of this railway package at all is constitutionally valid. The government claims that with the railway package, we will still be able to meet our national requirements for safety and control of traffic on Norwegian rail, and that the State Railway Authority will continue to have the last word on the safety of our rail. However, the Supreme Court concludes that the EU will be able to review national railway authorities, safety authorities and courts, and states that the EEA Agreement, which is Norwegian law, prohibits Norwegian administration from acting unfairly, even if Norwegian safety reasons indicate that there is a need for it. You don't get much of a clean word for the money. This is on top of the fact that the law department has not carried out an independent investigation, but based on what is stated in the proposition, and it argues that the case should have been postponed until the legal decision was taken. It's also unclear how much national self-determination is in this pot. Then it is particularly discouraging to see that the Progress Party, which at least in the media is talking about national sovereignty, is today agreeing to notify Norwegian railways into the EU together with the rest of the civil parties. The Norwegian people have said no to the EU twice. Nevertheless, with the votes of the Progress Party, the government will now submit us to a railway package that will lead to social dumping and less self-determination. We don't think that's worth it. Red therefore proposes that the railway package be decided by means of an advisory referendum in line with the best Norwegian democratic traditions. Red will also ensure that the Stortinget retains the right to rule over the railways over the coming generations. We get safer and better train travel without interference from the EU. Our proposal for an advisory referendum is the first step towards taking the railway back into public ownership. If railway package IV is adopted today, Red will take the initiative to reverse the inclusion at the end of the harvest, and we will challenge the other red-green parties – the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV – to support such an initiative and reverse the inclusion as soon as we have won the election. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2883	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2888	The representative of Moxnes also raised the question he sent to the ministry. We're going to answer that as quickly as we can, but what I can say is that Supreme Court's representation when it comes to the transfer of authority does not differ significantly from the government's production, and that will naturally be the answer. We've been gathering in this room to discuss this matter before. I'm not thinking about how the Stortinge is dealing with the Supreme Court, but what has happened since then is that we've received an assessment from the Supreme Court, and not all state councils are happy to get feedback from the Supreme Court that one has done a very good job. I thought I'd put it on my own -- I don't expect anyone else to say it from this pulpit. But I want to say thank you for it should go to the competent people who work in the department, and of course also the Justice Department's law department. We have over a period of approx. 30 years passed through the gradual development of the framework conditions for the railway sector. Over the time that has passed, we have gone away from the whole integrated model where the NSB did absolutely everything. We now have a more modern rail sector, with specialised companies providing the best possible use of capacity and continuous development of services for the best interests of customers. We think this development is a necessary commitment for our railway effort to be successful. Some have said that this is a sad day for the railway. If you're happy on the railway, this is a very good and positive day for the railway. This helps to further develop the railway in international cooperation. To support this is to say that we will bet on the railway. If someone wanted us not to say yes to this railway package, it should be the road sector, aviation, the coast – that is, those who compete with the railway. But those who want to lift the railway should definitely take a positive look at this. Norway participated in EU rail policy through the EEA Agreement. This has been a significant development in society since we joined the EEA Agreement in the 1990s, and the railway sector looked different then. The government's offensive effort on the railway has taken place within the framework of the EEA Agreement. Each country decides its own national railway policy and is free to choose both about and how one will bet on the railway. With earlier rail packages and regulatory developments, we have had a gradual but very careful opening up of the market for train services. Norway is ahead of this development, and we now see that healthy and well planned and implemented competition works. Resistance has been great, and the market opening in the rail sector has gone much slower than we have seen for other modes of transport. Freight transport has now been liberalised for a period. In 2007, international passenger train services were liberalised with the right to cabotage. Now the national passenger train markets are on their way. But we're not talking about a complete release. The railway sector will continue to be strictly regulated because clear rules for the allocation of capacity, security requirements, etc. are necessary. But we want the actors to act in such a way that one will develop the services for the benefit of travellers and in a way that attracts new customer groups. Only then can we get the promise we want to give the railway. With the earlier railway packages, one has said that an open gradually and controlled when it came to opening up the rail markets. But there were still some things that didn't work satisfactorily. The railway situation in Europe around 2010 was not different from the one we had here in Norway. A comprehensive rail sector pointed to the challenge of different national practices for the recognition of train equipment and the roll-out of new systems. That's what we're now following up, just getting more cooperation across the borders and giving the railway a lift. The answer here is our ERA Railway Agency, where we have had a natural role, and where we are fully involved. That's where the further work is now happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2905	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2910	With the fourth railway package, Norway will assign powers to the European Railway Agency and to the European Court of Justice. There's no doubt about it, and it's also written by the government itself. There is not enough disagreement and, to use such a concept, the learners are fighting whether there is also a transfer of authority to the European Commission. In any case, there is a transfer to the European Railway Agency and to the European Court of Justice. The development of more and more agencies and the supervision of EU cooperation is, of course, something that was also addressed by the European investigation in its time. We can discuss that later. So by transferring authority to the Railway Agency and to the Court of Justice, we're breaking the so-called topillary structure. The Topilar structure implies that, within the EU, the EU has its bodies and EFTA countries parallel bodies and structures. My question is: what has Norway done in the process of not breaking the so-called topillary structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2922	That's right, there's not a two-pillar system we're setting up here, and it's true that there's little interventional transmission going on. I mean, what we're doing here is the exact same thing as we do for aviation, the exact same regulation that we have for aviation in the EEA. I also believe that it is important to understand that the State Railway Authority is involved in the cases where ERA will take decisions, and it is the State Railway Authority that will exercise control and supervision. I also mean it's very positive that we have a common body that sits on the kind of technical competence that we have here. I think we should be very honest about that. We do not have that type of competence on the EEA page. The Railway Authority also has the possibility to pull the emergency brake if necessary within the current legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2931	If we understand the proposition and the background documents correctly, it would be possible to have a transitional period of ten years before one had to comply with the provision of the so-called collective transport regulation that there would be competition and tenders in the award of contracts where public subsidies subsidize railway routes, that is, what we call public procurement. Then one could have had direct allocation with a maximum contract length of ten years. Has the Norwegian Government taken advantage of this possibility, i.e. that during a transitional period of up to 10 years it could have chosen to have direct allocation, or has the government proposed that everything should be carried out preferably without taking advantage of the transitional possibility of 10 years? What has been the government's policy here?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2938	In fact, I've been surprised that the followers of direct allocation don't think that you can benefit from the exception that's here. There is no doubt that there is an exception here, as the representative of Myrli points out, and it can of course benefit you. It seems that you do not believe that direct allocation is of better quality to services than it is to offer. It is the arrangement and, when it is fulfilled, it may be followed up. It's like part of the premise here, and there's no reason to doubt that possibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2943	We in the Progress Party are happy on the road, and in particular the European roads – E6, E18, E39, E16, E14, E45, etc. As we approach the Swedish border or take the boat to Denmark, it is even more joy. Then we're very satisfied, because then we can drive with Progress Party speed limits – then it's 120 and 130 km/h. Europe’s roads are only getting better and better the further down in Europe — especially when crossing the border. The arbitration rules are standardised and harmonised, including in the case of information signs and other sign codes. But to come to Europe and drive in Europe, you depend on having a driving licence. In order for the driving licence in Norway to be valid in Europe, a common regulatory framework is needed. What is the opinion of the Council of State that the Norwegian or European road map would look like if it had not been possible to drive in Europe with a Norwegian driving licence? You can see the comparison between rail and road, car and sign.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2950	Since it's the railway we're talking about, I can agree with the representative Johnsen that then we can talk about both 120, 130 and 140 km/h. But I think the representative Johnsen has a good point – how well we work together in Europe on the road, how we are now developing the possibility of working with European roads, including on the sign page. Now it might be an exception for the signs that the Progress Party created in government, which were quite personal. I guess we can't go with them beyond the borders of the country. It shows that we have good cooperation when it applies to everyone else. It's the whole idea behind this railway package, that we should get better cooperation on the train side as well. That's why it's a little surprising for me to experience the resistance to something as technical as we talk about here, and that kind of authority transfer. I share the point that we have good European cooperation on the road side. We must also have it on the railways.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2955	I expect the Council of State was happy when he could talk about higher speed limits than the representative Johnsen did. On the railway we can talk quickly about both 200 and 220 km/h, and up to 250 km/h in most cases. When I hear individual representatives say here that this means that Norway is about to be notified into the EU – as the representative Moxnes was up here and said – and that the only way to get better offers was to have poorer pay and working conditions, it might be interesting to hear if the Council of State believes that this directive is so intrusive that it is about a waiver of sovereignty, which is about to enter the EU. It's not like that, for example. The Gjøvik track is a good example of getting a much better train offer without having to cost more money and disappearing into foreign companies and tax havens, which were occupied by the representative of Moxnes?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2962	It's quite right, as the representative Hoksrud says, we're going to have full power over our railway. But yes, there will be some leaders close to supply, close to competition and close to modernizing the railway. But that means I have to be very good for those who want to join in betting on the railway. I want to give honor to Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, who reversed developments on the railway in 2010. After that, we've put more money into the railways, and we also have to do it in the future. What we are doing to adopt today will give a boost to the Norwegian railway system – that we can also see international cooperation. That is why I believe that those who talk about Norwegian rail entering the EU have not understood what we are actually doing today. We have full power over our railway, we have full power to control him, and the decision of Stortinget gives the possibility to really bet on the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2967	Both Norwegian Railway Federation and Norwegian Locomotivemannsförbund have been clearly opposed to this undermining of national political control over the Norwegian railway sector. The fourth railway package involves offers and competition for absolutely everything relating to public purchases, not only passenger traffic, but also all that is involved in subcontracting. Is the Council of State comfortable in questioning and overstepping the trade movement completely in this matter? And for what interests is the Council of State really running good for?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2974	I would like more support from the trade movement. The trade union movement is doing a very important job for the railway, and I would like to see them more positive. And I'm thinking we'll work on it. I refer to the perspective that, among other things, The railway authorities of the State have pointed out here, this is about the Agency now granting licences and certificates of safety. They shall not grant permission to the infrastructure; they shall not oversee or control the operation. These tasks are still available to the national security authorities. It will also be possible for direct allocations. We think that's the best way to do this. This is in order to achieve better cooperation primarily in a technical area within the EU. I hope that the trade union movement when they see how this works will also be more positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2983	At the end of my post, I took up the extensive correspondence between the Norwegian Government, through the U.D., and Iceland and probably Liechtenstein as well. I did not get any insight into the entire correspondence of – I kept saying – constitutional reasons, the security of the state, or what was the reason. My point is just, and I'm going to try to formulate myself quite carefully and carefully now: can the Council of State say something about what that correspondence has been about? Is it about how Norway explains that we deviate from the toppilar structure – is it what correspondence has been about? Can the Council of State say something that at least approaches an information to most people?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2988	I myself do not fully understand the dialogue between the U.D. and Iceland. But we all know that in such cases there is a dialogue with the other EFTA countries. That's because we have to have a common agreement before we go into such work. So we know that when it comes to such directives, as I said, Norway is out quite quickly. We've been out here early and done good work early. We need these countries with us. When I went into my new role, it was among other things. a dialogue with Liechtenstein. Then we tried to get a clarity in their stand before we went to the Stortinget in April 2020. Now I know there is a need to have a dialogue with Iceland and get their assessments, but my expectation is that there will be a consensus in the EFTA countries as well. From the time you have such an agreement, these directives will be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e2998	Then you'll have the cord shift over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3005	I have to say that this debate reminds me a little about storm in a glass of water, a theoretical and constructed fear. I really don't understand the problem. I feel it becomes very artificial. But I'm impressed by how much resistance the left side has managed to mobilize, in cooperation with the Center Party, to prevent the train passengers and business in Norway from getting a better train offer. I have to say that is quite impressive, because I cannot quite understand that getting competition is a big problem and that getting consumers and passengers a better offer is a problem. That's interesting. But it's a little bit typical of the socialists, that's it. They do not want competition, they want monopoly. They want customers to have only one alternative and no alternative solutions. That's a little bit of a shame. It'll be a little bit of an interesting double communication and inconsistency. My colleague, Hoksrud, was in the middle of a very good point, which I know the Workers' Party would rather not talk about, and at least not the Center Party, and that is that the process that has led us to the debate we have here today started already in the 1990s. This is the fourth package we're talking about, and it was the last government that started work on implementation and cooperation across the borders on the railway side. So it's going to be a little bit of a special debate. We do not have a similar debate on the European roads. They're standardized. In the case of driving licences, which I was in the middle of my question to the Council of State instead: there had not been many holiday trips to Spain or car trips to Sweden, there had not been cooperation across the borders on the road. This is not about EU membership or supporting the EU or not. I take a great distance from that. At least I'm not even an EU member. I don't know many people in the Progress Party who are either. This is about ensuring that people in Europe have a good transport offer, and that Norway should not be an isolated island, but that we should be part of it. Then I find it interesting that when the transport committee was in Berlin, the representatives from both the SV, the Workers' Party and the Senter Party experienced themselves how fine it is with competition. The train we were supposed to take, a Deutsche Bahn train, was set. But we just waited 15 minutes on the platform in Berlin, and then there came a train from the Czech Republic that we jumped on and drove on to Hamburg. It had not happened that they had not had cross-border cooperation in Europe. I expect that Arne Nävra, who is very happy to drive trains, has probably been on many Interrail trips. At least I had a round with it when I was 18-year-old and full of hormones and I was happy to get out a little bit of the world. Then I drove many different trains and just jumped on one after the other across Europe. It wouldn't have been possible if the opposition and the socialists in this room had been able to decide. I think it's okay to get this case landed and get it over with. It is also important to remember that freight transport, which I know is very busy with the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV, is also dependent on cross-border cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3022	This isn't about what's going to be decided. It's about who's going to decide. A basic value of the Norwegian People's Government is that decisions taken by Norwegian citizens are taken by Norwegian people's elected representatives. Norwegian elected representatives may be replaced by elections if the citizens disagree with the decisions taken. In recent years, we have seen repeated examples of the right-wing parties giving sovereignty from the populace of the Grand Duchy to an EU bureaucracy in Brussels. It's become a habit. We have seen this in the Acer case and with the EU financial supervision, where the Stortingen gave Norwegian control and power over energy policy and the EU can take binding decisions against Norwegian financial undertakings. The Central Party has lost the fight against these directives from Brussels. Unfortunately, the right-wing parties have made sure that they have a majority. For us, the Stortinge must decide that if there is a consensus about it, it will be so that if there is a new large number, you cannot choose another scheme. That's what's happening. The last in the series of proposals for a waiver of sovereignty that came from the government is just this package. It consists of the two parts that have been discussed over and over again: one is the market part, which opens up the possibility for train companies established in one Member State to provide services in all others, which means that all train routes must be tendered. If it's not politics, if it doesn't have anything to do with who's going to decide, I have trouble seeing what this is about in practice. It's also part of the technical thing, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, The Government considers that the fourth railway package involves a small in-depth transfer of authority to the EU and that the Stortinge can adopt the case as a general majority. We've been against that. Even the Supreme Court has assessed it in this way and has argued that the Storting has already put in place that kind of practice. That's what's a lot of the opinion from the Supreme Court, and that's what's being signaled. It is essential to stress that it is for the Grand Duchy to decide definitively whether that provision allows the consent of the transfer of powers to which the case relates and that the Court of First Instance's assessment of that fact is only advisory. This is politics, as Sverre Myrli said. In practice, this means that all sections are to be tendered. The EU determines how competition is to be conducted and determines technology, rail traffic, signalling systems and safety requirements, irrespective of where trains run.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3037	There are several speakers here – from Gunnes, from Igstad, from Johnsen and, to some extent, from the Council of State – who say that we are talking about just about standardisation rules. Had there been only standardisations, SV would have voted for the whole railway package. It would have been very easy if it was just the rail size or the width we talked about, but it's not – it's much more intrusive things we're talking about here. So I think it's a little weird to make the standardisation argument. We have then driven trains across the borders before – everyone must have done it, to Sweden and further down – and it has worked like that. It's not like you're being woken up to check some new standards on the road, this has gone well so far. Remember, too, that we could have done just like the European Union, in all areas, if we wanted to. If the national government, the Stortinget, the Norwegian authorities decided to do this, we could only have followed them and copied them – if we would, if that were the case. But that's not what it is. I think the government thought that the fourth railway package would slide very easily through the Stortinget. They took it very easy. The case was not even within the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice. Think about it – it wasn't. No, it was going to slide very easily, there was no resistance to seeing here. Then the Stortinget somehow got the government to ask the Law Department, and then the answer came from there, and then it was really my own big number that fixed it so that we also had to get the opinion from the Supreme Court, also thanks to the fact that the Advance Party thought this was a bit exciting legal material. Perhaps some authorities were transferred to an EU body, and there we are not actually members. Then we got an answer from the Supreme Court, and I have to say, was it really so much different to wait from the Supreme Court when we think a little bit about it? They had no legal practice to refer to. That is usually what the Supreme Court can do, they can refer to legal practices or the interpretation of previously similar cases. We didn't have that in practice. What did they have to do? Well, they had to look at the legislator's practice or interpretation of the Constitution – and the legislator, it's us here. So it was a circle ending. Because the legislator's interpretation has been like that, it's a correct interpretation. That's really what happened. Then I must say that I am very disappointed in the Advancement Party. It is a transfer of authority to the EU. It's an organ we're not a member of. I thought the Advance Party was concerned with maritime governance and that we should be masters of our own house. I am also amazed that the Progress Party has not opposed it, because the people are against it. Have they lost their thermometer on the people?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3050	This is a well-known debate. We've had it before, and we're going to continue it again. I just want to link some comments to what has emerged in the debate so far. After all, Moxnes went up the entire legal backlog related to whether we can deal with this matter in Stortinget today or not. Both the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court have made an assessment of whether this is a low level of interventional transfer of authority or not. Of course, both the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court ended up in the practice of the Stortinget as a legislative authority itself. Of course they do. Who else is going to define this better than the Storting itself as a legislative authority? So I don't think there's any particularly difficult or strange ending. At least we have received a legal assessment from the Supreme Court that the decision and assessment made in this particular case are in fact in line with the practice of the Storting itself. So a little bit to what the matter is really about. What are we really talking about? Yes, we want to take part in European railway cooperation, in the sense that it makes sense to harmonise and standardise legislation. It makes sense to have common licence rules, for example: in the same way that we do in aviation. Why is this much more difficult for the railway than it is in aviation, when we have a more or less equivalent system? I think that makes sense. For those of us who also want us to facilitate more cross-border train traffic, it must make sense to have a common code to build on, and a common standardised and harmonised system for both certification, approval of train equipment, etc. So to maybe the core of the question, what it's really about, and it's outsourcing. That's probably what the opposition is against. There's a political difference. Some of us believe that using tenders also in the railway sector is a sensible tool to get the best possible service for people at the lowest possible cost. This is quite common in the transport sector, in the transport sector. We do so in the public transport sector, in the ferry sector and in other areas of the transport sector, in order to get the best possible offer at the lowest possible cost. Why should this be so much more difficult in the railway sector? I just don't understand that. With regard to the rhetoric that some people are using here, saying that we are now notifying the railways into the EU – no, we have full power over our own railway, but we are serving, and we are working on, to have as much common legislation as possible, and to make sure that the railway can become even more attractive, also as a cross-border transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3071	Once again, the bulk of population makes sure that they give power to the EU in vital areas. This time it is Norwegian railway policy and Norwegian railway safety. I record that the Council of State prints the opinion of the Supreme Court to its chest and fastens with a wide pen that we can have full power over the Norwegian railway. But then I wonder if the council has taken the trouble to read what the Supreme Court actually writes in its assessment. Because in essential areas, the Supreme Court concludes that the transfer of authority we are facing is more extensive than what the government and the Council of State have presented to the Stortinget. Firstly, the Supreme Court concludes that the European Commission may adopt new legislation which becomes binding on Norway before it is incorporated into the EEA Agreement. Secondly, with regard to Norway’s ability to have temporary stoppage measures, where the Ministry concludes that it can also be done after a decision has been taken by the European Railway Agency and the arbitration panel, the High Court concludes the opposite and states that such action by the Norwegian side would be considered unfair to the EU rules on free movement. At the end, the issue we are going to deal with today is politics. The use of the Supreme Court is the practice used by the Grand Duchy over time to give EU powers a step forward in new areas. That is why the Storting must take care to break that practice and ensure that such practices no longer exist, where we give authority, not only to the EEA body, but also directly to the EU. So to the party of progress in this matter: Here the party of progress shows its true self. Clearly, the party in progress is not so concerned about having national power. As long as you can carry out what the Progress Party itself is concerned about, you can use the EU and the EEA as a breakwater for it. This is the question of Norway being forced into a system through the decision of the majority of the population by which decisions on whether to compete on the railways or not will not be taken in the future, for that decision has been added to the EU. It is highly unwise that the majority of the population, unfortunately, take the decision to which it is based.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3086	How has our railway evolved, and how is our railway going to develop? Some say that we now have more directors than we have sleeping cars. It is claimed here that we are totally dependent on standardisation against the EU to achieve cross-border rail, but it is rail tracks that are missing, not transfer of powers, in order to get to cross-border rail. In Trøndelag, we're out of power. There are trains waiting to get into Trondheim. In fact, the government’s railway reform has gone beyond the EU railway package. Our railway is broken up, and the responsibility is powdered. How Can It Be a Better Railway? where cleaners are put out to tender and have to pay for the same task; when the technical professional environment crumbles because they are put out to tender and are unsure whether they have a job in the future; after the maintenance of the railway has changed the employer four times in two years; when travellers do not know where they can get a ticket, or how they will be refunded a ticket if there is no travel, and when the ticket price has doubled? I want to describe a common problem for employees: the railway directorate will not grant money to Bane NOR to establish an external charge for new trains. This means that four train sets have to go all night on the diesel engine at idle to get power enough to start up the train in the morning. It is not particularly for cooperation, and it is responsible powdering. One becomes much less flexible, and trainsets cannot be inserted between the various operators who have won tenders, with the consequence that passengers are seated on a train bus instead of a train mover. It's a shame the government doesn't listen to the employees. In England they have tried privatisation, outsourcing and fragmentation. Now they pull the emergency brake, and so should we.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3110	I come from a railway family. When I was little, we went to the railroad ski, when we were going on vacation, it was on railway cabins, and when I was going to have my first job, it was like a railway worker on the Gjøvik Railway. It was going on interrail as soon as I got old enough, and as an adult I worked on rail and rail public transport for decades. I have to say, I really don't understand this resistance to railway package IV. This is a good day for all those who want to have a better railway in Norway, but not least a better railway in Scandinavia and towards Europe and the continent, with common regulatory design and also a common safety system, to be developed over time. It is important that we are part of this European cooperation, a Europe of which we are betting on the railways – really rates on the railways – and of which we need to be part. Where air transport in the past became more and more international, road traffic has become more and more international, rail is a form of transport which is also becoming more and more international, and it is important to have coordinated legislation across borders. It is not that we lose responsibility for the railways in Norway. It is the will here in Stortinget that determines whether we have a good offer or not. There are, of course, a number of different ways in which tenders can be made, and there are other organisational ways, including in the future. This is an important decision, and I'm really glad that we have a majority to finally get this implemented. It is right that we on the left believe that we should be even more integrated into the EU and become part of the EU with a Norwegian membership, but until then we need to be part of European cooperation and cooperation on rail, and rail package IV is an important basis for setting up a modern rail system in Scandinavia against Europe in order to develop Norwegian railways further.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3123	Today morning, the faction leaders of the transport committee were in Eidsvoll's place and received a letter from the federal leaders of the Norwegian Railway Federation and Norwegian Locomotivemannsbund, who are now very concerned about what is happening to Norwegian Railways. I think perhaps those who now almost ridicule the resistance to the fourth rail package of the European Union should hear a little more about the railway staff and their concerns about the developments that are now taking place in the sector. Clearly, these are people who want more than anyone to increase their investment in the railways, who want to develop the railways, who are in contact with their European trade unions working together to strengthen the railways in Europe. So I think you should have a little more respect for the counter-representations that a lot of people have against the EU's fourth railway package. The rapporteur, Jon Gunnes, was to understand that he believes that if we do not join the fourth rail package of the European Union, it is an obstacle to increased rail traffic. That's a strange argument. Speaking of the post for Elvesuen: I had summer work on the railway at the end of the 1980s, on the luggage dispatch at Oslo S. Then there was a train between Oslo and Copenhagen. It's completely possible. It was dropped because it was politically determined. Trains have gone to Gothenburg, trains have gone to Stockholm. Ofot is probably one of the routes in Europe where most goods are carried in volume across a border, without any problems. So it's not a problem to bet more on the rail without having to join the fourth rail package of the EU. Arguments for package, but cross-border traffic is fully possible if there is a political desire to do so. We can drive to Gothenburg, we can drive to Copenhagen – no problem. It's just because this government doesn't want it and doesn't have ambitions for the development of the railway, that we don't. This government has no good history of developing the railway. This government did not initiate the rail reform in order to get a better rail system – and now I am very happy that the Minister for District and Digitalisation has arrived, for now I intend to quote her. At least she was honest when she presented the railway policy of the new bourgeois government in the VG on 4 September 2014. The headlines were: ‘Right will compete with these sections of the train – NOW: Go and drive! To crush the NSB monopoly. The government in meetings with non-resident train companies." And then, Hofstad, Greece, said, "We shall brush out of the tube so much toothpaste that the Ap does not get to put it back." That is the starting point for this government's railway policy. It was never to get a better rail offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3136	There's a lot that's been mentioned in the debate, and I'm going to start with one. What these new foreign companies are winning is not dumping their wages, it is believing in their own railways, increasing their rates and increasing their budget as a result of having more passengers. That's what they're winning. Even the NSB managed to go down half a billion or whatever it was, when they went in and analyzed. It's not because of dumping, they're winning that they think they can get more passengers. Britain is a very good railway country. They're number two in Europe after Austria. There's nothing negative to come from the United Kingdom and drive the railway. The second is that when we now talk about just taking trains to Europe: Yes, we can just take a train, and why can we do that? Well, in Europe there are no socialists standing on the border saying you can't drive in my country, because I'll do that. The whole of the EU is that it should be available on the tracks. You don't need new trains if you're not allowed to drive there because the tracks are not available. If you are going to drive trains between Sweden and Denmark, you need special trains, because the current is different. In some parts of Europe there are different track widths; in other parts of Europe there are different platform heights. We had a round on this in an interpellation in the Stortinget. Europe is now doing what they should have done perhaps a long time ago: they are trying to coordinate what they can coordinate, as soon as practicable. We are going to be there, for our people who are going on vacation, who are going to travel to Europe by rail, must have access to the tracks. It is much easier to drive Ryanair to Spain than to take trains, so there is something about this being a development that makes train travel in Europe, including from Norway, more attractive. And then there's regulation in this system that makes us not giving away the right to guess on our own, because we have as big capacity problems as we have. Then the law says that we can regulate or distribute this to one company. Finally, this is about criticising the Supreme Court: yes, we thought we might not have had to send this to the Supreme Court, because this is politics. Then you come back and say that it is not the Supreme Court that important. But dealing with practice is a well-known case in law interpretations, because the law is not always fully designed. How to practice it is also legally important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3148	It was liberating – if I didn't hear wrong, I think my predecessor Igstad talked about the socialists on the border. It was great to hear from Igstad, who I look at as usually very carefully in his language. But that's a good point, and I still don't really understand what the problem is in this debate. I feel that there are many substantiated arguments, that it is a bit of a strange debate. I want to start with the Inland Goods Package, which I know most people in this room are very busy, and all praise to the opposition that focuses on it. It is important not only for the forest industry in the Inland but also for the fish in Northern Norway, which is going through the Inland and out of the world. Then you're dependent on having a cooperation that works. And the timber from the Inland is unfortunately not to be processed in Norway. Much of it goes out in the world and to Sweden, and then you depend on having a cooperation that works. To give authority: I really don't think this debate is so much about it, and really not about the European Union either. I don't think the debate is so much about self-determination either. I really don't think it's about anything other than ideology, and then we have a classic ideology debate with the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party, which is open to competition to offer the best possible offer to the customer and the consumer, on the one hand, and the classic socialists on the left, with whom the Central Party has unfortunately also allied itself, who want a monopoly – and not just a monopoly, but a state monopoly. That's what's bliss, obviously. It's really, I think, that the left-hand side can't say no to competition, and that's what frustrates the left-hand side. That's what annoys them. There can be no doubt about a monopoly that the rest of Europe has gone away from a long time ago. You cannot prevent it from offering customers a better offer to also save tax money. That's the resistance that we see on the left-hand side now focuses on. But they use other arguments and try to hide behind self-determination and the EU. I think that's a little special. I would like to remind you that thanks to the railway reform, which has not necessarily gone all the way, as the reform with New Roads and road construction has done, we have saved 12 billion. kr in public funds and tax revenue, so it cannot be just negative. I heard that my good colleague Myrli in his first post was not only concerned about competition, but about free competition, which was even worse than competition. It'll be a double liberalisation, so it's fy-fy. And then we're back in that it's really the ideology that's the frustration or the problem of the opposition here. When we talk about competition, we see, for example, that SJ has started driving Oslo-Trondheim. Now the Korona situation has affected it a little negative, unfortunately, but there is no doubt that they are raising that train offer, with the lounge – at least there were plans for lounges both in Trondheim and Oslo. And they're going to raise the supply of food and offer a better drink. At Rørosbanen, they had to make sure that the cell phone could be loaded. It is quite special that you cannot charge a cell phone on a train today. That's what they were supposed to take care of. I really think this is going to be very good. A better offer is provided to customers, a better train offer in Norway, and that is the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3167	I thank you for the debate, and it has been numerous, I would say. For example, most of them: by the Central Party has begun with the legal failure of the legal system, and that is why one would have a view from the Supreme Court. And fortunately, I'm one of those people who thought it was completely wrong to go into the Supreme Court in this case. This is a political matter. It has to be decided in Stortinget. That's what we're doing today. I'm very pleased that this is where it has to be decided, not in any court or any other place but in the Storting. Then I also hear that it is possible to drive trains today between the countries. Yes, it does, two trains go from Oslo to Gothenburg per day, even – although there are exceptions right now on Meråker – two trains per day from Trondheim to Östersund, and to Stockholm there are probably five trains per day. So trains are running, but the potential is so much bigger. And it was much better before, but there came a competitor, and it was hot flying. It fully competed with train connections on longer distances – not only foreign traffic, but also domestic. But that's what we're going to try to turn around and realize that it might be a little bit easier. I don't think it's essential for ERA to approve or not, but it could be a little easier for an actor who wants to drive new train sections, between Oslo and Copenhagen, or maybe to Hamburg and further down in Europe. I have faith in the market, it's supply and demand it's about here. As I have seen the situation around Norway now, many people want to take trains if there had been an offer. But it has to be simple, and that's what would have been a little fun to see if any of the actors would be involved in getting to. Now I hope we get started, and become a member of the fourth railway package. And about the State Railway Authority: The whole committee met with them, and they've been working with ERA for many years. They were so pleased, because they had competence in many of the areas that maybe the State Railway Authority didn't have. They took full pride in their advice and the things they were doing. And that's what the continuation is, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3178	I was very clear in my post that I have great respect for the concern of both employees and trustees. This is always the case when there are changes that can have consequences for the workplace. And you really need to have a great deal of respect for that. But this debate has definitely been a long way off at times, at least it is certain. Now I've listened to some of the posts, and then I can keep on being a little bit there, me too. Because it is clear that when the centre party here talks about directives and the Stortinge which have decided this and that, it would have been fun to ask the Stortinge dispatch office if they could come up with all the EU directives that were adopted in the eight years of red-green government; I think that list had been quite long. But I don't think I'm going to do that to the staff at the dispatch office, because it's a pretty fierce job to manage to find all the directives that the Center Party, the Workers' Party and the SV "Fund" through in this house in buckets and buckets. I have actually meant this seriously – and that's why I agreed to ask that we should have a Supreme Court assessment – but when I heard the representative Nävra from this pulpit, it wasn't really something he was going to take into account or consider at all. He said right – if I don't remember very wrong – that they really just wanted to get that review. It suggests that there are completely different things than actually actually getting to use the Supreme Court. I see that there are several of the representatives who have been up on this pulpit now, who are actually showing it to the full. They really haven't cared so much about it. The progress party has taken it seriously. That is why we sent the case to the Supreme Court, because we were to hear what action this was against Norway. The part we're talking about is train equipment and safety certificates across borders, making it easier for those who are going to run the railway to get approvals. I take the Council of State for the floor; he was very clear that we have full authority over the Norwegian railway system. It's funny when the Center Party says it's important to maintain and create jobs and keep them in Norway. I remember that in 2013 there was a Central Party Council that traveled abroad to pick up labour that could come to Norway and build infrastructure, and that was very clear on that. But here it's clearly completely different. I think that those who follow the debate and are concerned with the railways, and who want a railway that is offensive, that will do something and that will in the future, should actually vote on the Progress Party – because we have a much more ambitious railway policy than the Labour Party has. Today, the Workers' Party has presented its national transport plan, with a total of 13.8 billion. kr more than the government. It's the ping-pong. The advance party shall have more than 40 billion. kr more to the railway. We're going to have 60 billion. kr if you bring the goods package. It's about saying that the railway we're going to lift up and bet on; that's what the Progress Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3191	The President would like to draw the attention of the representative to the fact that in this Chamber we are making decisions, but they are not 'favorable'.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3196	It is incredible what the government parties and the support party are trying to get this debate to be about. The representative Igstad was up here talking about the track width of the trains and the width of the platforms. Is that what the Storting should decide today? No, it's not. The representative Johnsen talked about the possibility of charging the mobile phone to train sections in Norway. He talked about restaurant cars and offers on trains in Norway. Is that what we're taking a stand for today? Is that it, Agent Johnsen? No, that's not it. And to the Council of State, which said that what we are doing today, will mean a lift for the Norwegian railway. How many meters of new Norwegian railway does the decision we're making today imply? Absolutely none. What it's all about to bet on Norwegian railways is to implement plans and make sure to grant money to Norwegian railways – and not run from promises, as the government with Councillor Hareide in charge has recently done. That is what it is all about if we are to get a better train offer, both within Norway and between Norway and other countries. To the point that has come from the Supreme Court: the centre party was committed to getting a opinion from the Supreme Court to see the Supreme Court’s assessment of the political content of what we are about to deal with – not because the Supreme Court is going to decide the question, but because that consideration could give us important knowledge. That order was for the Progress Party to give. When it comes back to the Supreme Court’s assessment, it says that in essential areas, the transfer of authority to the EU is more extensive than the government envisaged. The Progress Party then leaves itself to deal with it only because this is in any case a policy that they want to pursue, and the fact that Norwegian sovereignty over Norwegian railway and Norwegian railway safety is being sacrificed to the advantage that the Progress Party will have an impact on its policy is no longer so dangerous. It is important that we take care of railway safety in Norway, which is among the best in Europe, to ensure that we still have power over Norwegian railways. And there will be a new majority after the elections, well, then the Central Party will ensure that we start the process of withdrawing Norway from the fourth rail package of the EU and ensuring that we take back control of Norwegian railway policy and Norwegian railway safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3209	The government wants Norway to give up sovereignty in another area and resorts to the wording ‘small intervention’, which is referred to as a non-statutory specific rule. It emerges when Europeans want to give sovereignty in violation of the Constitution – an almost panicking argument that this is so small that it does not matter at all. It is compared with driving licences, mobile phones – as it appeared here – whether there should be meat cake or pizza in the restaurant, and that type of description. Sovereignty renunciation of social critical infrastructure is not a curant fillet, as the government now wants to present it as. In the past, the Christian People's Party has stood on the line of the Center Party. In dealing with the Acer case, the Christian People’s Party – according to Hareide – would not help to give away national control and governance. However, in the introduction of the fourth railway package, there is no need for a debate in the Stortinget on the competitive deployment of the railway, because the fourth rail package of the EU says that we should launch the rail. I fully respect the fact that you have a completely different view than I do of how to organise transport in Norway. I have full respect for that. But I hope that we who have a different view also have the same respect when you don't even want to use the possibilities you have to limit time, for example. the outsourcing of competition. It argues whether to put off competition or not. You could do that. But it has to be so that it has to be determined in this room. That is the ideological difference in this debate. And that's absolutely right, that's an ideological difference, and you shouldn't be ashamed because you're occupied with an ideology that you believe in. We don't have much to be proud of about how the railway has spent its money in recent years. It's not long since we, once again, got 12 billion. kr in exceedances. But many of us others are concerned about getting the best railway, getting the best out of every penny, and I actually think that there are socialists both on the border and maybe in Europe who have the same view as us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3220	The representative, Mr André Johnsen, has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3225	It was a pity that the representative Gülsvik could not be with us and drive trains between Berlin and Hamburg. Then I think he had a slightly different view of the advantages and importance of competition. You get a better rail offer. That's what's the point here. But it is clear that the Centre Party and the Advance Party have a slightly different view of whether competition is important or not. It's possible the Center Party doesn't quite see the benefit of it. Persistence states that competition must be determined in this Chamber. That's exactly right, and that's exactly what we're doing right now. It is precisely what we adopt in this case that we open up to competition. It is possible that Gülsvik has not been fully involved in all the details of the case and just pulls the EU card a little bit on autopilot, because if you read the case papers, it says for example.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Further, the fourth railway package requires free access to the national networks as a starting point.’ That's what Myrli meant when he mentioned free competition, and that's what's the whole point: competition leads to getting meatcakes and power – among other things. It's an offer you'll get. When there are several actors in a market, there will be different offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3237	The representative Gegelsvik was concerned about what would give a lift for the Norwegian railway. I pointed to it in my post, and I want to repeat it. What I said is that we want the actors to act in such a way that one will develop the services for the benefit of the travellers and in a way that attracts new customer groups. Only then can we get the promise that we want to give the railway. – That's the words I came up with. Yes, I think what we're doing today is a step in the right direction. But there is no doubt that the economic investment we have had on the Norwegian railway in the last decade has been unlikely to be important. We now have more than three-fold in ten years' time. Only in the last budget will we increase the railway's revenues by over 6 billion. And now we have a promise of thirty-three billion. kr. It's a whole different level than it was ten years ago. I will say that ten years ago we took care of the Norwegian railway. Ten years later, in 2021, we actually develop Norwegian railway. What we are discussing today is also about how we can achieve better cooperation and leadership. There are several people who have challenged me because I don't choose a two-pillar solution. I just want to repeat it: it's about using the same system for the railways that we do in aviation. And then we know that there has been a commitment to the involvement of the State Railway Authority in the cases where ERA will take decisions and that the Railway Authority will exercise control and supervision of the operation. This will safeguard Norwegian interests. It is also central that there should be one body issuing common European certificates and operating permits, because it provides a single procedure. We also know, as I also said, that the railway authorities have the possibility to pull the needle brake. Many of the players also have to comply with ERA, however, if an example is running trains in Sweden. Nor is there any body in the EFTA pillar today that has the necessary technical competence. So I mean this is completely in line with the practice we have. It has been established by the Supreme Court, and it is actually the way we have operated on an EEA agreement – an EEA agreement that is very supportive of the Norwegian people. It gives us access and good cooperation with Europe, but we maintain our independence, and it is also very much in line with the vision of the party I represent.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3250	The representative Sverre Myrli has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3255	It was Bård Hoksrud who asked questions about the Workers' Party's position on the matter. That is quite right, the Labour Party is a hot member of the EEA Agreement – we believe that it is a cooperation that has served Norway very well and that we should continue with. In most areas, we have great advantages of being closely integrated with Europe elsewhere. But that is an argument for how serious this case is, when the EEA Workers' Party chooses to vote against. I am familiar with the second time in history that the Workers' Party decides to go against the EU directive, i.e. in this case, there are five directives and regulations in one – this is the second time. That is because we believe it is so fundamentally contrary to the railway policy we stand for. The Workers' Group has dealt with this and concluded in 2018 that we would vote against the fourth railway package.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3263	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has spoken the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3268	The representative Johnsen says that one in this room can make decisions about competition. Yes, it is absolutely right that the Stortinget can take decisions on rail competition. Some of the point of democracy is that the people not only have the opportunity to throw politicians at elections, but also have the opportunity to change the political course. And, for example, by reaping experience of outsourcing as one has done in other countries, where one has seen negative consequences and wants to have it back to the way it was in the past, has an opportunity to make the political choices through new decisions in the national parliament. To the Council of State, which spoke of the possibility for the Railway Authority to pull an emergency brake: it is precisely what the Supreme Court has pointed out in its view that, in a case where the European Railway Agency and the arbitration panel have taken a decision, it would be considered unfair if a decision to maintain safety measures at national level were to be maintained by one of the Norwegian authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3275	The representative, Bård Hoksrud, has also spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3280	I just have to go back a little bit: so it was a majority in the Grand Duchy that asked the Supreme Court that question. When I listen to the debate here now, it's a little strange that you're really a little unsure about that question, and that you got the answer you got. I've always thought that we've actually wanted a statement from the Supreme Court, because I've been very concerned about the renunciation of sovereignty, and how much it actually is. Then I hear from Mr Myrli that the Workers' Party concluded already in 2018. Then I'm really wondering why you should have it to the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3287	The representative Arne Nävra has also spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3292	Two things: first, of course, it was honestly meant, even from SV's side, to ask the Supreme Court for a consideration. It was just supposed to be missing – of course it was. Then it came very interesting from the Supreme Court. We've gone through it, and as several speakers have pointed out, it was actually so in several areas that they thought it was transfer of authority, and then it was emphasising the previous practice of Storting that weighed the most heavily. That's how I concluded about it. I wanted to say that it is a word that is completely absent when we are discussing both the reform of the railways and the transfer to the EU of a provision on Norwegian railway management, and that is the word ‘employees’. It's completely gone. The right-hand side never mentions those who work on the railway, it's never been mentioned from a FrP, I think – and that pay, employment, pensions, etc. are put under pressure: never. There'll be more meatcakes and stuff like that – in the name of heaven! I just want to give an explanation of vote. We are going to vote in favour of resolving the Red motion for a referendum on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3301	I think that the representative Hoksrud really asked the Labour Party a good question, whether they had actually made up their mind, and Sverre Myrli now says that they decided in 2018. That's when you can wonder why you should drag this case into the Supreme Court. In the case of Görlsvik and competitive outsourcing: in most county municipalities in the country today, the Centre Party is in power positions together with the Workers' Party and SV. Public transport, for example, is the responsibility of public transport. bus. Everyone is on a tender, they are on a tender and they are competitive between the companies. If you're against it, you should have a completely different system, exclusive models everywhere instead of today's system. Is there any difference between rail and bus operations? Governments have mentioned it several times in the case of aeroplanes. Even the FOT routes, i.e. those that the State buys and partially subsidises, are under tender. The system has to be that way if we are to get a real competition and a real offer to our passengers in the cheapest and best possible way. The tender criteria are determined by the policy-makers. Ultimately, it must be the competition which requires the companies to carry out the task. Arne Nävra mentions that there was quite a lot of feedback after the Supreme Court judgment. These lawyers who SV really listened very much to before they sent it to the Supreme Court, were in complete agreement. It was obvious, they say, now the Supreme Court has said its own. The size is sovereign in relation to it, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3310	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 25 and 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3327	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who may sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3334	Thank you to the Committee for a good cooperation on Announcement. St. 28, Our Common Digital Base Wall, and three representative proposals that will be considered at the same time. It is a joint committee that proposes to notify. Paragraph 28 is added to the Protocol, and there is a joint committee which is behind two of the proposals, dealing with mobile and broadband coverage along national roads. In total, there are nine suggestions in the configuration, and I expect the parties to do their best for their proposals. When the so-called new normal came to us in Norway on 12 March 2020, with home offices, at home and at least physical contact, we in Norway, as one of the world's most digitised countries, were well-forbidden to deal with this situation, because we have a digitally competent population, good digital common solutions and effective public digital services. High investment in the expansion and operation of broadband, mobile networks and data centres over many years has been a central concern that the digital core wall has coped with the stress test during the pandemic. Norwegian echo networks and data centres are built to tolerate large traffic, they are well operated, and all use of frequencies is regulated by the authorities. Broadband provision in Norway is very good, both on a European and international scale. Almost all households have basic broadband, and the proportion of households with high-speed broadband is increasing from year to year and was 89pst at the end of the first half of 2020. However, supply is better in densely populated areas than in spread-built areas. This is, of course, due to the fact that development costs have to be shared among far fewer customers in spread-built strips, with fewer users. Ninety-six pst. of households in built-in districts had high-speed broadband of 100 Mbit/s per first half of 2020, with 56 pst. of households in spread built this deleted at the same time. Although the gap has been reduced in recent years, the difference is too large and there is a broad consensus that the government support for broadband expansion should be passed on. Digitalisation is increasingly influencing social development and rapid development. All citizens, businesses, public enterprises and critical societal functions expect access to electronic communications networks and services to enable them to participate in the digital society and to benefit from the opportunities for simplification, efficiency, innovation, value creation and entertainment. Network and service dependency is increasing in all sectors of society. The Internet has become the most widely used ecosystem in Norwegian society and is now almost indispensable in all sectors of society. In addition to providing benefits in a range of areas by stimulating business development and innovation, the Internet is important for communication, freedom of expression and democracy. In Report. St. 28 is the government's goal at 100 pst. of the households and enterprises in Norway shall have 100 Mbit/s download speed and at least 10 Mbit/s upload speed by the end of 2025. This objective is consistent with the proposal No. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party, and the Government Party basically believes that there is no need for the proposal, since the target is laid down in the big news. Nevertheless, the Government Party will vote in favour of the proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Progress Party, so there's no doubt about what government party I'm talking about. The market-based policy, where commercial operators mainly provide for the development and financing of mobile and broadband services, has been a regular doctor for many years and has to say that they are very successful. Resilient competition is a fundamental element in ensuring reasonable prices and a lack of new and innovative services. In parts of the Norwegian eco-market, there is still a need for pre-regulation under the eco-law to facilitate such competition. There is a concern that failure to compete and use of binding time, connection hall and other locking mechanisms will affect consumers, but there are several concrete measures in the Report. Article 28 to facilitate better competition. A third mobile network will strengthen competition on the mobile market and, as the mobile network could be used to deliver home broadband through fixed, wireless broadband on 5G networks, it will increasingly compete with, for example: fibrenet. The government wrote in the message that it would facilitate the strengthening of competition in both mobile and broadband markets and that it would like to create one or more broadband user portals. In its next market review, the national communication authority will assess the need for regulation of broadband providers other than Telenor, for example. regional fibre operators.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3357	Report. Paragraph 28 for 2020-2021 has the title of Our Common Digital Basewall. When you choose to call it a base wall, it's strange that it's almost entirely left to market forces to figure out where to stand, what the base wall should look like, and who should use it. To put it simply, market forces determine where to place fibres or whether to place fibres at all – or whether to replace the copper network with mobile or fixed solutions. In the last few years, the government has given too little money to ensure that all citizens are allowed to participate in this foundation wall. In addition, the ground wall is too much adapted to cities and urban struts, and almost half of those living in more scattered struts lack access to a network of satisfactory capacity. Only 56 pst. by those living in scattered areas, had satisfactory network access in the first half of 2020. During this period, the Labour Party has granted much more money than the government – it has been on almost twice as much as the government. There needs to be much more than what the government is doing now, in order to achieve a satisfactory network access for the whole people. On top of all of this, we have a provider of telephony that doesn't deliver what they're going to deliver. In this setting, we also deal with a representative proposal from the Workers' Party at the same time. In this we propose once again that households that are not yet connected to fibre networks or mobile networks should not lose their connection via the copper network until they have a good alternative – an alternative that allows them to both talk on the phone and surf the Internet from the living room. That is to say, an alternative that meets today's and future network access requirements. We still hear from the government and the government parties that this is current practice, so we don't have to propose this. But if it had been current practice, we wouldn't have had to propose this in Stortinget. We still get telephones, we still get e-mails and calls online, from people who are connected by the copper network, and who stay without network access for weeks. For example, I can. mentioned Robert Murphree. He and his family live in the Skiptvet in former Eastfold, and when Telenor cut the copper grid for his home, they lost phone and network access for over a month – and it is in the middle of a pandemic with both home office and home school. I don't think I, the Council of State or the President would have liked that much. Murphree strove to get the line up again, but neither Telenor, who has an obligation to deliver telephony, nor Nomkom, who is to ensure that this obligation is fulfilled, could help. Not until we contacted the Council of State via a written question and actually made direct contact with Telenor, this was sorted out. Now Murphree is grateful for the help he has received, and he should have got it right away. Then there's always an explanation of why such things happen. But it happens a little too often, regardless of the explanation, and that's why we have this proposal on telephony and the copper network. We don't know how else to get the Council of States to understand the seriousness of this. Initially, we agree with much of what is said in this big message. But in short, I can say on behalf of the Workers' Party that we are not impressed by the government's policy in this area, and therefore I am addressing the proposals that we are part of in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3376	The representative Øystein Langholm Hansen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3381	Electronic communications characterize everyday life for all of us. The digital society contributes to simplification, efficiency, innovation and innovation. The dependence of the Internet is increasing in all areas of society, and then it is important to have good coverage across the country. After the coronary apathy over the country, the new normal home office, home school and little physical contact became even more aware of the importance of good and full mobile and broadband coverage. In order to ensure greater mobility and job creation in rural areas, a good strategy for access to mobile coverage and the high-speed Internet throughout the country must be put in place. There is a wide variation in the handling of fees and local costs by individual municipalities in the development process and it has a direct impact on the commercial assessments of development projects by stakeholders. The Progress Party considers that such costs need to be reduced and the grants increased in order to ensure faster deployment where there is no commercial basis for it. I am pleased that the Progress Party today receives a majority for a number of the proposals we have made on this matter. I would like to thank all the parties in this procedure for their good cooperation. The willingness to compromise has been great. We now have a majority in order for the whole country to have access to the high-speed Internet, and that by 2025 it must happen that all households who do not currently have the basic Internet must be given a rapid priority, that the grant schemes where there is no commercial basis for development must be increased, and last but not least that the Progress Party also receives support for the proposals on the roadside. It's high time to get hold of it. I think several of us in this room have experienced that the cell phone falls out when they are driving a car. It is very important in terms of safety and preparedness that you have mobile coverage in the car, especially in case of accidents, when you need roadside assistance and it is serious. Also considering the zero vision, for which we all work in traffic, it's important to have access to the mobile phone in order to call for help. Keep in mind, too, that many people have the way as a place of work, that's their job. Then it is extra precarious that the cell phone falls out and you do not have mobile coverage. The Progress Party proposes to impose on builders, both Statens vägvesen and Nye Veier, a responsibility to deliver new roads with full mobile coverage. For existing roads, a good coverage map shall be created defining all points and their remedial costs. The Government Parties have agreed with us in the Progress Party that consideration and decision will be made in relation to the revised national budget for 2022. Otherwise, I just want to thank you again for a good cooperation. This gives you a little bit more of a taste, we should do this more often -- get together in really good things where we can have a common front to solve things for most people out there in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3400	The government is joining Message. St. 28 for 2020-2021 set new targets for the electronic communications sector. The Communication presents the main goals and priorities of the government – digital access for all, digital mobile value creation, secure and robust networks and digital throughout life. It was a short version. But only by the objectives is this a message that is very important for the development of the society we live in now, and the society we're going to see for ourselves in the future. This means you have to have visions. You have to analyze how you're going to act in this society in the future. You have to think about evolution. You have to think about community building. And you have to think that you have to build a foundation. It's been a huge development in recent years, which has really escalated through the pandemic we've been experiencing now. The digital core wall will affect the potential for achieving the world goals of desired development, and it is crucial for a future decentralised social structure in Norway. Broadband, mobile and Internet access is a fundamental social resource. It's a basic social resource that people expect to have access to, wherever they live. Clearly, it is challenging in a country like Norway to ensure that this approach is as good in the West as it is here in Karl Johan. At the same time, it must be that ambition that you must never let go of. That's the ambition you always have to look for. That is the ultimate, what is really required for this country to be used. It's quick to say that this is what we're spending so much resources on -- maybe there's only ten people, we need to use the resources in more central areas. These are arguments you can use in almost any context. That's why this is a strategy that we're presenting here, demanding, but it has to be something you're reaching for. This approach is complemented by proposals for representatives with clear demands for a good and stable mobile network for the entire population of the country, as well as mobile networks along main trajectories both at sea and on land. There are also representatives who say something about accessing the high-speed Internet. There are suggestions that say no one should lose the fixed phone until they have mobile coverage or other telephone solutions with at least as good coverage as the fixed phone. It should have been a matter of course, you ask me. The centre party believes that all residents and businesses should have access to a forward-looking, secure digital base wall. It is important to ensure reasonable prices and access to the diversity of services. In parts of the Norwegian eco-market, there is still a need for ex ante regulation under the eco-nomy law to facilitate such information. The lack of competition and the use of lead-time, switching and other locking mechanisms that affect consumers may hinder freedom of choice and restrict access to free information. At the same time, this is the challenge, for in many places it is not just to choose and to throw away among those who are going to find the solutions. Nevertheless, we have to be aware of the problem, and we have to try to solve it in the best possible way. The high-speed Internet is essential in order to provide good services to citizens and businesses, to use resources efficiently and to facilitate more activity throughout Norway. The centre party believes that the 100 Mbit/s broadband speed to all is a minimum that is necessary to reach the next few years. The aim is to make Norway a gigabit society, and any further expansion of broadband must help to facilitate it. I refer to the proposal from the Central Party and the proposal from the Central Party and the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3421	The representative Bengt Fasterale has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3426	It is good to see that there is largely agreement in the hall on the importance of full development of the network and telephone. But then maybe there's a little difference in the emphasis on how good market forces have been, and how much the public has to go to; how much we have to open the wallet to get full coverage. I think that the issues we are dealing with now have at least three important aspects. One is business development and district policy; it is very closely linked. Point two is safety and safety in the event of accidents, sickness, fire, etc. It is then absolutely essential that it is Internet and telephone connection. The third is the general practice of discrimination; there should be no discrimination in this country. A more serious aspect of it is, of course, that it has democratic aspects. It is essential that everyone has access, wherever they live. That must be our goal. I can also refer to the representative Øystein Langholm Hansen, who mentioned some examples of the consequences if the copper network is broken. We have some of those examples. In its assessment of the proposal on the guarantee of other solutions and the closure of the copper network, the Council of State writes that ‘there is no need to adopt the proposal for a representative’. The Council of State has a formal justification that Telenor has universal service on the telephone. After all, it is only to gossip to the National Communications Authority if they are ‘not offered a compensation solution against the assumption for a fixed telephone service over the copper network that Telenor wishes to terminate’. So it turns out there's a lot of holes in this warning system. It will have to knock a little bit on the door of Telenor and the communication authority. In the area of Hiksdal to Fikse in the municipality of Vindafjord, 23 villagers have received notice of termination of the landline telephone, while there is no alternative at all to trust. In fact, not everyone has been warned about the closure of the copper network, but they know they will. There is great fear in the countryside that they will not be connected. They have a mobile phone connection that is such that they have to look around and find a corner in the house, possibly up on a porch or something like that, to be able to get a connection. That's the option so far. It was then possible to hold a meeting with Telenor Communication and with the rapporteur. They agreed on a spice layer to improve coverage in four–five areas of Windfjord. But as far as I know, they're still waiting. I don't know why. What about universal service? It's interesting to know, and it also asks the local people about it. There have been major changes in job habits during the pandemic. People work more at home, it's definitely safe, and probably this is going to be permanent changes. This means, of course, that you need to have an online connection that is to be trusted – in order to work at home. This can be good for the environment, and it can also be good for bud shootings and entrepreneurs in the districts. But fast the Internet and at least one phone, so they have to have that. So you can ask yourself the question: shouldn't it be as central a requirement as 220 volts of electricity and installed water for each household and business building? Therefore, you have to see whether this should have been simply a right that the Nordics should have had. That is also why we are behind the proposal which reads: ‘The government asks the Government to exercise a right to high-speed internet for all households in Norway.’ Right-wing provisions may be the way to go. And you can also think about the situation as it has evolved: so we've started playing with 5G, we're getting 5G, we're getting 5G, and it's exciting. It's very exciting because it's important for technological development as well. But when we see at the same time that there are many areas that don't even have 4G, you can start wondering if there might have been a claim from the telecommunications companies that they arranged 4G before they thought about 5G.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3446	I really hope the representative Arne Nävra does not get what he wants now that we should slow down progress. That's what he was standing here saying that you had to wait with 5G until 4G was fully developed. It reminds me a little when we were in the transition to the automatic phone in the 1960s and 1970s. You probably started back in the 1950s. It takes some time to introduce new technology. Electricity, in the case of telephony, and in the case of many of these infrastructures. However, I fully agree with Mr Nävra's objective. It is that everyone needs to receive an offer of good mobile coverage and good internet coverage. It's really something that benefits the people and promotes the good life, and not least it increases the value of business and business. That's what's driving them forward, and that's why the government has suggested that more companies compete. It's the driver who actually serves the customer the best. All experience indicates that. Today, right now, unfortunately, on the mobile market there are two companies that are very large, and then one is small. We're going to hope that the little thing can come up and start to match the two big ones, because maybe they're a little bit too similar in structure and in level of ambition to decide how the evolution is going to be. The left has been very concerned about the price of data services. We've talked a lot about that, and we just got a report that in Norway we pay a lot in comparison to comparable countries. That's very regrettable. I realize it's hard. It is capacity that the challenges in Norway are greater than in many other countries, as well as the ability to pay. But it doesn't have to limit the data usage, because that's what it's done. We are not very good at using data in Norway in relation to many other countries. It's a danger signal, I think, and I think the main challenge here is getting a lower price, so you can use even more of data access. Essentially, I think the ambitions now are very high. When you're at 100 pst. Within a few years, it's high -- it can't be that much better when you have ambitions about it. Then, of course, there's still an opportunity to get even better – over to gigabits, etc. – but you get a lot done with 100 Mbits/s at broadband speed. I'll get on the 4G cabin, to say it like that, and I'll even be able to be in dialogue with the committee. I've been to a cabin and I've had a committee meeting, and it's gone to 4G. You're asked what purpose you're going to have. What is clearly regrettable is these examples that the Workers' Party's representative comes with, and that Arne Nävra also mentions, that there are individuals who get hurt because the suppliers are not good enough to follow them up on the promises that the companies have made. They have been clearly informed by the political environment and by the minister not to take down the copper band until they have an alternative. I just hope we succeed in this area. We have succeeded, I think, but I hope we continue with the good trend we are in in this area now, and that we succeed even better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3462	I want to start by thanking the Committee for a lot of good comments. There is a good attitude The Stortinge today will adopt, and I also think there have been many good speeches from this pulpit in this matter. Although we have come a long way in Norway and we are ready to have one of the best networks in Europe – perhaps the best – we should be ambitious. We need to move on, and then it is important that we share that ambition politically. We should be proud that we have a very solid digital base wall – both in terms of speed, and in terms of security and preparedness. The pandemic has made it clear how important this infrastructure is for the whole of Norwegian society and for each of us as individuals. It has been necessary to keep society going with home school, home offices and online commerce, and it has been important for our social contacts. The pandemic has in many ways accelerated digitisation and forced us to move on to future-oriented solutions. That means that it pushes us politicians extra much, because the inhabitants and society are going to make even higher demands on us, on what we deliver, and on how we facilitate the further development of the digital base wall. That base wall also needs to be built up under the green shift that we're going to go through. It will contribute to the creation of new jobs and the development of new industries, innovative solutions in aquaculture and agriculture, and a welfare technology that allows people to live longer at home. That's a digital base wall assumption for. Therefore, this infrastructure is essential for the transformation of our business. The mobile networks cover almost all the households and over 90 pst. of the land area. Nine out of ten households offer high-speed broadband. Together with Denmark, Norway is ranked at the top of Europe on mobile and broadband access. I'm very happy about that. The market-based policy, in which the State facilitates large investments and competition, while providing targeted grants for development and increased security where the market does not solve the task itself, has proved to be effective. The government is now adding a power cap to secure broadband at 100 megabits per second to all households and all businesses by the end of 2025. We're going to facilitate further market-based expansion, we're going to continue to grant broadband in the districts, and in the autumn's frequency auction, we're going to give a district package of over half a billion dollars. Now it's expansion in scattered strips that's priority number one in high-speed development. Although the mobile and broadband offer is good, we also see signs that freedom of choice is too weak and that competition varies in many places. That's not good enough. We pay more for mobile services than our neighboring countries. It's not good enough either. All of this is linked to the fact that our mobile market is characterised by two major players. Therefore, as Minister and Government, I do everything we can to facilitate that we have three mobile networks that can compete in both business and private markets. We see it as absolutely essential that we, as customers and companies, get a good enough offer. But we have to do that by aligning the regulation and frequency auctions. New technology provides opportunities to change the way we solve different societal problems, and that's why I'm very happy that we're now rolling out 5G across the country. In addition to having many download Netflix a little faster – after all, it’s not the most important thing – industry and business around the whole of District Norway will be able to use data and a world-leading speed to create new jobs and new industries. It's the most important thing. The digital core wall also carries more and more societal values. Both extreme weather, human failure and cyberattacks can lead to serious security breaches and network failures. The government will therefore also impose regulatory and supervisory requirements on sound safety. If we are to achieve the objectives of the ecosystem policy, we should not change a recipe that we now see working well, and that makes us a nation with digital users and with good networks that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3483	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3488	The Workers' Party has proposed that no-one should lose the fixed telephone until they have mobile coverage or other telephone solutions with at least as good coverage as the fixed telephone. The reason is that we're getting a lot of calls from people who are now losing their landline and being disconnected by the copper network. Of course, this is a proper development, but there are too many who still do not have enough alternative solutions. In a written question to the Minister for Digitalisation, I have addressed the situation of some residents in Bærumsmarka who lose their copper network in June despite the fact that they do not have a satisfactory telephone and internet connection. I have received a good response from the Council of State. I would like to commend the fact that these questions are taken seriously, and that the Council of State is collecting information from Telenor. But my question is, why should it be necessary to make contact with big business representatives or journalists or others before Telenor makes sure these matters are settled?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3495	The representative, Myrli, is asking a good question. It shall not be necessary to contact Stortinget or a wholesale representative, precisely because Nomkom is the one to deal with complaints from final customers. That's the last way out if you don't get through. Telenor has a contractual obligation to provide, but it lapses if the corresponding service is offered by one or more end-users. I feel that the companies, not least Telenor, are very concerned about having a close dialogue with the end-users, so in my opinion it should be very unnecessary. I am pleased that the matter gets attention, and that it is taken up by big business representatives, as the representative Myrli.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3500	I thank you for the answer, but it's too many single-pisods that add up to make this not work, and that's not good enough. There are too many people who now lose their fixed phone without having a good enough alternative. Back to the situation of the inhabitants of Bærumsmarka: There, the Council of State replied to the question from the undersigned that Telenor had adequately cared for the subscribers concerned. But now I have received feedback from one of the residents, a resident who has so-called mobile broadband, who says that Telenor had promised to send a technician, but Telenor has not. First they get – perhaps because the matter was taken up in Stortinget – informed from Telenor that they should fix it, send a technician, but then the subscriber gets an SMS from Telenor that the line is ok. Yes, the line is OK sometimes. The problem is that it is very unstable, it is not ok all the time, but it must be if you are to work with a home office and be able to have telephone contact and Internet contact with the outside world. Why doesn't Telenor sort these things out?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3507	I experience in my dialogue with Telenor that they are terribly concerned about this, and when I ask questions, they can almost answer which family, household and address is being discussed. But yet, if someone experiences it like that, it's not good enough. Telenor has – in the agreement that Telenor has between itself as a company and the state – a universal obligation on public telephone services and digital electronic communications networks where it is permanent all-year residence. And because this is not good enough, I will shortly be sending out to the hearing a proposal for a targeted system to ensure a basic offer to all. It will be a proposal that will largely focus on the fact that people who do not have an offer today can contact the authorities in order to seek the financial support they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3514	I'm probably over the average interested in this with security and preparedness, and a lot of companies and public businesses have communication solutions with multiple locations. These customers often purchase an advanced solution, a so-called VPN solution – a closed, secure network – a data communication service from a service provider. It's probably almost 50 pst. of these locations having a fixed access via copper. This means that it is well up to 140,000 such locations that communicate via copper lines in Norway. What's special here is that these are dependent on 100 pst. uptime, and if the copper network is phased out prematurely, many of these lose an important backup solution and thus have less chance of this uptime. This may in turn lead to the suspension of important digitisation measures. Is the State Council confident that everyone who loses the copper network will have an adequate alternative, so that phasing out does not prevent digitisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3523	First, I want to boast to the representative for a very good post. I think I could agree with all of the representatives who explained and stressed their comments from the pulpit. I am also very pleased that security and preparedness issues are being addressed, because it is absolutely crucial in a digital society, as we have become, that security and preparedness in our networks and a robust ecosystem lie there. In the case of copper remediation, I would actually say that it has gone better than I might have feared and was worried about at some point. Today, there are well over 1500 addresses that do not yet have an alternative telephone service infrastructure, and there, Telenor now says that where an alternative telephone service infrastructure is missing, it should be in place by the end of 2022 and it should be satisfactory. So the answer to the question from the representative is that I am sure that it will come into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3530	Copper is also too many today the only redundant option for mobile phones. It's not the capacity that's most important, it's security. If this disappears, many businesses will lose their preparedness. No one has investigated the consequences of shutting down a national network that delivers e.g. to health networks, emergency networks and many other societally critical activities. When the fibre axle is cut and the mobile operators stand more or less on the same mast, everything gets dead. A new emergency network is planned in 2026. From the planned phase-out of the copper network in 2022 until a new emergency network is ready in 2026, it is not clear what happens to the emergency network. Does the Council of State think this is satisfactory?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3539	I'm very concerned that we need to have a seamless transition to the technology shift that we're now in the process of reaching, in a good way. As the representative is well aware, there is a very close dialogue between my department and Telenor on copper remediation and the provision of good replacement products, and not least the possibility of a fibre or wireless broadband connection as an alternative. It is also important for me that customers who are concerned that this will not be put in place quickly enough, contact Nkom if they are not offered the replacement solutions they should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3546	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3554	Digital all-man rights are very important for people and businesses in Norway. But when we talk about this today, I sometimes wonder if we're living in a kind of parallel reality. The representative Gunnes can handle 4G on the cabin side. On my cabin, which is 6 km from the E6 in Saltdal and 1.5 km from the county road, it is not the Internet. There's no cover. There are white spots, and if you apply to everyone – both Telenor, Ice and Telia – they have no plans for anything but a white map there. These aren't plans for coverage. Last year, the copper wire collapsed on Hongset. There are several farms and farms and many families with children in school. I was there and did not have cover on the phone and not the Internet. I started to see if I could switch to Telia or Ice, if it was then possible to get coverage. But no, it wasn't. There was a white map and no plans for anything but a white map. Of course, the Internet of Things and 5G are forward-looking, and I'm looking forward to it being in place, but when you sit in the middle of a white map, it's very urgent to get to the expansion we so badly need. I actually took the floor because I wanted to make a explanations of vote from the Central Party. Recommendations I to V of the Committee, promoted by the members of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the SV, wish to vote in a subsidiary way for the Centre Party. The reason why we do not agree with those proposals is that we believe that our own proposals go further and are better. For example, proposal No. 6, from the Centre Party: ‘The government is asking the whole country’s population to have access to high-speed broadband, at least 100 Mbit/s symmetrical broadband capacity, by 2025.’ And proposal No. 4: ‘The Government requests proposals to introduce public universal service obligations for high-speed broadband, a minimum of 100 Mbit/s in those areas where there is no basis for commercial expansion.’ If they are not adopted, we shall vote subsidiaryly for the I-V vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-31.ana.ud105e3575	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 27. The map of the day is then finished. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? The meeting has been cancelled.
