ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e95	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative Bears Moxnes, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Une Bastholm on welfare leave for the period from 16 to 18 February from the Central Party Group on the Welfare Permit of the Representative for the Liv Signe Navarsete from 16 to 19 February On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative Per Espen Stoknes is called to meet under the leave of the representative Une Bastholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e132	Per Espen Stoknes is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e139	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Council this week, and considers it to be adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e152	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e157	On behalf of the representatives of Jan Bøhler, Kjersti Toppe, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum and myself, I would like to put forward a representative proposal that addicts should not be prosecuted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e162	The representative, Roy Steffensen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e168	On behalf of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Solvency Horne, Terje Halleland and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to join in the shooting of the project E39 Hove-Osli. In the case of an incurrency, the heading reads ‘Oslo’. We'll have to deal with that in connection with the NTP. This time we're going to have to be careful with Osli.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e173	The representative, Mr Langholm Hansen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e178	On behalf of the representatives of Kirsti Leirtrø, Torstein Tvedt Solberg and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to facilitate the advance of the E39 Hove-Osli.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e183	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e203	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e220	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e227	I would like to thank the rapporteurs and the Committee for their good and constructive work. Thanks also go to the administration that has produced the documents and released us safely through all the deadlines, and to the Trade Union and the Nurses' Association, who have made their important contributions. The representative's proposal is to correct errors in the legislation that result in misappropriation of a pension. The size is requested to create, as soon as possible, a regulation ensuring that workers from professional groups with special age limits are not allowed to coordinate large amounts from the special age limit to 67 years. The various parties to the Committee have different approaches to the matter, and I expect that they themselves will clarify their views today. The committee's management has resulted in a minority and a multiple. The minority, including the Progress Party, have individually made four different proposals, and the plurality, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, suggests that the proposal for a representative is not accepted. So I want to justify my view of the Christian People's Party: what we're learning from all the pension matters we've had this last year is that the different pensions have to be seen not in pieces and divided, but in a whole. Public pension schemes are difficult to understand because they are complex, with different calculation bases, different transitional arrangements for different age groups and difficult coordination rules. The Christian People's Party will have a fair and viable public pension, and people will have a good and adequate pension. Those who become pensioners have paid a pension with the employer for a whole working life. This is done in loyalty to the pension scheme we have. We must not forget that all these pension funds have been part of the vibrant economy in Norway, which has helped us to live in one of the world's best countries. Therefore, it is to ensure that the loyalty of pension schemes is still strong, and that the scheme is understood and trusted. The retirement list does not need to be considered as a cost item, which "preferably not" should live as long as they are going to live after the forecasts. No, this post-war generation that is now becoming a pensioner – women like men – has as former pensioners stood on, built the country, taking education, born children and proud that on the day they are a pensioner, they are thanked with dignity and a well-appointed pension. For this reason, the Christian People's Party, as we have done in all the other pension matters we have dealt with this last year, says that we have to wait for the report from the pension selection coming on 1 March next year, precisely because it is going to clarify these holistic and prudent questions in order to secure the pension list in the future. With this foundation, the Christian People's Party supports the plural proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e246	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a good work on the matter. Thanks also to the proposers for raising the question. It is about the coordination of disability benefits from social security with the gross old-age pension from public service pensions for employees with a special age limit. The situation arises because disability benefit is replaced by old-age pension only at the age of 67, while disability pension, which is a net supplement to social security, is replaced by a gross age pension subject to co-ordination a few years before that, at the time of the special age limit relating to the individual's position. However, transitional arrangements for the period up to 2025 were made for the implementation of the 2015 UN reform. The proposal from the SV to look at the coordination rules for workers with special age limits should be seriously assessed, not adopted at the level of the table. The Workers’ Party therefore proposes that the Pensions Committee be given its mandate to assess this, in any event they should look at the coordination rules in their review of the pension reform. What is more important, however, is to address the issue of future special age limits in cooperation with employee organisations. This question is far overtime, the negotiations have collapsed several times. The Labour Party therefore proposes that the government resume negotiations with the trade union movement. The government has now chosen to submit proposals for changes to the provisions on special age limits at consultation without having a negotiated result at the bottom. The deadline expired in September 2020, so I guess the department is already following that consultation. The Labour Party believes that it is right and reasonable that negotiations should be resumed, and suggests this, while the Progress Party, on its part, wants to remove the special age limits with a pen stroke here and now. Of course, the Labour Party will vote against this, and it is reassuring that it seems to be the case for the government parties too – that they do not support the proposals of the Progress Party. But the Labour Party is concerned that we will not get the government parties to resume negotiations with the trade union movement. In the view of the Labour Party, it is not in line with the Norwegian model that the employer is running a one-sided race in the process of removing the employee’s acquired rights. I take up the proposals that the Labour Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e261	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e266	Retirement is complicated, and although we all agree that we need simpler and more comprehensible rules, it doesn't always get like that. This is particularly true when making changes, usually updates and improvements that are more consistent with the society we live in than when the schemes came. As a rule, transitional arrangements designed to prevent unreasonably high yields are not made easier, or changes are so rapid that they cannot be converted. The disability pension of people's rights was converted into a new disability benefit from 1 January 2015. At the same time, disability benefits in public service pensions were converted from a gross benefit to a net impact on the disability of the public interest and thus not subject to coordination between social security and occupational pension. Execution and government staff with a special age limit for a period starting from the special age limit for the post will have a gross old-age pension from the occupational pension which is coordinated with the disability benefit of the people's pension. The coordination rules are adapted to the changing nature of the provision of public benefit and, in many cases, the new coordination rules provide for a higher degree of coordination deduction than the previous rules. Transitional arrangements are in place for persons with a special age limit in the public sector who received a disability pension before 2015 and who reach the age limit for the post before 2025. I understand that this can be complicated. The draft law states that the proposed coordination rules apply to new cases and that specific rules on ongoing benefits will be laid down in the regulation. There should be consistency between persons who have not been disabled before the special age limit occurred and persons who have been disabled during the period. The new rules apply at a special age limit approximately the same level of post-tax benefit as non-execution in the period from the special age limit up to 67 years. Both the pension reform and the early reform have had an economic impact on individuals. Changes in vesting rules, coordination rules, tax rules and the introduction of age pension adjustments have led to changes for all pensioners. It was intentional changes that made it easier to combine work and social security with the unprepared reform, while the pension reform has made it more profitable to work now. These changes have been widely endorsed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e279	I would like to thank both the rapporteur and the committee. The introduction of disability benefits was dealt with carefully during the previous ageing period and was subject to a change in law that resulted in the disability pension scheme being converted into an old-age pension, from the special age limit, while the disability benefit may be valid up to 67 years. Proposalers believe that workers with a special age limit who become disabled are at risk of losing large sums. The party of progress does not believe this to be the case. The new rules apply at a special age limit approximately the same level of post-tax benefits as non-execution, from the special age limit up to 67 years. With regard to the special age limit, it must be remembered that the problem we are now discussing, of fines on legislation and systems, would not have existed if the special age limit had been abolished at all. The party of progress will not force people out of work, either at special age or by age in general, precisely because there are many who can make a positive contribution to working life regardless of their age. The work on the special age limit is going on at snail speed, and we want to move on. That is why we are proposing this. With that, I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e290	The representative Gisle Meininger Saudland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e295	The case concerns the coordination of social security and public service pensions for people with special age limits. It's a very demanding theme. Therefore, it is not so strange that there are uncertainties in the matter. The transitional arrangements apply to public sector workers who reach the special age limit for the post before 2025. One of the reasons for the proposal is this: this is such an incomprehensible rule that there is reason to doubt whether the consequences are intended. At the same time, it was in the Inner East. 289 L for 2013-2014 by a unanimous committee, said the following: ‘Some hearing bodies have pointed out that, in many cases, the changes in the rules, combined with the subsequent taxation of employees, lead to a reduction in net benefits paid, compared with current rules. The Committee points out that this will only apply to new cases and support the Government’s proposals.’.» The trade union and the nurses' association have asked for a reassessment of the case. We're going to say that it's important to clarify the question. Since it is somewhat unclear whether the mandate given by the government to the selection to look at pension-related issues in the future, the Central Party, together with the Workers' Party, is behind the proposal that the Storting should ask the government to provide the pension committee with a necessary mandate, so that the issue can be thoroughly reviewed in that setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e305	These cases concern several important professions in the public sector, including: auxiliary caregivers, nurses, reindeers, policemen, ambulance workers and fire constables, with special age limits. If you are unemployed in a profession with a special age limit, you are at risk of losing large amounts in the period from one should have retired because of the special age limit and up to 67 years. This rule stands out both as inappropriate and as a little deliberate consequence of the legislation. The proportion of people with a special age limit of 65 years is high, and most work in the health and care sector. Like the Trade Union and Norwegian Nursing Association, I think it's untimely and random that their service pension is reduced by thousands of dollars from 65 to 67 years. Until the public is added with an ordinary age limit, benefits may be provided in the years up to 67 years of age above those with a special age limit of 60, 63 or 65. This outcome is not reasonable. The basis for the special age limits is the burden on the job, the loads on the workers and, in many ways, the pressures that are so heavy that they cause the workers to lose their jobs before the age limit. The comments from the majority indicate that the government has appointed a pension selection to evaluate the pension reform as a whole. It is wrong to refer to the pension selection in this case. The selection shall neither evaluate the disability pension nor the public service pension, which is what this matter is all about. With that I take up SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e316	The representative of Solfrid Lerbreck has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e322	The regulatory framework for the coordination of public service pensions is very complex. I know that, among others. because even the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, perhaps those who can do this best, alongside some environments in the organisations and elsewhere, says that it is very complicated, and that means it is complicated. The same is true of the transitional arrangements for the provision of early retirement benefits from a public occupational pension scheme. The representative proposal deals with both of these sets of rules, and it suggests that it should be difficult to assess the reasonableness of the proposal. At the same time, the central issue in the proposal may not be so difficult to address, namely: Is it unreasonable that, in the period from the age limit up to 67 years, there is a benefit which is at the level of what they would have been given if they were not disabled? My assessment is that it is not unreasonable and I am pleased that the majority of the committee shares that assessment. I notice that the representative of the Socialist Left Party points out that some will experience the possibility of coordinating their entire occupational pension with the applicable coordination rules. That's right, but it's also worth noting that it's not just a problem with special age limits. The gross scheme has some characteristics that are in favour of some and to the detriment of others. It also applies to occupational pension schemes in the private sector. I remind you that the majority of those with a contribution pension in the private sector do not have a disability coverage. They only receive disability benefits from popular fear. The representatives of the Centre Party and the Workers' Party propose that the Pensions Committee evaluate the pension reform should be tasked with assessing the issue raised in the proposal. Now, of course, it is up to the committee to interpret its mandate, but I would like to remind you that in the mandate of the sample it is clarified that they will concentrate their investigation on the age pension of the population and, where appropriate, cross-border areas against other schemes. I believe that the issue raised in the draft representative is beyond this. The mandate of the evaluation committee is already comprehensive, and I think we are well served to concentrate on the big lines. The implementation of the special age limit is slightly worse than the failure without a special age limit in the period from the special age limit up to 67 years. But, as I have said, it is also relevant to compare with other non-disasters who have a special age limit. It illustrates that it is not an unconditional advantage to have a special age limit, whether for work or not. For the unemployed, this means that you have to stop working, even if you may have health and motivation to continue, and thus go down from full pay to 66 pst. of wages and salaries, which is a significant decrease.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e335	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e340	I noticed that the Council of State said that the Pensions Committee would not deal with questions of this kind, but old-age pensions in the population with border areas against other schemes. I can hardly imagine something that has a stronger interface to popular rights than the coordination provisions. So I really hope there's room for the sample to look at it, at least if the sample itself thinks it's relevant. But what I was actually going to ask was, when the department is done processing the hearing replies now after the hearing on the special age limit, what does the Council of State think about the way forward? Will the Council of State come to the Grand Duchy without going the way for further negotiations, or will the Council of State contact the trade union movement for new discussions based on the hearing replies received?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e347	Of course, a selection is free to interpret its mandate, or it is not entirely free to do so, because it has to follow its mandate. But they are free to interpret their mandate – that was my opinion. I'm not going to detail the sample as to what they think is relevant, but that's my starting point. Then what we have at the hearing now, about special age limits, is quite concretely linked to the compulsory retirement. The government's proposal is that you should still have a special age limit, that you can still get off at the special age limit if you want to, but you don't have a duty to leave. There is a consensus that there is something the government and the Storing can decide. I do not see that we are going to have a round of negotiations on that. With regard to the larger issue of special age limits, with reference to what the Progress Party proposes, I believe it is both neat and reasonable that in the larger process of special age limits parties must also be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e356	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e364	Case No. 3 and 4 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e389	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines will be given with replies from the main speakers of the lots and up to seven lines with replies from members of the government. In addition, those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e398	I think everyone skewed a little bit when the Socialist Left Party and the Advance Party invited a broad deal about retirement in the Stortinge last year. These were just the two parties that chose to stand outside when the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left joined forces for a pension reform that contributed to increased justice, better distribution and generational solidarity. Before this reform, the fear of the people was referred to as an irresponsible pyramid game, and it was a matter of time before the pyramid fell. Lifetime adjustment made the money longer, in line with living longer. The pensioners get a little less over a longer period of time, while today's young people in return have to stand longer in work. It secured a pension from the first crown of the population by counting all income. There have been fewer minimum pensioners through the reform, and women come out better. The pension reform contributed to a sustainable commitment to the propensity of pensioners. What I am pleased about is that the Progress Party and SV are in fact now in practice linked to the pension reform by engaging in another form of underregulation with average price and wage growth, which the Workers' Party has proposed since 2016. From parliamentary discussions, the matter began to become an ordinary committee case when it was discussed in the Committee. The regulation of pensions was an operationalisation of the main objectives of the pension reform. The model chosen was that the pension payments should be adjusted annually to the wage growth, but reduced by 0.75 p.m., so that it would be profitable to work. It was considered reasonable that employees actually get a little more of the pay increase than those who have left the labour market. The model was also chosen because it gave better long-termity and predictability to the pensioners. But knowing that over time one will get a better outcome from one model over another is a poor consolation, even after two years of weak strengthening of purchasing power, as this year, when these come after four years of weakened purchasing power and the prospects are not good. Therefore, there is an overall committee that is now in place to change regulation, pending the recommendations of the sample evaluating the pension reform. Furthermore, there is an overall committee that asks the government to put forward the social security balances to the Stortinget in the spring session, and to engage in dialogue with pensioners’ organisations to establish quarterly meetings. A majority of the Committee – The Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the SV – will compensate for the difference between the current regulatory principles and the regulation of average wage and price increases with retroactive effect for social security settlement 2020. However, unlike 400,000 workers who were outsourced or lost their jobs as a result of covid-19, the pensioners did not lose in 2020, and that is one of the reasons why the minority does not support the proposal. We all agree that we're going to have a level of retirement that provides a basis for a good and worthy old age. However, in order to maintain the legitimacy of the pension system and the opening-up of the pension system, there has to be a link between what you pay for and what you get. A majority of the Committee therefore does not support an EU60 escalation plan, which weakens this coherence. Instead, the majority ask the government to inform the Storting about the pension committee’s assessment of minimum levels and how the pension committee’s position will be followed. In addition, the annual notification to the Storting on pensions and the income ratio of pensioners shall report on the evolution of the number of beneficiaries of the minimum pension level and the development of low income among pensioners. The majority of the Committee does not wish to grant the Pensioners' Association the right to negotiate on behalf of pensioners' organisations, which, as I understand, is only desired by the Pensioners' Association itself, in addition to the proposers. Nor does the majority of the Committee wish to place the Pensioners' Association in the Technical Calculation Committee, which has the task of determining the basis on which the remuneration is based. The main social organisations, representing more pensioners than any of the pensioners’ organisations, are clearly opposed to the proposal, and the majority agree with that assessment. Finally, today’s Stortinget ensures that employees with short, seasonal or small posts receive a pension from the first penny. It is a victory for the unions that has promoted this as a matter for several years. We need to create more and include more in the workplace. Saving a pension helps to make working pay more, and it's Right for. Thus, the setting should now be referenced.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e421	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e426	Pension from the first crown has been an important matter for the Workers' Party for a long time. We have made proposals on this several times in Stortinget, among others. last autumn. Then the Right voted against. The introduction of a pension from the first crown is important because one million employees in the private sector do not have a service income for the first $100,000 they earn. It's unfair. But today, the Right proposal for a pension from the first penny is being promoted. The proposal points to financial measures on the part of employers. The check is that this will not apply until 2023, almost two years in time. If the employer’s side is to be compensated for financially, why wait until 2023?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e435	First of all, I am very pleased that we have now together landed a pension from the first crown, but I remember that it also became applicable in the pension reform, which the Right and Workers' Party were united about, within the ranks of the people. I'm glad that one million employees will now benefit from having a pension from the first penny in the private sector. The difference between the Labour Party and the Right proposal today is one year. One of the reasons we talked about providing compensation for the employer's side is that we are in an economic situation that particularly characterises the industries where these employees are employed. It's the service industry, it's the travel industry, it's the hotel and restaurant. I notice that the Workers' Party does not want to promote any compensatory measures for the expenditure increases these industries receive, and I think that is unwise. But I think there's a reason today to celebrate that we're at least together to introduce a pension from the first crown, and I hope the Workers' Party will also do that, even if we do this at one year's intervals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e444	The representative, Nordby Lunde, has used words in the past to say that it is ‘ko-ko’ to help people who are struggling financially, when the Progress Party has wanted to lift more groups that are really struggling. In his contribution, the representative Nordby Lunde talks a lot about having a pension scheme with legitimacy and generational solidarity. None of us disagree. In Norway, the median income is now about 550 000 kroner, while the minimum pensioners earn about 200 000 kroner — well below the poverty line. Does Nordby Lunde really think that it is generational solidarity that a large group of pensioners should live well below the poverty line?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e451	I think the representative of Wiborg is mixing several debates. I think it's at this point, where we're at 'peak' oil and Norway is at 'peak' economically, that we have to start giving more priority to what we're going to spend taxpayers' money for. I notice that the Advance Party disagrees with that. Everyone is for our older people to have a good and worthy old age. At the same time, we believe that there should be a relationship between what you have paid in and what you get out. Otherwise, legitimacy and the integration of pension systems are weakened. I also want to remind the representative Wiborg that together we have made sure that the government of Solberg has increased the basic pension for married and cohabiting persons, increased the supplement in the minimum pension for single minimum pensioners by NOK 4000 in all three rounds, and increased the minimum pension for married and cohabiting pensioners. So the right and the representative Nordby Lunde are very much that we make sure that older people have a good and worthy old age in Norway. Then we can take the debate on the priorities of state finances another time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e462	The Pensioners Association has hundreds of thousands of members, and they have local teams in a lot of municipalities. They are doing a great deal of non-profit, and they want to strengthen this ideal effort, strengthen the interaction between pensioners and the public sector. They therefore ask for negotiating rights within clearly defined legal frameworks, the right to negotiate a pot that is cleared, a pot that can be used for senior policy action, possibly an increase in the minimum pension, so that one can strengthen the role of the Pensioners' Association in the future. Why does it not seem to be a natural development to involve pensioners more in such a way that one also has economic means of strengthening the ideal work?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e469	The right is for us to strengthen the instruments for pensioners, and we are to praise both the Pensioners' Association and the other pensioners' organisations for the work they do to strengthen cooperation between the political level and civil society in Norway to promote the issues of pensioners. But I would like to remind you that in the main organisations there are more pensioners than there are in the pensioners' organisations, which also help to strengthen the rights of pensioners. I believe that many of the measures mentioned here by the representative Lundtigen can be taken by the government without introducing the right to negotiate with the Pensioners' Association. I also believe that it would weaken the legitimacy of creating a magic pot between what is regulation and what is going to be another form of income, which the representative Lundteg obviously believes is a new pot to be distributed in some form of negotiation. I don't support that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e476	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e482	I will begin by addressing the proposals of which the Progress Party is part. How a society takes care of the elderly says a lot about the quality and propriety of society. My generation should be forever grateful for the society our parents and grandparents have created, and of which we all enjoy. The country's pensioners deserve a great deal of thanks both in word and not least in action. Ten years ago, The Storting adopted a pension settlement. All the parties voted in favour, with the exception of us in the Progress Party. The reason why we voted against it is because we were and are opposed to the country's pensioners being the balancing position in society. Had it not been unparliamentary, I would call it shameful. The party’s criticism of the pension system in Norway goes in several fields. Married and cohabiting pensioners are punished by the fact that other parties in this room want to reduce their basic pension if you are married or live together. Since the pension reform, the country's pensioners have been subject to 0.75 p.m., resulting in a decrease in purchasing power for several years. Several of the country's pensioners live well below the poverty line, and pensioners have been deprived of the opportunity to negotiate and be heard. Since the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the other parties were trodden through the pension reform, the Progress Party has repeatedly made proposals to change these injustices. Fortunately, some improvements were pushed through when we were in government, but much remains, and we have been voted down too often. We recorded that several parties gradually began to see more of the same unfairness as the Progress Party, but still there was never a majority, and thus the pensioners continued to lose. 18 years ago, there was a similar situation for the smallest — our children. There was a shortage of kindergartens. The progress party then went with the Socialist Left Party and created the kindergarten agreement, which has been a great success story. Since several of our efforts to improve the status of pensioners were downgraded, we chose to do it untraditionally again. Together with the Socialist Left Party and the Pensionist League, we are working out what could be a good compromise in the Stortinget. Both the Progress Party, SV and the Retirement Party want to go beyond this, but we moderated in the hope that we could generate a majority. The result we are seeing today. The country's pensioners will have a significantly better everyday life as a result of several of the achievements we get here today. Under-regulation of 0,75 pst. are removed and, in the future, the pensioners of the country will be regulated as the average of the wage and price increases. It's a great victory for which there'll be a majority today. At the same time, I am extremely disappointed and surprised that the Workers' Party, the Senter Party and the government parties will not be on an escalation plan to raise today's minimum pensioners to the poverty line. Especially that the Workers' Party and the Center Party are opposed to this, is revealing. Their so-called care and care for the weakest in society has proved to be a backdrop and a facade. In concrete policies, they are not willing to take the necessary action. When the government parties, together with the Workers' Party and the Center Party, have also taken over the Progress Party and SV's wish that no pensioners in Norway should live below the poverty line, I am surprised. But despite my disappointment at that, I am pleased with the victories the country's pensioners get today. I would particularly like to thank Audun Lysbakken, Solfrid Lerbreck, Jan Davidsen, Harald Olimb Norman and not least all our advisers and others who have worked hard to get these improvements and wins in place. But the party of progress is not satisfied, despite several good victories. We are going to continue the struggle for the country's pensioners, those who built the country, to be treated with the propriety and dignity they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e505	The representative of Erlend Wiborg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The President will note that when the representative is aware that some expressions are unparliamentary, he shall refrain from using them. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e514	Erlend Wiborg mentioned in his post that the Advance Party had got things pushed through in government for the benefit of the pensioners. Then I wonder, what then? Was it not the Finance Minister of the Progress Party who drew the social security settlement from Stortinget? Is it true that the Minister of Pensions of the Progress Party promised to come to Stortinget with an assessment of fairer pension regulation in good time before the social security settlement in 2016, and then also take into account the negative social security settlement in 2015? So why does it only happen now, after the Progress Party has gone out of government, and not when the Advance Party had power? I see that I raise a question: Can the representative Wiborg mention one example of the government's suggestion to increase minimum pensions while the Progress Party was in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e521	I have many examples of breakthroughs that the Progress Party received when we were in government, including in the case of pensioners. I can take an example, as I mentioned in my post: The progressive party is against married and cohabiting pensioners being cut off – i.e. reduced – their pension only because they are married or cohabiting. The progress party was reduced from 15 pst. to 10 pst. But the representative Lise Christoffersen voted against. Fortunately, the Progress Party was able to negotiate until it became a majority. As far as underregulation is concerned, we voted first against the underregulation when the Workers' Party introduced it. The years we spent in government, I myself suggested in this Chamber to abolish underregulation, but the Labour Party voted against. After we left the government, the Progress Party again promoted a proposal to abolish the underregulation. It was also voted down, among others. by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e528	Right is a party that is for those who have been working and have built the country to be counted out for it. The Progress Party is in favour of stepping up minimum levels up to the EU60, which turns out to reduce the relationship between being at work and, therefore, making payments, and what is out of it. In addition, the assumption for employees who will leave early is that they have earned about 750,000 kroner a year for nearly 40 years, in order to get off from 62. It turns out to be almost none. We are all for a decent and worthy old age in Norway. I have seen surveys showing that Norway is at the top of countries where it is good to get old — and this is how it should continue to be. Why does the Progress Party want to weaken work and make less money to build the country in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e535	What Nordby Lunde says is directly wrong. The progressing party considers that it is highly worthwhile to be at work. We have shown that both through several proposals in this matter and not least in general in our policy. When, for example, now abolishes the underregulation of 0,75 pst. and replace it with an average wage and price, it will also benefit most those who have been in work. But regardless of how long you have been working, I believe that in Norway we must be able to say that we should have a lack of propriety for those who, for various reasons, have not earned as much pension. That that floor should at least be the poverty line, I think should be a matter of course. The fact that you can stand on this platform and feel that it is quite right and reasonable for pensioners in Norway to lie around. 40 000 kroner below the poverty line, I think is unworthy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e542	It is a unanimous committee that asks the government to submit a bill to the Stortinget to regulate current pensions with average prices and wages, which will take effect from 2022. What is now the important issue is whether the principle should apply both in the year of real wage cuts and in the year of real wage increases for employees. My question is: does the Progress Party, as the Centre Party does, insist that that principle should apply in both situations, and that we thus receive a more equal payment of pensions than it will be for the employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e549	As I also said in my post, we are in the Progress Party for what we are saying here, that there is now an average between salary and price, and that there is a temporary scheme ahead of the pension commission. There is no secret that the Progress Party primarily – and this we will continue to work for – wants the country's pensioners to have exactly the same purchasing power trend as the rest of society. Unfortunately, the representative Per Olaf Lundteg is strongly opposed to it. If the rest of society has an average of the annual wage growth of e.g. 2 pst., the Progress Party believes that the country's pensioners should also receive 2 pst. This is because the Progress Party disagrees with the savings reform that the Central Party, together with the Workers' Party and the other parties in this Chamber, actually agreed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e554	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e559	First, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his thorough work. So to the matter: Regulation of pensions is one of the most important issues we have to deal with. It is therefore very gratifying, and in high time, that the social security settlement will again be dealt with in the Stortinget, as it was before the Progress Party and the Right in 2016 to everyone's surprise stopped sending the settlements to Stortinget. After all, we're talking about the income of over 981,000 people, and the number is increasing. In 2021, we'll be more than a million pensioners in this country, and at the same time, the number of people who work per pensioner is falling. The reform of pensions was necessary to ensure that the elderly live on a pension, including in future generations, and predictability is important. Retirement is not suitable for frequent changes. At the same time, we must constantly be willing to look at improvements in order to correct social imbalances. The working party wants a fair pension for everyone. That means increasing the minimum level of solitude. The working party was the first to propose an escalation. In each state budget since 2016, we have proposed an annual supplement of NOK 4000 in addition to the social security funds. In 2020, we were defeated. Now, fortunately, the government parties and the Progress Party have turned around – first through a surprising one-off amount on the tamp of last year, but which should not be permanent, and now, on a proposal from the Workers' Party, the Progress Party has fortunately turned around on it too. The working party is happy that there will be a permanent supplement. The Labour Party believes that an increase in the minimum level must apply to all with minimum benefits from social security, such as disability, people on redundancy pay and single dependants, but unfortunately we are all on our own. Another injustice is that the disability has been deprived of the partial protection against the adjustment of his or her retirement pension, thanks, among other things, to his or her age. The party of progress. Failure can't compensate by working any more. The working party shall not be given a majority to rectify this injustice, and they should be aware of it. Fair pensions are for the Workers' Party to ensure that the labour force continues to be able to dispose of pensions at the age of 62, as they were given the pension reform. With the Progress Party and the SV's proposal to increase the minimum level of the EU60, it will in practice be impossible, especially for those who are not entitled to a contractual pension in addition to social security. It will require an income as an active asset of NOK 750000 for 40 years. How many have had it? The Labour Party believes that a fair pension is also about working people who pay social security contributions every year, having something left for it and not ending up as a zero-pensioner. There will be many active people who end up in the minimum pension traps with the proposal promoted by the Progress Party and SV today. Fair pensions are also about fair rules for the annual regulation of pensions during payment. Pensioners shouldn't go into negatives when others go into positives. The Labour Party has proposed this over and over again since 2017, but has been downgraded and downgraded. Finally, the Government and the Advance Party have now turned around. It had hardly happened without constant pressure from the Workers' Party, the trade union movement and the pensioners' own organisations. If it had been adopted in 2017, an average pensioner today had NOK 20 000 more to walk with this year. Thanks to the Workers' Party, it will now have retroactive effect from the settlement for 2020, which we are dealing with here today. Last but not least: just retirement is also about fair occupational pensions, first-aid pensions for everyone, in both the public and private sectors, because there are some in the public sector who are still hanging a little bit. The Labour Party has also stood rather alone in this demand – against the government parties and against the Progress Party. Finally, we are also there with the government and the Progress Party's last spin-off operation, but only fully implemented from 2026 onwards – why? Finally, what is a reasonable minimum level of social security? The Workers' Party wants the Pensions Committee, which will review the pension reform in a year's time, to provide an assessment of it as part of the social security system, where the consideration of the workers also has to be included, and where those who pay back experience something to be regained. That's what gives and ensures a social security system with redistribution from them with the most to them with the least. If the legitimacy of the people's fear increases, it is actually those with little or no own merit who become the great losers. Then I take up the suggestions that the Workers' Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e584	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e590	The right and the working party agree that it should be good and safe to get old in Norway, with decent income and pensions. We are also in order to maintain the legitimacy and openness of today's system, and to have a good distribution in the pension system. But there still has to be a relationship between what you pay in and what you get out. So we've been careful to go into raising the minimum level to a level that makes working pay no longer. I could imagine hearing a little more about the Workers' Party's assessment of just the EU60 and the possibility for those who have been in the labour market and built the country to actually be able to get rid of by filling 62 with the system promoted by the Progress Party and the SV today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e597	Thank you for the question. As indicated by my article, the Workers' Party believes that there is a basis for raising the minimum level of social security, but we have not set a final goal for what should be the final sum, or the final level, of it. We want a broader review of that, because it then intervenes to those degrees into other important parts of our popular security system, just what Nordby Lunde himself had in mind: the right to go off at the age of 62. Almost no one can in the future achieve such a level of minimum performance without making adjustments to the legislation that applies to get rid of at 62. This has to be seen in context. And not least: the entire population's fear rests on the legitimacy of the entire population, whether people earn much or little. The day that those who earn on average and up, don't feel that they get something left, but just simply become the minimum pensioners, robs legitimacy. Then the pressure comes to dissipate the fear of the people, and they lose it at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e606	First, I am pleased that the Workers' Party today is helping to create a majority in order to make adjustments and remove some of the unfairness of the pension reform that they themselves stood behind and introduced. But in the case of minimum pensioners, I hear a lot about it having to be assessed, you have to figure out, you have to look at, etc. Now it is ten years since the adoption of the pension reform. The minimum pensioners of the country must pay for their rent, they must pay for bread, milk and other expenses. It has to be paid today. Not everyone has time to wait for a pension commission in the future. And then my simple question, which I ask the representative to answer clearly yes or no: does the Labour Party think it is right that we have pensioners serving below the poverty line in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e613	Thank you for the question. No, the Labour Party has not said that we should consider, investigate, look at the minimum performance before we escalate. As the first party, we promoted that proposal in 2016. Did we get support from the Progress Party? No, no, no. It was the Christian People's Party that saved it through negotiations in the Great Britain and pressured the government to agree to it. As I was also in my line to Wiborg in the city: When at all has the Progress Party in the government made suggestions from government teams to step up the minimum pension? Not once. When we say that we want an assessment of what is the final level of an escalation, which we have already been doing since 2016 for our part, it's precisely because of what I was talking about in the answer to Heidi Nordby Lunde, that this intervenes in the rights of very many other pensioners who also don't have a huge pension to boast of. We want to know what we're doing before we set a final level.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e622	I record that the representative believes that the Workers' Party has stood alone for a pension from the first kroner. In all probability, I have to say that it's not true. But then to the question, during the hearing we had in this case, the Labour Party representative asked what level the minimum pension should be. None of the hearing aids had an answer to this. And when we propose to have a fixed retirement plan for minimum pensioners up to the EU60 level, the Labour Party is voting against this. At the same time, they are associated with the government in the argumentation. Is it true that the Labour Party has seen down a selection to find out how far away the poverty line is from having the minimum pensions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e629	Thank you for the question. That's right, what the representative Lerbreck says, that SV has also supported our proposal for a pension from the first penny. There were several of the things that I said in my post that we were reasonably alone about, and looked away at Wiborg, which SV has also been on, but I did not go to work that detailed. We've been together about a lot of things. We also agree on an increase in the minimum pension level. As I have said and repeated and repeated: we have been doing it since 2016 by the Labour Party, but we have not landed on what should be the final level. The reason for that is exactly what I'm saying, that it then interferes with the rights of very many other pensioners. We need to know what we're doing in relation to them as well. It is quite significant when Lerbreck himself mentions that none of the hearing bodies were able to respond to what is a reasonable level. It's precisely because the question is so complicated that it requires a little more thorough investigation before we conclude at the top. But we're going to keep escalating until we have that assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e638	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e643	People live longer, older people have better health, and this is progress for Norway. Several older people are referred to by the government as an ‘fire wave’, and this is presented as an economic problem. The center party sees it quite differently – this is an opportunity, it's great that people live longer. This situation needs to be addressed in order to build Norway more strongly. The Centre Party will facilitate the strengthening of pensioners’ organisations and older people’s councils in the municipalities, so that they are better able to engage more effectively on an ideal basis for the elderly and those in need in their local environment, in cooperation with the community’s professionals. It will strengthen both the quality and the local economy. For the Pensioners' Association, the most important issue is the right to negotiate. The centre party has supported the right to negotiate with the Association of Pensioners and SAKO for several years, and we are taking it up again here. In order to prepare Stortinget's treatment of social security payments, it is natural, in our opinion, that pensioners have a right to negotiate with the State. Negotiations take place in accordance with specific rules and procedures, according to the statutory regulation of pensions, so that neither up nor down can be negotiated, but a pot can be negotiated for different actions that are prioritised by pensioners’ organisations. Senior policy measures and minimum pensions are natural themes within such a defined pot. These negotiations will then come to an end, or they will not come to an end. Therefore, the negotiations are to be seen as a preparation for Stortinget's treatment of the situation of pensioners. It is the Stortinget that has the ultimate responsibility, seafaringly, according to the Constitution § 75, but this is therefore a preparation for it, and it is important to clarify it. The centre party is also a member of the Pensioners’ Association’s participation in the Technical Calculation Committee for the statement of income. Why? Well, because it's in the forums that you get a deep insight into what is the basis of the wage growth and the price increase, respectively, that are taken into account in both pay and pensioners' settlements. To have transparency, to have responsibility, to have influence, to have obligations, to make negotiations easier, and to have a better common understanding of the reality of what you're facing. The central party will continue to participate in the meetings of the Government's Contact Committee. There are almost one million pensioners, and there should only be a lack of the pensioners' main organisation, the Pensioners' Association, which is the Pensioners' Association, regardless of their previous professional relationship, to participate here and submit their opinions and assessments to an important forum. The negotiations on the status of pensioners in relation to this pot should then take place in the spring and should be transmitted to the Stortinget through its own proposal from the government in the spring. The appropriations that come there must be taken from the miscellaneous item. As I was in the line change, the Central Party is very clear that the pensions are to be regulated as an average of the wage and price increases. This applies both when there is a real wage increase and when there is a real wage decrease. We see here that there are several parties that are in favour of using that principle when it's a real wage increase, so the pensioners get something less than what the employees get, and then they don't apply the principle when it's a real wage cut, that means that the pensioners don't get the advantage they should have when they give something when it went into real pay. That is why we stand on the same principle in both real wage increases and real wages reductions. So we're going in to take away the decrease that we're going to have at negative 0.75 pst. from the growth of wages and salaries for other groups. In the case of the minimum pension, the Central Party has systematically raised it, and we're going to continue with an escalation plan to raise the minimum pensions. I would also like to say that the Central Party supports the position of the Subsidiary Committee on IX, plus NOK 4000 in permanent increase to the pensioners. It's a floor for us, and it's an opportunity for us to put it on the floor. Then, if any, at later conditions, when it's being treated, can provide increased minimum pensions on top of that amount. I'm taking up the suggestions that the Center Party alone is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e668	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg has then addressed the proposals to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e675	The centre party is the subject of a proposal to place the Pensioners' Association in the Technical Calculation Committee for the statement of income. An overall trade union movement has expressed strong scepticism and fears that it will weaken the decisive role of the sample in the formation of wages. When we know how crucial our model of wage formation is for Norway's opportunities, for still low unemployment and for a competitive business, the Centre believes that the trade movement is wrong, or does the representative Lundtigen share the concerns about how this will affect wage formation in Norway? And if he shares those concerns, then why is the Central Party behind the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e680	That's really special, what the representative Grande here says. This may indicate that there is no objective professional basis provided by the Technical Calculation Committee. Most people believe that technical estimations produce a number material in which the growth of wages and salaries and the level of wages are an objectively best fact on which to base. I've never realized that there's going to be any problem if the Pensioners' Union comes in here and gets insight into how one comes up with the numbers, because it's going to be objective, correct numbers that all parties are going to agree on. And the numbers that one comes up with in TBU, should be directly taken into account for the pensioners' subsequent change in pensions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e686	The first question is a little bit in the lengthening of the question from the representative of the Grande, because only the Pensioners' Association wants to be able to negotiate on behalf of the other pensioners' organisations. So I wonder why the Center Party wants to override the other pensioners' organizations, who don't want this. That was question number one. Question number two goes on how the pot that is to be negotiated arises, all the time that this is regulated, which provides security and certainty for pensioners, who have paid for their own pension, that you get what you have actually paid for. Then the representative says Lundtegen that there is a pot that can be negotiated about other things, that does not directly affect revenue, but he also says that it can lead to negotiations on minimum levels and additions. That means that you actually go into those negotiations without knowing whether your self-appointed rights are being respected, because it can be negotiated with one association, led by Jan Davidsen, the Pensioners' Union. Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e693	When the Centre Party has a special focus on the Pensioners Association, it is because it is the only organisation that is organised in such a way that it is a membership organisation for all pensioners, regardless of what relationship they have previously had to different professional situations. So it's the broad-minded organization, and it's the broad-minded organization that has teams in each municipality. Pensioners linked to various professional associations have no organisation in the municipality and can never play the role that the Pensioners Association can play and that they already play. In the case of the pot, it doesn't occur. There's no pot coming up. Treatment in the Stortning, for example in 2021, defines the pot to be negotiated on the next pension settlement. So it's clearly clear what the Storing decides. And that's the way pensions are to be legalized when earned, it's not to be negotiated.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e700	First, I would like to thank the representative Lundtigen for having participated in several of the important steps we are taking here, including: to abolish the under-regulation of 0,75 pst. But I would also like to thank the representative for joining in on some of the proposals that do not get a majority today and that are about letting the country's pensioners get the right of all other groups in society, among other things. to participate and influence and negotiate their own future. That's good. I hope that together we can press for the Workers' Party and the Right to realize that as well. But I registered that the representative Lundtigen thought that now you're raising the minimum wage by $4,000, and then that's good, and then you can assess it in the future. Then I ask the question that I have asked more: Does the representative Lundtigen and the Senterpartiet believe that it is acceptable that we have pensioners in Norway who live well below the poverty line?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e707	I did not say that NOK 4000 was good; I said on the contrary that it is a floor. I said that the Center Party is free to improve the situation of minimum pensioners at a later date. The centre party is not in favour of the Progress Party, which is talking about a poverty line related to the EU60. The ratio of benefits paid by general government in the EU and in Norway is quite different, so it is wrong to make such a direct comparison. But we're going to go in to raise the minimum pensions, because it'll benefit everyone, no matter what professional relationship you've had. The level of costs currently borne by single minimum pensioners is so high in relation to the pension that it needs to be corrected, and therefore the Centre has made concrete proposals on repeated occasions. The last time we had an increase of NOK 10 000 in the state budget at that point, and we're going to continue that escalation plan. I can promise the representative, Wiborg.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e712	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e717	Getting something in a locked situation requires those who want something to sit down and talk. SV took the initiative in the autumn to discuss pensions. The Progress Party responded positively to our invitation, and thus we, together with the Pensioners' Association, cooperated on this proposal. I must say that the joy is great on our side when we see that the proposal has led forward. We have managed to stack on our legs a number of times to put an end to the loss of purchasing power in retirement, and we get multiples to make the increase in the minimum pension fixed in December 2020 permanent. We had a hope of getting a multiple for a mandatory escrow plan for the minimum pension. The size has been mutually acknowledged to be too low for the minimum pension level. We suggest raising minimum pensions annually by DKK 7 500 until the EU poverty line is reached. What we think is a very good suggestion to lift the pensioners out of poverty, but unfortunately the other party won't commit itself to it. The estimates for the minimum pension level are, as it looks now, mildly caregiver, if one looks 20–30 years ahead. This is not discussed in particular in the setting, but there is good reason to believe that this will be a hot potato and a problem for the next few years, especially in the context of the treatment of the pension selection. The question is whether we should let the differences develop as much as this does. This is about pensions far below the poverty line in the EU. The majority of the committee is trying to startle that this is a more than 47-billion-billion-dollar issue. NOK in 2050. If you set the option to most likely continue to be a seekable number of minimum pensioners, this is a very serious number. Should the community take responsibility for fewer poor people in Norway, or should we not? In the VG on Sunday, I saw that the Labour Party used the argument that the low-paid have so low a salary that they therefore cannot raise the pension list. It's a very bad argument. It can't be that because we can't lift everyone out of poverty now, we shouldn't do it for this group. They need to be able to maintain that the case of a pensioner's pensioner's allowance is about a pensioner's allowance, not everything else we work for. All in all, this is a retirement day. We should have seen, of course, that we came even further when it comes to giving the pensioners their legitimate place in society, in the Technical Calculation Selection and a concrete and real right to negotiate. We note that, with this, the proposers have managed to press the majority of the committee to vote in favour of a right to negotiate – I refer to what is in VIII – but I expect that it will be clarified how real these negotiations are. Is it e.g. so that it will be up to Stortinget if there is a disunity protocol, or will it become today, where different parties will only be able to sign the document and ‘that’s it’? Finally, I would like to thank those who have cooperated with us for their very good cooperation, and recommend SV's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e734	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e739	The SV and the original proposal of the Progress Party propose that the level of minimum pension should be at EU60 level. That means that you must have earned 750,000 kroner for 40 years in order to get rid of early retirement. The number we've got from the department shows that there will be about 40,000 people a year who can't get out of early retirement. Why does SV think it is right that shopkeepers, cleaners and those who earn little in the industry should not have the opportunity to get rid of early retirement, because the requirement has become so high that they will not have income that warrants that possibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e744	The problem that the representative describes here will be less and less in future. We're open to finding solutions for them, but we can't let it stop us from lifting tens of thousands of pensioners out of poverty. What the Labour Party says is that tens of thousands of pensioners should be poor throughout the entire pension period because the Labour Party seems to find it complicated to find a scheme for those who cannot get rid of the AFP at 62 years. However, this clearly does not apply to the NOK 4000 agreed in December 2020, which the Labour Party itself has proposed should be a permanent increase. It would also affect, just as the representative described here. I mean, this kind of hangs out a little bit. It's a problem, yes, but we can join in and discuss solutions to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e749	This is one of the things that we've taken up in the meetings we've had, and in the comments we've made, and I think it's remarkable that you don't have a better answer to that right now. If you had adopted the proposal that was put forward here today, there would be a lot of people who earn little, who wouldn't have the opportunity to get rid of retirement early, to be able to take out the people's pension from the age of 62. Not everyone has the AFP, and even those who have the AFP, would have to have an average income of about 500,000 kroner in order to get off early. When SV says you've been working on this proposal for a very long time, being thorough and working with the Pensioners' Association on it, why haven't you thought through these things in advance? And does that not show that the pension system is so complex that some things need to be investigated more, so that we do not get unintended solutions for those who are struggling in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e756	Neither the Progress Party, the SV nor the Pensionist Association have claimed that this proposal for a representative is an answer to everything. It is not, but it is a good initiative to lift an unlikely number of people out of poverty. As far as I know, the Labour Party has not come up with a corresponding proposal to lift the corresponding number out of poverty. There's a significant difference here, which goes on the ability to get rid of AFP or not. Now, AFP is a system that's tariff-fixed. In this way, it will be an argument for even more people to organise themselves, and for the level of organisation to rise – without that being the answer to everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e762	We are discussing today as if the number of people living on low incomes and in poverty is increasing, but with the pension reform, the responsible parties have made sure that the number of people living on the lowest level of pensions is decreasing. SV chose to stand outside of the agreement. The value of health and care services is also not included in the calculation, and it also turns out that the minimum pensioners living alone in median wealth actually have NOK 200000 on book. I think it might help correct the picture. SV is very busy with the social partners, as we are all, and in particular the employee associations. My question to SV is: why is it that they go against the very clear recommendations of the employee associations regarding the inclusion of the Pensioner Association in the Technical Calculation Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e769	When it comes to the number of minimum pensioners, it's true that it's getting fewer and fewer, and so we also think it's a good idea to lift the minimum pension list out of poverty. Then the representative comments on the wealth of the minimum pension list. There I must honestly say that I don't fully understand it. I myself stand in the tax register with some wealth – not very much, less than NOK 100,000 – but I don't understand where it comes from, because I have over $4 million. Indebtedness. So it could be pretty variable for each single. Then ask the representative about TBU. We think that pensioners should have a legitimate place in society. They represent a difficult group of people and should therefore also be able to participate in the selection that is involved and determine the prices in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e778	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e783	SV and the Progress Party have merged to change significant entries in the plan, which was signed by a large majority in Stortinget. SV was also involved in supporting the decision that resulted from the pension reform, together with the Labour Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People’s Party – and the Center Party, which we heard earlier today. By presenting such proposals as this is a direct violation of the objectives of the pension agreement on a resilient pension system. That way, it's weakening the reform. If the pension reform is to have the intended effect, the main principle must be established over time. It is not advisable to make fundamental changes to a representative proposal without the consequences being addressed and seen in conjunction with all other pension benefits. The pension system is dependent on heavy social and holistic considerations and is coherent. The pension scheme shall secure a pension for the ageing population in Norway to live on, now and in the future. The economy of the state and the sustainability of the welfare society are crucial to the level of pension benefits. The number of persons employed per pensioner is negative. It does the same for childbirth. At the same time, when we are planning to scale down the oil revenues from the Norwegian base, we are forced to keep the reserves of the pension system in another way. We don't do that by constantly proposing changes without seeing the healing. Of course, we have to make sure that our elderly people have a decent pension. This is because they have paid for a pension in their entire professional life, together with the employers, who have paid an even greater part. Solberg's government has raised a minimum of one-off pensioners at three rates of NOK 4000. In addition, the budget agreement for 2021 even raised this group, at NOK 5000. As far as the regulatory principle is concerned, doctors have been established since the pension reform in 2011. The report ‘High income growth for the elderly’, from 2019, shows that older people have experienced an overall increase in income, although growth has decreased in recent years. In periods of moderate pay resolution, the regulation of the pension will be the same low or negative. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that the age pension list ensures a development in purchasing power, regardless of the regulatory model. Purchasing power is affected by more than the actual gross yield size – e.g. to increase the minimum pension of single minimum pensioners, tax incentives for pensioners, reasonable health services, municipal care services, and support schemes such as: for transport. It is the overall income and expenditure picture that shows how our older people are doing. Raising old-age pensioners to an EU60 level in general requires more than good will. It requires a thorough analysis of the consequences, in view of the income it receives in the future, and not least the number of working children. Increasing the minimum pension above the EU poverty line will cost more than 6 billion according to the Post-Aftenpost. NOK 2021, and in 2050 it will cost 46 billion. kr. Such an increase in costs is accompanied by a thorough analysis, rather than by a proposal for a representative in an election year. The government-emerging selection to evaluate the pension reform will make a broad assessment with a view to possible adjustments, including against border surfaces, that we have heard. Therefore, we should wait for the retirement benefit before considering major changes in the pension scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e800	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e805	In the past, the Christian People's Party has been a good support in Stortinget for some of what we are discussing today, for example. in order to maintain the protective supplement in the old-age pension until late, and it was the Christian People’s Party that was the first to support the Workers’ Party’s proposal to increase the minimum pension by NOK 4000 from 2016. But by 2020 it was over. The screening plug-in failed, and the proposal from the Working Party was reduced by NOK 4000 to the minimum pensioners. So my question is, Has the Christian People's Party in the government forgotten the poor and the minimum pensioners, or has the Christian People's Party been overrun by the others? After all, the Christian People's Party joined the government in January 2019, and the Progress Party went out in January 2020, so I wonder if it is such that the Christian People's Party had to give up on these important issues – with the background of the Granavolden platform, which includes. The party of progress was opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e818	The Christian People's Party has not forgotten those who have the least in retirement. We have stood up for the increase that has occurred over the last few years, and that has led to a reduction in the minimum pensioner of 12,000. I think it was a little bit more than that. From 2017 to 2018 there was a decrease of 12,000, and now there was a decrease of 16 pst. When there's a special age limit, there's a big question that the selection has to deal with, and we're waiting for that result. When that report comes from the selection in a year, it is clear that there will be a point to raise it, if it is not already done in the coming submission. So we're not going to fail.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e825	Thanks for the answer. I see that point, that the Christian People's Party in the Great Britain has been a good support, but when the Christian People's Party came into government, there was something missing on the rise side. That is why I wondered if it might be the Progress Party in the negotiations on the Granavolden platform that said no to the Christian People's Party that you will not be able to vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal of NOK 4000 more to the minimum pensioners in 2020. What I was asking about was not special age limits, but the extra protection supplement for disabled retirement pensioners, which they have had in the past because they cannot compensate for living adjustments by standing longer at work. There, the Christian People's Party has been a solid support in the Stortinget ever since 2014 – and good to keep it, taken hold of the Left and secured majority. But as soon as the Christian People's Party went to government, it failed, and now it's closed. So the question is – again: is there pressure from the other parties in the government that has made the Christian People's Party change its position, or has it happened on its own keel?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e832	When we have cooperation, it is clear that we need to discuss until solutions can be negotiated. But the Christian People's Party will not fail, and when we get the report, we will face up to the issues that we have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e837	The party of progress and the Christian People's Party has often fought together for the weak, and that's fine. But I'm surprised that we now have to go Christian People's Party after our legs to increase pensions for the weak, for the retired. The representative himself spent a lot of his time arguing why you should not increase the pension, and why you should not get pensions up to the poverty line. But I'll leave it. What surprises me is that the Christian People's Party will not even allow the pensioners to come and negotiate. Why doesn't the Christian People's Party want to let the retired people be heard through the Pensioners' Association?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e845	Thank you for the question. Christian People's Party has a view of pensioners' organisations: they are not employers' organisations. And it's not all the pensioners' organizations that agree that the Pensioners' Association should be their speaker's ear. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e850	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e855	The pension reform is unfair. It hits many hard and increases the class distinction between pensioners. It allows pensioners who have both work and health to work until they're over 70, to get more in retirement than they used to have in wages. At the same time, other life-long restraints in their retirement receive, and more than before receive barely more than the minimum pension. If you get sick and have to go out of the first few years after age 62, either because you can't work anymore, or because you're pressured out of work, you're at risk of getting a minimum-pension age pension, or a couple thousand more dollars. This applies not only to those with the lowest wage, but also to those who have an income around the average wage in Norway, and this will be much worse in the future. Getting a living adjustment of the pension works so that people are forced to work longer, sometimes much longer, than the whole thing tolerates, to achieve what every year was the goal of the retirement pension, namely 66 pst. of the income. The fact that politicians – from many parties – support a system that pushes people to work longer, no matter what profession they have, and what health they have, is unacceptable in our view. We see that the lifestyle adjustment means that new groups of pensioners will only get what is equal to today's minimum pension level, and that's unsustainable, we think. In particular, disability comes out of the pension reform. Instead of earning a retirement pension to 67 years of age, which has not been achieved today, earning a retirement pension in the future will stop the year of 61 years of age. It will give very many people an old age pension down to the minimum pension level. In addition, the effects of life expectancy adjustment and the disability cannot have a contractual pension, AFP. For this reason, Red proposes that disabled people should earn a retirement pension of 67 years, all of which actually receive private occupational pension schemes, even when they become disabled. It will stop one of the most unfair outcomes of the pension reform. In dealing with this case, Red has also made proposals for half-life adjustments for disabled old-age pensioners, what is called the protective supplement. It is disappointing that this proposal does not receive a majority today. It is worth noting that both the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party do not support the proposal in the Chamber, although Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has previously said the following: ‘Working may compensate for the survival adjustment by continuing to work. Those who are illiterate can't do that. That they were not to be shielded for any of the lifestyle adjustments would be unacceptable." It is disappointing that the Christian People’s Party does not stand by this clear promise to the afflicted. One of the main points of the pension reform is that it should be so-called voluntary to leave from 62 years if you need it, but too many low wages do not have this possibility in practice, because they have earned too little through life. For even more people, when you go off, you're going to get an approximation of the minimum pensioner. That too is unsustainable. Red will, of course, support any proposal today that draws towards a fairer treatment of pensioners. We see that today we have a pension scheme that rewards those who are healthy and highly paid. It is unfair for ordinary workers, the labourers, to lose on pension reform and to have to cope with a gradually unwarranted low income. What's needed is to get a change in the pension system, so that we don't punish those who have a job where they wear down their work health and have to retire earlier than those who have a job that's not as tiring. Maybe they're politicians, maybe they're academics, maybe they're priests -- what do I know -- but a system that doesn't punish those who take heavy lifting at work, whether it's at home or in industry, is a long-term and necessary goal. Today, our goal is to get an impact on proposals that to some extent correct some of the biases, but at a very close point, take hold of the fundamental injustices. Then we have to change the whole system. I'll take up Red's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e877	Then the representative Björn Moxnes has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e882	The work on the pension reform has been ongoing since 2001, when the government of Stoltenberg I set up the pension commission. The path to full pension reform has been a complex process, with a long cross-political history. It has also been about balancing the interests of different occupational groups, genders and generations and finding good compromises over time. In order to succeed with the intention of the pension reform, to ensure a sustainable pension system, it is important that we stand by the decisions that have been taken. It is important that the main principles of pension reform remain constant over time and that there is a broad political upturn in the reform of the Grand Duchy. I believe that we should continue what has been the success criterion so far, namely to find good cross-political compromises that are thoroughly established and anchored. To this end, on 12 June 2020, a public body was appointed to evaluate the pension reform. The selection shall include, inter alia: consider the implementation of the regulation of the old-age pension during payment and arrangements of the minimum levels of the old-age pension. The committee is composed of representatives from the parties in the Grand Duchy, who either directly or through government participation have supported the pension reform, as well as professionals with special knowledge of pensions and public finances. There is a Council in which the social partners, the Association of Pensioners, the Joint Organisation of Disabled Persons and the Finances of Norway participate and which shall accompany and record the work. In order to ensure that younger generations are involved in designing the future pension system, representatives from the youth parties participate in the work through a youth panel. The representative’s proposal raises a number of questions and will have far-reaching consequences, among other things. for government expenditure, the context of the pension system, incentives to be employed and distributed. Ideally, we would have waited for the decision-making basis we get from the evaluation committee before taking a position on many of these questions. An overall committee is in favour of shifting the regulation of current pensions to the average price and salary growth from 2022. This also has the support of the government parties. It is worth noting that it is not the primary position of the proposers, which is that the pension should be regulated in the same way as wages. It will probably come closest to what the Workers' Party has proposed for several rounds in Stortinget. It is also worth adding that this is not a breach of the pension agreement. To the extent that some pensioners out there have been led to believe that the so-called underregulation disappears, that does not mean it. It means, to put it simply and brutally, that you're underregulating in a different way, but that gives more evenness in regulation and is not a danger of falling into real wage growth, to say it that way, with poor pay settlement. At the same time, an introduction in 2022 provides some time to start work and adapt the legislation and consider how to adjust the ratios and splits, if any, and how to conduct the early take-off conditional test. There is also some time for administrative preparation for Nav and other pension providers. The majority of the Committee agrees that, in the context of the social security settlement for 2021, compensation should be granted for the social security settlement of 2020, corresponding to the difference between day-to-day regulatory principles and regulation as the actual average of wage and price increases. This is very administratively demanding to implement for Nav, and it may have consequences for other assigned work, in a very demanding and difficult situation for Nav, of course. I deepened it in the letters of reply to the committee. But of course it has to be implemented. The majority of the Committee agrees that the amount of DKK 4000 adopted in December 2020 is to be continued as a permanent increase in the minimum single pension from 1 January 2021 on the top of the social security balance for 2021. I think we should have waited for the decision base we get from the evaluation committee before taking a position on further increases in minimum levels, but as usual: majority is majority. We comply with the Storting decision, and we will see how this can be done without excessive administrative costs. How quickly Nav gets paid such compensation, I can't answer it now. There are a number of issues that need to be addressed, such as: the relationship with public service pension and coordination. Increased minimum levels do not only increase costs. It weakens the employment incentives, and it makes it possible for fewer people to take out a pension before 67 years of age. I believe that the evaluation committee will provide a valuable basis for decision-making on how the level of minimum benefits should be balanced against other key objectives of the pension reform. I'm glad that there's a majority to keep Technical Calculation Committee, TBU, as today. Finally, I would like to reiterate that I believe it has an independent value that you have as well-explored decisions as possible when they are about as important issues as retirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e912	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e917	When the Labour Party took part in the first meeting of the parliamentary leaders, we were quite clear that we should go into this matter, it was important for us to get a pension from the first crown. It's unfair that a lot of people don't earn the first $100,000 they earn, and that's why it was important for us. The government parties have voted against this on a number of occasions, but now, for the thirteenth hour, a Saturday morning was set up and said that they were to introduce a pension from the first crown – not at this time, but only in 2023 – and the costs were to be estimated that the state should take. That's my question to the Council of State: if you agree that the pension from the first crown is fair, why can't you put it in now, when you also say that the state is going to take the bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e924	I do not reveal any secret when I say that the government probably had a slightly different process and plan for the process when it came to retirement from the first crown. That being said, it is an important principle. It has never been the principle itself or the idea that it should also apply to those who do not have it today – that is, of course, in popular opinion – who have been the challenge. Then there are two elements that the representative asks about. One is: Why from 2023? Well, there's two reasons for that. Firstly, there is an extremely demanding situation for many in Norwegian business, and many of those who have workers who are going to benefit from the pension from the first crown are also those who are the hardest hit now by the corona, infectious diseases restrictions, tourists who are not coming, etc. This implies a certain transitional period. Secondly, it is not in the proposal of the majority that one must have an eternal compensation crown for crowns, but it is about doing something to compensate the companies for this, so that it should not lead to an increase in costs, but only a pension from the first crown – in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e933	Thanks for the answer. It sounds very random, then, when you say you're going to cover some of the costs for those who don't have a pension from the first penny today. There are very many companies that have it, fortunately, and the cost per employee of introducing a pension from the first penny will well amount to about NOK 2000 for an employee. I also understand that what has been agreed on is that you should not let the 2-percent apply in the first place, you should also have a transitional arrangement for your employees. Why is it the employees who have to take the cost again? Why not introduce a 2-percent rule from the first day you could do that? In our view, it would have been more fair, and I don't understand why the government is dragging its legs in establishing a system that can hit them that actually applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e940	I have just explained why I think there are good reasons why you should have an introduction from 2023. There has also been a process related to this. As the representative is probably familiar with, there is now a report out at the hearing. It is the Ministry of Finance that really has this, not the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, although I am the one standing here, and it is dealt with in the Labour and Social Committee. So that's how we're based on what's adopted by the majority, and what the majority comments say, but our intention is to introduce a pension plan from the first crown. We see that the majority of the Stortinget – which is part of which the government parties are – will look at a temporary compensation, but this is not a matter of making changes in the pension level or percentage level. It has not been up to discussion, although there is no explicit statement about this in the comments, as far as I remember.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e947	When I hear the Council of State, I hear a system defense that is very concerned about defending it existing, but forgets something of the most important job for us politicians: seeing the individual. For reality, the country's pensioners have lost purchasing power for five out of the last six years. They have been subject to their pension by 0.75 every year since the adoption of the pension reform, on which the Right joined forces with the Labour Party and the Centre Party. Now, luckily, we're getting a lot better by getting it over to pay and the price, but what the council forgets is that for today's pensioners, rent, electricity and food are going to be paid now. Not everyone has time to wait for a pension commission to wait for new investigations. So my question to the government council is, has he forgotten the individual pensioner, who has expenses now?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e957	I haven't forgotten the individual pensioner. I see – and I don't know if it's on purpose, maybe it's just an accident – that the Progress Party expresses itself a little unclear when you say that the underregulation of 0.75 is gone. This is true, but it does not mean that the principle that today’s pensioners and the current payment should also contribute to the split layer as the pension reform is gone. In many ways you can turn this around and say that the Progress Party – now I have a little poor short-term memory, but as far as I remember, the Progress Party put it in government too for a few years, among other things. in the years referred to by the representative Wiborg – now has joined the main principle of the pension agreement, namely that today’s pensioners should also contribute, but now by another means to regulate, which has its advantages in protecting the downturn, and its disadvantages in that, if there are good years in the payroll, pensioners will also have less left than they would have done with the old model. Otherwise, most pensioners who were retired earlier have earned on the old model.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e966	I think the Council of State would have liked to listen a little bit more to some of what I was inside in my post. It's the lead view of the Progress Party that the country's pensioners are going to have exactly the same percentage income trend as the rest of society, and that's what we're still going to fight for. However, that proposal has been put to the vote, including: by the representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen and his party Right, together with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party and a majority on the Stortinget, who want the underregulation. That's why the Progress Party, together with the Socialist Left Party and the Pensioners League, is trying to create a compromise, and we have now actually won by making sure that the time when the country's pensioners get their pension subordinated by 0.75 is over, and that the time when the country's pensioners get purchasing power is probably over as well. And then I believe that the Council of State should also recognise the work, that we are today getting a significant boost for the country's pensioners. What surprises me is about the Council of State, and I hope he can respond to that, but it still seems right that we have pensioners in Norway who live well below the poverty line.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e973	The representative, Wiborg, is in the working and social committee, so he certainly knows that we do not have a poverty line in this way in Norway. But it is absolutely right that some of the minimum pensions are below what is the EU60. I don't have time in a minute to go into the details of what it is. It is also the case that there is a striking difference in perspective between the representative Wiborg and myself, because it is absolutely right that the Progress Party is in favour of an increase in the minimum pensions now. Much of that was done when – and now I came up with it – I was in government. You put in government for long periods of time and increased, among other things. the minimum lump sum pension. The minimum pensions of the future, on the other hand – now they are called something else – are not as concerned. That's what I'm concerned about. I am concerned that those who are young today, my children, their grandchildren and their children again, should also have a sustainable pension scheme and that they should not get an unreasonable burden compared to us today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e980	It is a unanimous committee that says that with effect from 2022, an ongoing pension should be regulated with the average of price and wage growth – no reservations. This means that there will be underregulation for pensioners when there is a wage increase greater than the price increase, and there will be overregulation for pensioners when the wage increase is less than the price increase. So the state council said that what one of these is doing is underregulating in a different way. No, here underregulates when there's a real wage increase and overregulates when there's a real wage decrease. That is the proposal. Is it such that the Council of State supports my understanding of this – for this is an exact decision that has no reservations and that the pensioners are engaged in – that if one underregulates upwards, then one has to overregulate downwards, in order to get a symmetry and a logic throughout the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e987	I fully agree with Mr Lundtigen's description of this proposal, and it is also, as I have stressed, in line with the pension agreement. This is not just in line with – this is probably the exact wording of the pension agreement. So 0.75 came in as a kind of a practical solution, because there were some practical issues around it just having a regulation that was the average of price and salary growth. My point, which is also correct, while the representative Lundtigen's point is quite correct, is that savings over time are really the same in the two models. This means that the underregulation is there, compared to, for example, the underregulation. some pensioners' organisations and parties in Stortinget want pensions to be regulated by wage increases, such as: the minimum pensions are regulated today. So in this way, the principle of pension reform is maintained that current regulation, i.e. current pensioners, also contributes a little to a sustainable pension system.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e992	The majority with the government party today adopted a kind of negotiating arrangement. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit regulatory proposals to enable organisations to negotiate other issues relevant to pensioners in connection with the annual social security schemes’. What is the difference between this and today's practice? Isn't this quite similar to the fact that it ends with the fact that some of the different parties don't sign the document and that it ends with visas?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1002	I must first say that I must have some time – and we must have some time – to really go through what the Storing has decided. That means that all the details of how we're going to solve what's ordering from Stortinget, they I don't have right now on my feet. But we have two things to manoeuvre after. One is that the majority on the Stortinget have said that they do not want a debate as such, among other things. because, as the representative Lundtigen pointed out earlier, what is the pension rights of people, that is your rights, and it is not to be negotiated away as a salary settlement or something like that. At the same time, it has been said that there is also a desire for other things that are not related to the pension — for the regulation of it will roll and go, there is no surplus there that can be negotiated that does not belong to people's earned pension rights — to be brought into the pension scheme in an appropriate way. We have to get some time to figure out how to do it, but I think it's quite natural that, for example. pension organisations may bring matters outside the pension system that are important for their members.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1007	A central part of the pension reform is the redistribution, i.e. from those who can be in a job for a short time, to those who can be in a job until they may be over 70 years old. This is because life expectancy is increasing, so there's a lifestyle adjustment here, but then it's like people don't live the same long, not on average. We know, for example. that while a female dentist has increased his or her life span by 2.4 years, a female cleaner has reduced his or her life expectancy by 0.2 years. It means, in practice, that the low-wage workers, with lower life expectancy, subsidise gold pensions for the long-term academics, who are potentially getting more in retirement than they had in wages. The question is whether the State Council sees this side of the pension reform as being deeply unfair and unsustainable, neither in the short term nor in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1012	Now the representative is asking me to answer to the entire composition of the pension reform, but I can say something about why. Let me start by saying that a reason to bring down a pension commission is not to rock the foundations of the pension reform, but to see if there is a need for greater adjustments over time, and also to see if there are things that need to be changed because the unfairness can become too great. Let me take one example, as the representative mentioned in his statement. As of today, I believe it is not unreasonable not to have a special shielding of those who are injured. But in the future, when the consequences of the lifestyle adjustment go up, the gap can be so big that it's also reasonable to do something about it. That's one example. The pension system we have today is more familiar to me for women in general than the previous system, for example. Because you earn every year, and so it is also in many ways better for a lot of low pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1021	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1028	I have three important points today. Firstly, the Labour Party is pleased that there is now a majority for what we voted on in 2017, namely that pensions should be regulated in a more fair way, and that pensioners should not go in the negative when employees go in the positive. The party of progress in the government did not lift a finger for this for nearly seven years. They have now turned around, and both the Progress Party and the SV now join in a regulation that is entirely in line with the main principle of pension reform. It's a breakthrough. Secondly, when it is now open for a pension to be paid from the first crown, a proposal from the Workers' Party and the SV promoted several years ago, and as the government parties and the supporting party have voted down again and again, this is also a breakthrough. It is also a clear expression that now is the common people’s tour – the walk of the cleaners, the walk of the balances, the tour of the shopkeepers. We're going to get rid of an injustice that reinforces the differences between the poor and the rich in retirement life. It has been under pressure from the trade union movement and the Workers' Party for too long. Then it must be said that it comes with a bismach, because it is not to be introduced until 2023, and then gradually over a three-year period and not from 1 January 2022, as the Workers' Party proposes together with the Centre Party and the SV. There's a pattern here. The owners of the capital receive tax cuts and emergency aid without any requirement to avoid redundancies and dividends, and they receive them immediately. Workers have to wait. Those who serve at least and have the lowest employment rate have to wait. Those who have already missed pension savings every year because the right-hand side has voted down the proposal for a pension from the first penny must wait. So my third point: After this round and pending the Commission that works, I am pleased that the broad majority is calling about the main pillars of the pension reform. As the representative Lise Christoffersen pointed out, predictability is important for a fair pension system. We're going to hang out about a pension scheme that guarantees pensioners today. Solidarity means that all generations contribute. With our pension system, we can also see future generations in our eyes and say that they are also guaranteed a fair pension. Not every country can, but with our retirement plan, with the way it's arranged, we can. The Workers' Party is committed to ringing around these principles while we adjust along the way where distortions occur, where we see injustices – as an increase in the minimum level of social security, ensuring the possibility of leaving at 62 years of age, an AFP that is there for the workers, and continuing to provide partial protection against lifestyle adjustment for the former disabled pensioners. This will be important for the Workers' Party in the work on retirement in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1042	One of the important things about the matter we are dealing with today is that at least we temporarily correct differences in maps and terrain. Once upon a time, when the broad majority of the Grand Duchy, of which the Progress Party was not a part, adopted the pension reform, a regulation mechanism was adopted which has not been followed in practice and which has had the very large impact of many pensioners over many years, namely that they have lost purchasing power quite systematically — for many years. It is clear that it has created challenges for many, and it has been perceived as very unreasonable. Therefore, the Progress Party is very pleased that we have now temporarily introduced a change to this regulatory mechanism, until we receive the proposals for treatment in the next enlargement period from the sample that is now looking at the pension reform. All in all, I believe that this is a good, temporary breakthrough. But is this the lead position of the Progress Party? No, it's not. The party of progress wants to go much further, as has been confirmed by the Council of State. I have also heard an undertone from perhaps the Workers' Party in the debate that it has been the Progress Party that has stopped the opportunities to seize the pensioners in the time we were in government. It's a positive error. It is true that one of the pillars that was the premise of the Right when we negotiated the government platform was that the pension reform should be firm. But the Progress Party found many other ways in which to take action to lift the pensioners, both because we have increased the minimum pension for single minimum pensioners for many rounds, by getting a strong improvement in the pension for married and cohabiting pensioners by getting us to a further move on the curtailment, and by taking action in the tax system. We used all the tools we had with the constraint that the pension reform should remain firm, to strengthen the financial situation of pensioners over those years. I am very pleased that, through today's treatment, we are creating a broad majority for a temporary change that creates more predictability for the country's pensioners. But is it as far as we want to go? No, it's not. I also want to say, in conclusion, yes, we are now waiting for the pension committee to arrive at. Many years ago, SV and the Progress Party took the abnormal step of making a draft of a kindergarten reform. It stood for many years and contributed to a strong improvement in the childcare provision for the country’s families with children. We're gonna be proud of that. Now we did many, many years after the corresponding unusual step to do it on the pension. So this leads to at least a temporary change that creates predictability for the pensioners, and I would like to thank SV for that cooperation and I am proud of the result that comes to the hall today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1057	Today, the Storting makes decisions that will give us a little fairer pension system, and it is high time. There are many older people who have had a strong meeting with Differs-Norway in recent years through a series of poor social security settlements, most of which have gone down on older people with low pensions. Too many older people still live on a minimum pension long, far below the poverty line. At the top of this, pensioners have experienced a loss of influence after the pension reform on how their own situation should develop. We have seen over several years that several parties have seen that it has gone wrong and that the changes in the pension system have turned out unfairly, but it has not been possible to get the majority of the Stortinge to do anything about it. There has been a situation that has been locked down. Therefore, SV, the Advance Party and the Pensionist Association took the unusual step of making a joint proposal. It is not often SV and the Progress Party do, but it has succeeded because we have managed to break the locked situation. There was also an outstretched hand to the rest of the Storting to manage to form a majority to create change. I would also like to thank you for that cooperation. We get a little bit more fairer pension system because we get a little more fair way of regulating pensions, which will make sure that pensioners don't lose purchasing power, as they have done in recent years. We get a compensation for what the pensioners lost in the poor social security settlement last year. We're getting a permanent increase in minimum pensions instead of a temporary one, as was possible. And we get a better treatment in the Storting of Social Security. In addition, there is now an impact on the SV, together with the Arbeiderparteift, which has worked too long, namely a pension from the first crown, even if we would like it to be put in place earlier. I also hope that the result of this will be an annual and long-term escalation of the minimum pension, because we cannot accept poverty in our society, either among children or older. The way to get rid of it is to step up the minimum pension. I am disappointed that there is not a majority here today who will be on a stepping-up plan strong enough to achieve that goal. We will continue to work to get the majority involved in the coming years, at the pace needed to make poverty among the elderly history in Norway. Does this mean, as it has been suggested, that SV now joins the entire pension scheme? No, that means we get temporary improvements. Then we will continue our fight for a fairer pension system, because we need to do something about Difference Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1074	Retirement is a demanding question. It's about ensuring a social profile, legitimacy and justice, but also sustainability. I am pleased that we have a majority here today for a number of proposals, including: regulating current pensions with average price and salary growth. The Labour Party has been promoting this proposal for many years. The representative, Siv Jensen, stood here a short time ago and said she was proud to get a pass here today. The representative could have been proud a long time ago, the Progress Party had voted in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal. We have repeatedly been voted down, including with the votes of the Progress Party. Now the majority are different, but I think it is important to point out that this change is in line with the pension reform. In the proposal for a representative we are discussing here today, the Progress Party and the SV are promoting proposals for a plan to increase the annual rate of minimum pensions up to the EU60. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has estimated that the annual additional expenditure by 2050 will be 47 billion. kr. This is if the increase is applied in a new age pension. I think most of us have sympathy with increased minimum pensions. The working party is united with the Advance Party and SV behind the proposal to ensure a permanent increase in the minimum single pension. However, when the Labour Party today does not support the proposal for a stepping up plan against the EU60, there are thorough assessments behind it. The proposal has several ring-effects. One of them is that an increase in the minimum level will result in fewer people meeting the requirement to withdraw an old age pension before reaching the age of 67. The minimum level of social security must be seen in a wider context and be part of the evaluations of the pension committee. A wise woman once said that everything is related to everything, and that is very much about pension issues. By 2060 I am 70 years old, and by 2087 my daughter is 70 years old. What we manage here and now is not just about today's pensioners. Their voice is important and must be heard. We have to be able to have two thoughts in our head at once. It is the red line of the pension reform: sustainability and the generation contract. Substantial, expensive and complex changes with major ring-effects are unfortunately not appropriate for requests. That's why we're dependent on finding the right solutions together, and the government, regardless of who's in charge, is inviting the Storting in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1091	The working party is committed to having a fair pension system, both for pensioners today and for those who are young today and will bear the costs of our pension systems in the future. The announcement of the perspective that came on Friday is a clear reminder that it is the young people today who are going to have a significant financial responsibility to finance the pension as we grow older and fewer young people. The pension reform was a contribution to our young and our grandchildren not being given too much financial responsibility. The reform of pensions was a major reform and has therefore been fully evaluated since it came. Now a sample will review and see if there are aspects of the reform that need to be changed. It supports the Workers' Party. But we have seen today and in the work on the matter we now have to deal with, that the pension is demanding. The proposal to increase pensions up to EU60 levels is a good example of this. We've heard today that there would be a lot fewer people who could get rid of an old-age pension when they were 62 years old, because they haven't had an income equal to 750,000 kroner in 40 years. It's the few people who have had. An entry-level condition that is so high will mean that cleaners, shopkeepers and industrial workers will not be able to leave when they are 62 years old. If you're so lucky to have been in an AFP business, you can go off at 62 if the average salary has been about 500,000 kroner. That's what the few of the people who work in this business have. That is unreasonable, and that is why the Workers' Party cannot vote today for the proposals that were originally put forward, because they have consequences that need to be investigated. We think it's worth working. If the minimum pension is increased as in the proposal, almost none will receive more than the minimum pension. That a long professional life should not mean a difference in what you get paid, compared to someone who has not been in work, I think the few think is fair. These are also examples of the need to investigate changes in the pension scheme. That is why we believe that this needs to be reviewed, and that is why we have supported a sample. What we can't support, on the other hand, is that pension from the first heads is now deferred, initially to 2023, but it has to take three years before this is introduced. Three years is a long time. Many will lose profit. One of the fairest demands we could support would be to introduce a pension from the first penny now and not in four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1104	A few years ago, the SV and the Progress Party took an initiative in a wide-ranging childcare settlement. There we gathered a broad majority to ensure full child care coverage and good services for the country's families with young children. Now the Progress Party has taken the initiative to renegotiate, this time to secure the country's older people. This time, too, the Progress Party succeeds. As a mountainer, you rarely allow an opportunity to boast of other mountainers to go away, so I'll do that today when I boast of the Audun Lighthouse and Jan Davidsen and thank you for the cooperation we've had in this matter. The proposals for which it is now a majority will ensure that the country's pensioners can enjoy the improved economy in the future. The underregulation The Progress Party has been fighting for ten years since the introduction of the pension reform is now being removed. It's a victory. We also ensure a further boost for the minimum pensioners in the future: pensions from the first crown and more influence for pensioners' own organisations on issues that concern them. The fight for pensioners has been one of our most important issues for many years. Unfortunately, it's not over yet. Still, there is deep injustice for some pensioners out there in our country. This applies, inter alia, to: the curtailment to which married and cohabiting persons are exposed, but also the minimum pensioners of the day. In the proposals we are debating today, the Progress Party and the SV's proposal to commit the Storting to an escalation plan for the minimum pensioners until they are guaranteed an income they can actually live on. Today, we have many, especially lone minimum pensioners, living below the poverty line. I don't think that's worth it. It is therefore incomprehensible to me that the majority in this Chamber rejects our proposal to lift these precisely out of poverty. The progress party for the pensioners is therefore with today's victories in no way over, but I am glad that it is now corrected in any of the injustices that have affected the pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1121	I feel at the end of the debate the need for some clarification. To Erlend Wiborg, the Progress Party: It is difficult to understand what the proposal on the EU60 is really about. Is it both old and new, or is it just old? If the last one is right, as I think I've seen before, that means that the 1953 vintage is the last one with old people's fear. The 1954 vintage is 67 this year, the 1963 vintage is 67 in 2030. Does it mean that the proposal on the EU60 for minimum pensioners is only intended to be a short-term affair which starts already this year on a gradual reduction to zero in just eight years for new pensioners at the minimum level, or is it also a guarantee pension for new people's rights? It would have been okay to clarify. I don't know if I'm going to laugh or laugh when I listen to Siv Jensen, who says that pensioners have lost purchasing power for many years. Yes, on the guard of the Progress Party and with the State Council of the Advance Party, who promised to rectify it from 2015 onwards, but who never did anything about it. And then Siv Jensen comes to the pulpit here and says it's Right to Blame! Siv Jensen goes on to say that the Progress Party found «other ways in». "In many rounds" we have increased the minimum pension," said Siv Jensen. No, there was not one suggestion to increase the minimum pension from the government as long as the Progress Party was sitting there. It was the Stortinget that fixed it, so it's directly untrue. Then it was arranged for married and cohabiting pensioners. Yes, the Progress Party took the initiative. The working party chose to give its sole priority. Those who live alone have it harder economically than those who live together, and we stand for that choice. Siv Jensen also said that the Progress Party had used the tax system to correct pensioners. There we have figures that are contained in official large-scale documents from Siv Jensen himself that show that tax cuts to pensioners went to the pensioners who have a lot. There were not many heads, and down to zero for those who have little. Finally, to the debate: Mr Wiborg said from the Chair, or gave the impression that there are proposals here today, no. 3, to introduce the right to negotiate. But it's not. A pot shall be defined and only some of those participating in the social security scheme shall be informed of its use, but the legislation shall be complied with. The Labour Party has a better proposal, No. 5, on the regulation of other matters, that other issues can be discussed, open table without restrictions, plus budgetary implications immediately into the RNB.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1138	The progress party has always been the Pensioners' party, not just because we're concerned with the care of the elderly and want to improve it, but because we're willing to take the fight for better pensions where the other parties are silent. The progress party opposed the 2011 pension agreement, which gave underregulation – a system that automatically reduces pensioners and is using cheese ratios for people's pensions. It intersects a small layer every year, resulting in a smaller and smaller pension year by year in reality. Nevertheless, the majority in this room have thought that it has been a good model. But it's not just where the state has used cheese ratios on the pension. Married and cohabiting pensioners get curtailed because they are married or cohabiting. There, the Progress Party reduced the abbreviation from 15 pst. to 10 pst. The working party called it, when it was done, too expensive and stupid and said: ‘But reducing the curtailment of the pension for married and cohabitants is one of the best examples of policies that make Norway worse, not better, rusted for the future.’ In addition, we have negotiated increased pensions almost every year in the state budget — in 2016, in 2017, in 2019, in 2020 and in 2021. Not enough with that, in addition, we have what we get through for today, which is both the top of the cranium sac and the raisin in the sausage at the same time. Current old-age pensions will now be regulated by average wage and price increases, and single minimum pensioners will have an additional increase in the pension. Older pensioners have lost purchasing power over several years as a result of the pension reform. Finally, the Progress Party is winning by stopping underregulation and ensuring the purchasing power of pensioners. I had hoped that the Labour Party would be a little more humble, even though it is election year. While the Workers' Party is failing the pensioners, it is the Advance Party that takes responsibility and speaks the case of the pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1152	The decisions taken by the Stortinget today are nothing less than a historic turning point for Norwegian pensioners. This is a change in thinking, where you go from thinking about how to save on pensions for those who have stood on and worked through a long professional life, to how to safeguard their purchasing power and raise them. With Jens Stoltenberg, the Labour Party and the Right in the head ten years ago, the other parties went together to tighten up what people have to live off after they stopped working. Underregulation also ensured that pensioners will depend on the rest of the population in the coming years. The party of progress has been fighting for ten years to correct this injustice, which we believe should not have been inflicted on the country's pensioners. Today is an example of how it helps to stand on, not give up and fight for what you think is right, even if you face resistance. I'm going to admit that I didn't dare hope that what gets a majority today would get a majority, but I'm very happy that we're here today. I would also like to thank both the SV and the Pensioners' Association in particular for the initiative they took with the Advancement Party, and for the fact that this has now received a majority. How we treat the weakest in our society, those who have the least, says a lot about us as a society. I am sadly disappointed by some of the things that do not get the majority in here today, especially the fact that the majority say no to raising the minimum pensioners' condition to the poverty line. There is something I wish we could have been together about. When it is not adopted, however, I am pleased with the increase we received in the budget for this year, where the minimum pensioner is paid NOK 4000 extra. I think that with the decisions taken by the majority today, it is a historic moment, and I am very pleased that we are now deciding to reduce the underregulation by 0.75 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1163	The Progress Party and the Socialist Left made a number of proposals before Christmas to improve the economy and influence of the country's pensioners. The proposals were carefully reviewed in cooperation with the Pensioners’ Association, as the country’s largest pensioner’s organisation. Recently, there have been negotiations on how the pensioners' economy should be in the future. There have been tough negotiations, perhaps especially for the parties that adopted them. under-regulation through the pension reform and has had to recognise that it has not given the intended growth of income. Over the past ten years, the Progress Party has been opposed to today’s under-regulatory model, where, year after year, its age pensioners have been deducted 0.75 pst. from the growth of wages and salaries in its regulation. This year, with low economic growth and low wage increases, pensioners have come out very poorly and lost purchasing power. Over the last few years, the Progress Party has been able to counteract some of this, for example. by increasing the minimum pension by a total of NOK 12000 in addition to social security payments in the period 2016 to 2019, by reducing the reduction for married and cohabiting persons from 15 p.m. to 10 pst. and through taxation which has benefited pensioners. In addition, we agreed with the government on a budget settlement for 2021, which added to the single minimum pensioners a new NOK 5000, with effect from 1 July, and a one-off amount for 2020. In the budget agreement, we were given further leverage to remove the sub-regulation of 0.75 p.m. for other pensioners in 2021. This is good, now the pensioners have really got their big win. The Progress Party and SV have taken the majority of further steps to ensure predictable and good income growth for the country's pensioners in the future. Now is the time when the pensioners lose purchasing power in relation to the rest of us and the rest of us get increased purchasing power, over. The country's pensioners will now have their pension regulated by the average wage and price increase. Unfortunately, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the government parties choose to reject our proposal to raise the minimum pensioners above the poverty line. It's incomprehensible to me. However, I am pleased with the other achievements we get, such as that pensioners are now getting more influence through more frequent dialogue with the government, and by reporting. Section 4 for 2020–2021, on pensioners’ income development, will be addressed in the spring session. That's what the pensioners say. Thank you to SV, thank you to the Pensioners' Association, and thank you to the parties that are now making this possible. I have to get back to the representatives of the Workers' Party. It is particularly important to hear that they complain that you are not doing things for the pensioners. So it was the Workers' Party that was at the head of the pension reform that came. It was the Workers' Party that wanted married and cohabiting pensioners to reduce purchasing power by shortening them. It was with the Workers' Party in mind that together with the other parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, voted in favour of underregulation of pensions. So you don't want to be involved in making sure that the pensioners cross the poverty line either. It surprises me – or it may not. It is known that the Workers' Party is not the Pensioners' Party, neither is the Centre's Party. It is the Progress Party, and that is why we fight for it every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1180	There has been a lot of substantiation in this room today. Several of those who are skeptical about several of the things the Progress Party along with SV suggests, indicate that we need new investigations, that we can't take it now. As I said, 10 years have passed since the pension reform, but still several of the parties are not prepared to make the necessary adjustments. The representative Bjørnebeck-Waaagen began to push the youth of the day in front of him. But if we are going to ask today's youth if they want their grandparents to live below the poverty line, or if they are going to live above the poverty line, I am reasonably sure that the youth we have in Norway is aware that their grandparents really deserve better. It is not just the Progress Party that wants this. Even the AUF has considered this to be unreasonable, and considered that the pension reform, which was the performance reform of the red-green government, and on which the Right only jumped straight with the Center Party and the other parties, is unreasonable as it is today. The AUF has itself made provision for adjustments to it. When the Advance Party put in government, the minimum pension was actually increased through several rounds. I would assume that the representative Lise Christoffersen knows very well that it is the Stortinge that adopts budget, it is not the government itself that does. After all, the Progress Party has been taxed for the country's pensioners. Now, the Workers' Party has a rather unclear tax arrangement, where no one really knows exactly how it ends. But the consequences of the tax arrangements for the country's pensioners, for the current parliamentary term, were calculated, and if the tax regime were adopted, 210,000 pensioners would be taxed. If the Workers' Party had been determined, the pensioners would still have an underregulation of 0.75. Had the Workers' Party continued, married and cohabiting pensioners would get even greater cut in their pensions, only because they are married or cohabiting. And then there are the two things we don't get through: the Labour Party obviously thinks it's okay that we have pensioners in the world's richest country living far below the poverty line. And the Workers' Party, which at least in the past has called for all parties to come up with their opinions and negotiate, believes that it should apply to all groups in society, but not to the country's pensioners. But luckily, there's an alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1191	The representative Lise Christoffersen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1197	I'd like to start with the proposals from Red. The Labour Party may support proposal No. 12th@item: inlistbox We basically believe that it follows from the mandate of the Pensions Committee, but fine, we can support it. We do not support proposal No. 11, because this was part of the bad reform, and a profit even at the age of 66 would result in a lower coverage rate of 64 pst. insteadfor 66 pst. Finally, has the party of progress always been the party of pensioners? No, not always, not when the Progress Party has been in government and has really had the power to do something about it. So Erlend Wiborg says that it's the Stortinget that adopts the budget. Yes, but it is the government that makes proposals, and the Progress Party never suggested increasing minimum pensions as long as they were in government. Then the Progress Party is against the pension reform. Yes, we have heard that, but what we miss to hear is how much the social security fee and the employer's tax and other taxes should be paid if we were to continue in the same way as before. That's not what the Progress Party has to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1206	There are, in particular, two things left after today's debate. One is that we get a fairer regulation of pensions. It could have been introduced many years ago. It was an important election vow for the Workers' Party at the 2017 Grand Prix. The right side has argued against each intersection, but now it is introduced, and it is the Workers' Party pleased. The second is that the pension from the first heads is actually deferred. It could have been introduced this year, it promoted the Workers' Party's proposal, but the right side has decided that the issue should be pushed out on time. It is entirely non-binding for the government parties to vote in favour of a proposal which is not to be introduced until the next majority period. The argument for postponing it is very hollow when it is said that employers need time, when at the same time they say that this should be compensated by the state. So until the change of line between the undersigned and Lundtägen, which confirmed that the intention of the Central Party with the proposal for the Pensioners' Association to participate in the Technical Calculation Committee, is only to provide the Pensioners' Association with information on the calculations used, for everything else, the framework has been adopted in the Stortinget, the framework has to be fixed. I do not know whether it is the same definition on the basis of which the Progress Party and SV have promoted that proposal. Then they can come up here and either confirm or cancel. But if it's true that it's the same intention that's at stake, this is just a skin proposal. Then it doesn't matter at all. The calculations are open-ended. They are presented by the government.no. So it won't matter at all. So it's like this, as the Progress Party itself has confirmed in several articles here, that the pensioners have lost their purchasing power while the Progress Party has been in government. They obviously lived very well with that, because there was never a proposal to change the regulation of the Progress Party in government. So Siv Jensen claims that many other ways were found to be more just for the pensioners. They are talking about the minimum pensioners, but there was never any suggestion made by Minister of Finance Siv Jensen for the country's minimum pensioners. They talked about the tax system. The differences also increased among pensioners as a result of the pension system of the right-hand side. Not to talk about the charging system – there were fees increases of between 6 and 8 billion. with Minister of Finance Siv Jensen, who particularly hit them with the smallest pensions. But the Progress Party has obviously contributed more to retirement after they left the government. They thus confirm that they are an eternal opposition party, because they gain power, they forget the pensioners again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1217	What I think is alarming in this room today is that no one from the Progress Party has reflected on what has been taken up here, among other things. in some of the row changes. Because if you're going to leave when you're 62, you're going to have to make 750,000 kroner on average over the last 40 years. It is not a policy that will serve the workers, and what makes me extra worried is that the representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, is standing on the platform and saying that the proposal presented here today is carefully reviewed. Yes, you have to know that those who are struggling, those who have not earned as much as 750,000 kroner on average in the last 40 years, are affected by this proposal. They can't leave when they're 62. Why has the Progress Party stopped being occupied by those who are the proper laborers, those who have been in heavy occupations, those who have been cleaners, those who have been shopkeepers, those who have been weights, those who have been industrial workers? We have not heard a single representative from the Progress Party comment in this Chamber today. I think that is quite remarkable when you see that introducing a pension from the first crown is something that is going to happen in 2023, but use three years after 2023 to make the same people, those who work in the low pay professions, get a larger paycheck on their pension. Then there's someone who's failing, it's those who can't get off early anymore. The Progress Party should have an answer to this when they have delivered a carefully elaborated proposal. Then this is one of the consequences that is quite dramatic, and that is not addressed by anyone from the Progress Party here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1224	When Grandma passed away last fall, it was after a long life as a woman in low-paid jobs such as a maid, a maid, and a waitress. She lived carefully on her own income and had virtually no sick leave in her working years. She left her pension when she got a tumor in her shoulder at the age of 62, which was completely incompatible with continuing to carry heavy trays of beer on the Scotsman here in Oslo. When she was divorced at the judgment in the 1950s, she had to send her only daughter away to let her grow up with her grandparents in North Norway, while she continued to work here in Oslo. While she, who belonged to this generation that so-called built the country after the war, worked all her life in low-paid jobs and had a personal cost related to this, was satisfied and able to save from her pension – which was then on the net sum of around DKK 19200 when she left – the lone minimum pensioners with a low connection to work and a median wealth of NOK 200,000 in the account paid NOK 16 000. It makes me reflect that the victims my grandmother did by working all her life, by sending her daughter away as a three-year-old, so it was worth 3,000 kroner in difference. She had otherwise been in the labour market for 20 years when popular fear was adopted, and she also lived 30 years longer than her life expectancy when she was born, and of course we are grateful for that. She obviously got far more out of the system than she had paid in. That's how the distribution in Norway is, and I think that's fair. With underregulation and loss of purchasing power, however, the community gave up with home help, nursing homes and life-long treatment. So the difference between the victims she made and being able to work is significant. That's why I might know a little bit about it when someone in the hall today says that they're the retired party, that they're the ones who put up for pensioners. Then I think, what pensioners? And with what sacrifices? Shouldn't there be any difference? Of course, I won her generation every penny, and I also believe that we will also receive income from the services provided. Speaking of building the country: I remember that those who retire today at the age of 65 went to work in 1976, eight years after Einar Gerhardsen left active politics and we found oil. So I hope that one day we can have a slightly more balanced debate about pensioners and pensions in Norway. I also want to remind you that despite the fact that we are behind several of the proposals today, it was the government that one year ago set up a pension commission to look at the results of the pension agreement and to provide sustainable, decent pensions for the future as well. It is the Storting that draws its legs in this debate, not the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1237	It is absolutely vital that people who have had physical and psychological hard work can get rid of the AFP when they are 62 years old. It is an incredibly important principle and an important arrangement. When that is said, and when the word «wear» is used so much here, I must also add that I do not see it as natural that those who lose AFP continue in another, full job. Then one doesn't come under what I want to call the wearers. Then one is in a different situation; then one is not such that one cannot participate in the labour market further. On the part of the Workers' Party, one is strongly opposed to the Central Party wanting the Pensioners' Association to be part of the TBU. I understand nothing but that those who are in TBU today will protect their territory, and do not want more people to see what is happening. We in the Center Party disagree with that. We believe that the Pensioners' Association, with its large membership to have its pensions regulated – and where both wage growth and price growth are part of it all – should be given insight into how to calculate this, i.e. as full members. I don't understand that there should be any problem for those who are participants there. There will be one more party, but there are many parties that are there, and this is a group that will soon make up one million people, and therefore it's quite natural for us that they get that knowledge. We feel that we are not getting the right to negotiate for the pensioners. The party of progress, the centre party, and the SV go for it. The working party is not included. The Labour Party has its own proposal, which also states that ‘it is possible to negotiate other matters relevant to pensioners’. It is clear that the Workers' Party must also negotiate something, but one must not give the pensioners the right to negotiate. It stands for me as very special. We have defined the negotiations precisely and defined how it should happen, and I am not doing with my best will to understand what the Labour Party means when they come up with their proposal, where the word 'negotiating' is also included, but they are not included in our proposal. The central part is in retirement from the first kroner, and then I expect the representatives of the Workers' Party in this room to end by writing posts that are incorrect in relation to what we have voted for for a long time. We are voting in favour of partial protection against lifestyle adjustment for former disabled pensioners. One explanation of vote: the central party is voting in favour of IX and we are also voting in favour of proposal No. 12, from Red, who also does the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1250	First of all, we also have a explanation of vote: the Progress Party is voting against both the Red proposals. Otherwise, we vote as it says in the vote, and of course we support the minority proposals that we are part of. There are a few things that have been said in the debate that deserve a little comment and clarification. Obviously, the representative of Arild Grande has not followed closely in the last eight years, when he claims that we have not made proposals to change the regulatory regime. It's proven to be wrong. I have taken that story several times, but I get to take it back again, as the representative Grande obviously has not brought it: the regulation regime was introduced by the Workers' Party together with the other parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, ten years ago. The Progress Party voted against, the Labour Party voted in favour. Then there was a change of government, and the Progress Party tried to get hold of the matter. The undersigned himself stood on this interlocutory and made a proposal to abolish the underregulation. The representatives of Grande and the Labour Party voted against. Then we made more attempts. Last time we tried last October, the representative of the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party voted against. I think you should have some honesty in your argument, although it is of course allowed to be wrong, but then you should admit it. There are several people who come with what I'm almost going to call trying to scare that if we now increase the minimum pensions, you can't get off early with retirement. With the proposal contained here, that argument is directly wrong, and that is what the representative Lise Christoffersen and others know. But yes, there are other groups that are struggling financially and having it tough. But the fact that other groups are struggling and having economic difficulties should not prevent us from lifting people living in poverty out of the poverty line. The logic that the Labour Party, the Right and the Center parties here come up with is a logic that doesn't apply in any other areas when we talk about combating poverty. But in the case of the country's pensioners, it's clearly unproblematic to use that kind of argument. For the country's pensioners really deserve better. Those of the country's pensioners who have the weakest economy, they have bills to pay today. They cannot wait three, four, five, six years for the other parties to have further investigations and commissions before doing what I think everyone here should agree with is the decent thing: no pensioners in Norway will live below the poverty line.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1259	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1276	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time. – Michael Tetzschner, the spokesman for the case, is not present. Svein Roald Hansen gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1283	The proposal for a document 8 is, in its form, a mandate for the government to hold back in future negotiations on a new period of EEA funding. I believe that in any position that has approved the negotiated agreement for earlier periods, the approval has been accompanied by a slightly grinned comment on the outcome of the negotiation. I assume that any government is going to such negotiations with it in order to get the best out of them. It is of course the mission of the government by this crossroads as well. It is important to recognise that EEA funds are a contribution to social and economic cohesion in Europe, an addition to the funds and mechanisms of the EU countries themselves. It is not a market access quota. There is no legal obligation related to the contract. That is why I would be interested in what the Progress Party is calling for in its comments, namely to link the contribution to a renegotiation of parts of the agreement itself. It would create a liability that goes beyond what exists today. The centre party's scepticism against both the EEA funds and the EEA Agreement is well known. They cut in the allocation of EEA funds each year in their alternative budgets – far beyond what can be done, because the progress of the projects is delayed. In a reply to a reply from me earlier, the representative, Schlagsvold Vedum, said that he thinks what they are proposing is enough. However, the point is not what each party believes is enough, but what Norway has committed itself to in an agreement concluded by the government and approved by the Stortinget. What the Central Party is really calling for is to break an agreement, a commitment to international law. Does the Central Party believe that Norway should act this way, we who are so dependent on a world where agreements, bilateral and multilateral are respected? We believe Norway should be able to trust. On Sunday we saw in the program «The King and Queen's Trips for Norway» that on a visit to Romania they had visited a project for street children. In spring 2017, the EFTA Committee visited Romania and looked at EEA projects. In one of the projects, children were picked up every day from the gigantic garbage filling just outside Bucuresti. They were showered and drove into school in town. I also believe this matter in essence is one of several attempts to fire under a dissatisfaction with the EEA Agreement, which now has the support of a large majority of the population, also from a majority of the Central Party's own voters. And when the consequences of Britain’s exit from the internal market – for British industry, fisheries and agriculture – emerge, the EEA integration will not be reduced. Let me finally underline what the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party say in a comment in the setting. They ask the government ‘continuously assess whether the payment of EEA funds to EU countries developing in an authoritarian direction is appropriate. A crucial part of this assessment must be whether Norway can play a positive role in maintaining an independent civil society.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1298	Initially, I would like to say that it is an advantage for us who are following the progress of the negotiations here in the Chamber, that we can also see on the app whether the matters are merged, so that we are not led to believe that there is another matter for consideration between the previous one and this one. That is why this article from the President-in-Office now. But no major damage has been done. It's a transparent matter, I've come in as number two, and I also think that the representative Hansen presented in an excellent way what is the majority position. If, for a moment, we dwell on what the proposers want, for I also think that the rapporteur should do so, then the proposers want to reduce the so-called EEA funds, which a large majority in the Grand Duchy seems to be a right and good way to contribute to development in the European Union, and also a way that benefits Norway. Some of the EEA funds are also intended to contribute — perhaps even more important than today — to prepare the new economies that came directly from the planned economy, corruption and the lack of elementary administration and into the Western European market sphere. So building institutions was also so that the new EU countries could take part in the internal market, which Norway too enjoys being part of. So over the years, these funds have been targeted not so much at state-building and institution-building, but also at some of these countries that have shown diplomatic developments in supporting civil society organisations, where Norway is also developing its bilateral relations with the countries concerned. Some will certainly stress that the development of some of these new Member States has not always been so simple and not always in the direction we wanted. However, the EEA funds, which must also be seen in the context of the transfers from the EU countries themselves to the new economies, are now the most effective instrument of governance and influence to keep the new democracies and the new legal states on track. It is called soft power, i.e. to use soft power and channel funds against underlying trends in some countries. It is necessary to have a deeper historical understanding to understand that these funds have also contributed to cohesion, to development and to economic growth throughout the internal market. Norway’s contribution is not alone but part of the European promise for those countries, which also means a lot to us when we are going to export and develop our own economy. Then I want to say that the government will, in any case, when it proposes what amounts will be allocated in each year, align this with our ability and other priorities, so we're not legally bound to each and every penny. Nevertheless, just as in development policy in the Third World, there is a moral obligation to contribute where it makes a difference. That is why we are pleased to note that the position is promoted by a broad majority. I am sure that the government, which does not want to spend money out of prison, will, of course, adapt the annual appropriations to the economic situation in Norway. But this is an obligation we're not going to get away from, and if we were to figure out how to absorb the EEA funds completely, we would probably also be facing political problems that are not easy to figure out. With these words, I would strongly recommend the broad and broad consensus in the Committee that this continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1315	Let me first of all congratulate the Centre Party on promoting another populist proposal that the party must put deep into a drawer if Norway were to be so unfortunate as to get a socialist government for the harvest. Although the proposal is isolated and looks innocent and as something most people would probably be able to join, the proposal has consequences that the party chooses to skip. The Central Party's closest allies believe that Norway should contribute to climate action, renewable energy, academic research, health and working life – not only in Norway but also in Europe. This is referred to as social cohesion and solidarity with the other countries of Europe. They think it is completely independent of repeats, as access to the market, as the representative Svein Roald Hansen expressed it from the pulpit. However, the centre party opposes Norway’s contribution to social cohesion in Europe, but is in favour of Norway spending eight times as much money on aid to countries in Africa and Asia — money that is undoubtedly much less controlled than money transferred to the EU. The Progress Party transfers reluctant money to the EU as a quota – yes, we call it a quota – that gives us access to a market of 450 million people. We also disagree that Norway should finance the protection of manor farms in Hungary and Latvia. The money can certainly be used more rationally, which we also write in our notes. But if the use of these 8 million. Norwegian industry, technology and business have the opportunity to sell their products in Europe, we hold our noses and accept the premises. But the Advance Party does not accept to throw money out of the window without lasting effect. The center party disagrees with this. The lot will scrap the EEA Agreement and replace it with something else, which will give them even greater benefits. According to the Centre Party, we have to pay less in quota, protect several of Norway's products from competition in international markets and export more at the same time. As a matter of fact, the Centre’s comments state that Norway should use the market access negotiations for fish and seafood as a means of reducing the size of EEA funds. This is interesting. So we're going to need more, but we're going to pay less to get better access to the market. It's a contradiction. This is starting to become interesting, because while the Workers' Party wants to strengthen cooperation with the EU, the SV and the Centre want to replace the EEA Agreement with something else – SV because they want better rights for workers, the Centre Party because they want to protect primary industries. The Progress Party believes that Norway transfers too much of its right of self-determination to Brussels. We believe that we must limit our agreement to directives and regulations adopted in a body of which Norway is not a member. That is precisely what the Norwegian people have said no to on two occasions. Regulations are those that do not affect market flow. It's not part of what the Progress Party calls the quota. So to the proposal of the Progress Party in the matter: the Progress Party believes that Norwegian farmers should be given the opportunity to sell far more of their products on the European market. The Progress Party has faith in Norwegian farmers and is convinced that several of their products will be in demand in the EU/EEA market. At the same time, Norwegian consumers will be able to access a wider range of agricultural products in Norway. That, i.e. the use of the market, will be a win-win situation. Furthermore, the Progress Party promotes proposals that Norway should use all negotiations with the EU to improve areas covered by the EEA Agreement that are not functioning, including the restriction of exports of welfare benefits. The Progress Party opposes the export of various Norwegian welfare schemes to the rest of the world. While old-age pensions are an vested right, it is unnatural for other benefits, which are much higher in Norway than in all other EU countries, to be exported. We therefore believe that all such benefits should be adjusted according to the purchasing power of the country in question. The issue has been discussed in the European Commission, but so far Norway has given in. Austria has raised the same problem. Norway should become tougher and make mandatory demands. Finally, I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1344	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1349	The center party is concerned that we spend the tax money in a sober and critical way. When we allocate money to other countries, the contributions must be targeted and legitimate. The Central Party believes that it is a description that is not appropriate to the extent of the EEA funds, which should be aid to 15 Eastern EU countries, and is close to 6 billion. kr on the State budget only for 2021. Therefore, we propose that, when the government is about to enter into new negotiations with the EU for a new period of EEA funding, a clear requirement for the reduction of EEA funds must be made. The Central Party believes that Norway, as a developed and rich country, has a responsibility to assist in the development of democracy and society in countries that have different assumptions than ourselves. The EEA funds shall be Norway’s contribution to reducing social and economic disparities in Europe and they shall pay support to different programmes and projects which have these objectives. Some of the projects will also contribute to increased cooperation between Norway and the beneficiary country. It is in itself an affordable and legitimate purpose, and the Central Party is not opposed to helping countries in the eastern part of the EU, but we are committed to supporting and developing different areas in the world, and it must be a national priority. The centre party believes that the EEA funds scheme has grown completely out of proportion and that there is a high time for a critical review of the size of the contribution and of what this money actually does. We believe that the trend that this money pot just gets bigger and bigger for each period cannot continue. Instead, we believe that the government must enter into new negotiations with a clear starting point for reducing the pot. The funds are divided into two schemes. There is one joint arrangement for EFTA countries where the financial contributions are proportionally distributed between Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. In addition, Norway contributes with its own scheme, which is fully funded by us. It's all about huge sums. The sum of the money is 2.8 billion. EUR for the period 2014-2021, where Norway contributes a total of 98 pst. of this. That is, we're contributing over 2.7 billion. euro. The centre party is critical that we should contribute a separate scheme at the top of the relative share agreed by the EFTA countries in the EEA. Today, Poland is the largest beneficiary country for EEA funds. Between 2014 and 2021, Poland had access to a sum of 809,3 million. EUR in EEA funds. So it's 809.3 million euros, and then you can multiply it by the rate that's right now at approximately. 10, to get the Norwegian amount, which is going to be billions. In comparison, for example: a country like Malawi, $1.5 billion. DKK in aid from 2017 to 2019, i.e. less than Poland. The amount of EEA funds has become enormous. The money is distributed by a bureaucracy we do not have control of, and we believe that there is reason to ask questions about whether this money would be distributed and disposed of in the same way if each project were to be taken up for debate among our elected representatives. For example, we find restoration of different mansions and a number of cultural offers on the list of projects allocated to millions, in countries such as Estonia, Latvia, Poland and Hungary. In 2015, there was also a debate on the EEA funds. Then the Central Party believed that the government spent billions in the EEA for uncritical purposes. Feminisation of a military camp in Hungary, construction of bird cages in Romania and research into the time use of men and women in Poland were some of the examples of projects that had been supported. Norway’s EEA contribution was just under 4 billion. kr. So instead of a critical review and reduction of funds, as the Center Party asked the government to do, the right government has gone the other way and increased the pot to 5.7 billion. in 2020. The Central Party believes — still — that there is good reason to ask questions about the distribution of funds to projects that would have been difficult to defend if they had been brought up for debate in Stortinget. I'd like to bring up our proposal with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1370	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1375	We have noticed that the centre party in the uphill campaign chooses to claw its weapons against the EEA Agreement. Playing on strings is well-known, but the basic tone is that Norway is self-sufficient. Furthermore, they play with an idea that Norwegian exit from the EEA should give us an excellent trade agreement and are inspired by the results achieved in Brexit. It shows how different we look at the matter. Well, in this proposal for a representative, they are content to address Norway's contribution to the EEA, and we are expected to hear in the election campaign that Norway spends money on the EEA, and that the centre party is the only ones who put the brake on it. I do not overlook the fact that there will be many people's homes out there, and it will be a good thing for us others to explain that the Central Party is actually going on a kind of political drive in an unpredictable state that would put Norwegian jobs and market access at risk. We note that the Workers' Party is on a completely different line, but we do not envy the representative’s stuttering role if the election result for the harvest would lead to the Workers’ Party and the Centre being found together in negotiations and day-to-day policy-making. Maybe that's the leading Achilles heel for the so-called red-green option. In its letter to the Committee on 21 December 2020, the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed that the EEA funds cannot be seen separately from Norway’s other relations with the EU and the Member States of the Union. Recent economic and political developments in several European countries show the continuing need to strengthen civil society, the rule of law and social cohesion. I am pleased that a majority in the Committee and in this Chamber share that view of reality. Norway’s fixed-term tariff quotas for fish and seafood to the EU will cease at the same time as the EEA financial instruments, which means that market access and other improvements in the trade regime for fish and seafood will be negotiated in parallel during the next EEA funding period. These two negotiations cannot be seen separately. It is crucial for Norway’s relationship with the EU and for the Norwegian export industry that both negotiations lead to mutual agreement between Norway and the EU. The overall objective of the EEA funds is to contribute to reducing social and economic differences in the EEA territory. In addition, the overall objective is to strengthen bilateral relations between actors in Norway and in the recipient countries. As a member of the EFTA and EEA Parliamentary Committee of the previous period, I attended a tour of Romania and saw what the funds were used for. We saw important projects on the ground: cleaning of oil-polluted soils, energy-saving measures with insulation of barley, crisis centres for women, child and youth measures and labour market measures for women from the Roma population, and not least recycling centres and stores under the auspices of the Salvation Army. So this is what the Center Party is going to do to reduce aid. The aim of the funds is to contribute to strengthening the capacity of the most recent EEA countries to participate fully in the internal market. The EEA funds shall contribute to and support positive developments in the recipient countries and strengthen contact with Norway. The EEA funds are an important part of the basis for our having the EEA Agreement, which provides Norway with the market access we need to a Europe that is our most important market. This proposal is part of a game in which the Central Party will jeopardise the EEA Agreement. Rather, the Christian People's Party would like the agreement to be used to exploit the space available for action to improve both the way Norwegian authorities are taking their lead in the use of funds and the way in which beneficiary countries use them. It is a continuous and important job regardless of who is in the government offices. However, it may be difficult to imagine whether the Centre Party will occupy these offices, which in this way contribute to sawing in the branch where large parts of Norwegian business are located, a basis for the bottom line in many Norwegian municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1396	I would like to refer to the investigation that both Mr Tetzschner and Mr Hansen had in relation to the EEA funds and their functioning. I would also like to stress that the EEA funds are also in favour of Norway. We see in the pandemic management the importance of solidarity, cohesion and agreements with our close cooperation partners in the EU. The representative's proposal refers to so-called financial support to the European Union. What Norway is doing is supporting the 15 poorest countries in Europe for social and economic development. The pandemic also shows us that weaker economies do not have the same conditions for dealing with the crisis as those countries with stronger economies. Social consequences are growing in many countries, reinforcing differences in the development of countries. Many of the 15 countries receiving EEA funds are well aware of this, and the EU has recently adopted a long-term budget with large allocations of Structural Funds to countries receiving EEA funds. It is therefore clear that there will also be new negotiations on EEA funds after the current period. During the current period of EEA funding, there are, in particular, business and innovation programmes, climate, environmental and energy programmes, the justice sector, research and cultural heritage with particular emphasis on minorities and the cultural heritage of Jews, especially in Poland, which have had and have priority. The main programme is climate, environment and energy, but we also see important areas in the justice sector, for example. related to criminal care, police cooperation, judicial cooperation, asylum, migration and violence in close relationships. I notice that the Center Party perceives these means not to be targeted or legitimate. I would say that the 7 000 programmes that were in the previous EEA period were also important to prepare the basis for the cooperation we have today. We have started preparations for new negotiations. Our objective is clear: to ensure the best interests of Norway while developing and strengthening our cooperation with the recipient countries. The formal negotiations will probably not start just before the summer, but we already have some key points that will be important for Norway. One is to strengthen the rule of law in Europe. It is important for individuals from the right point of view, but a well-functioning rule of law is also crucial for the proper functioning of the internal market in the EEA, which is also Norway’s largest export market. The second is to strengthen democracy through continued support for civil society. The third is to create jobs and contribute to economic growth through innovation and business. The fourth is to assist vulnerable groups. We want to continue contributing to better asylum management and safeguarding the rights of the space population. Rome remains the largest marginalised group in Europe. The fifth is to contribute to Europe's green giving and contributing to the climate struggle. The EEA funds now provide an annual CO 2 reduction of more than 1,4 million tonnes or equivalent to the emissions of more than 820000 cars. This list is not exhaustive, but it sets a direction of government thinking. The forthcoming negotiations on new EEA funds between the EU, on the one hand, and Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein, on the other, on the other may become demanding. The government will work to achieve results in line with Norwegian interests. At the same time, what has been discussed by many will be negotiated on access to the market for fish and fish products. It also applies to Iceland. The government will normally keep the Stortinget informed both on the way and of course also on the outcome of the forthcoming negotiations, and the final result will normally be presented to the Stortinget for approval. I think it's worth noting in the discussion we now have, that the parties that think we should cut off the transfers to the poorest countries of Europe, but also the parties that think we should actually cancel the whole EEA Agreement. This will not be in line with Norwegian interests. We've discussed this many times before in this room. But we believe from the government, and obviously supported by a broad majority in the Grand Duchy, that this is an important part of what Norway can do to contribute to development in Europe, to the development of our own continent. We depend on Europe to do well, as Norway is doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1432	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1437	The projects we have in the eastern countries – plus well in Portugal, it is once again, from the outset – also link contacts with Norwegian industry and Norwegian operators, from trade movements to non-governmental organisations and enterprises. This is true in a situation where, after 25 years, the EEA Agreement is in many ways in the process of being included in the EU and EU countries forget-book – that Norway is an integral part of the internal market. Are these projects not helping to make Norway visible in those countries, both Norwegian business and Norway as a partner and part of the EEA Agreement? Is this not an important part of remembering not only our obligations but also our rights in the internal market?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1442	I'll say to the highest degree. A very good example of this is that in the business and innovation programmes of the current programming period at least half of all projects cooperate with a Norwegian company. That is the expectation we have for the entire programme period. We see research cooperation with NTNU as another example. We see that the NVE is in the climate and the environment. There are very good examples of the partnership between Norwegian trade unions, companies and organisations, and that is something that is valuable both ways. I would like to underline that, because it is often produced as if this is only a support from Norway to poorer countries in Europe. But these are real partnerships, where we see that the partnerships are counting out on both sides, including Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1447	I just have to start by correcting – in fact – the Minister for Foreign Affairs after she talked about pandemics and cooperation in Europe. I've said that many times before is a bad example. There is good cooperation, and there is less good cooperation. The first thing that happened during the pandemic was that the borders were closed all over Europe. There has also been no cooperation on the development of vaccines. No, it is the case that countries outside the EU have access to vaccines much faster than, for example, vaccines. Norway. So that's a bad example. There are many good examples, but it's not one of them. In the previous debate, we talked about raising the minimum pension in Norway to the EU level of poverty – 40 pst. from that level. However, in terms of purchasing power adjustments for welfare benefits in Norway that are exported, we have not been given any particular momentum. Then it's less benevolence. I understand that the government has been negotiating with the European Commission to get this done, along with Austria. At least that's what I've been told. Is there any progress in this? Will you get to this gradually?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1454	As the representative of Tybring-Gjedde probably also refers to, I briefed on this at the previous European Committee meeting, at the beginning of February, that we now have the opportunity to intervene before the Court of Justice of the European Union in matters which also affect EEA countries. That's an access we had before, ten years ago, and now we've got it again. The specific issue we have asked to intervene in is the issue of purchasing power adjustment of welfare benefits – in support of Austria. What that will lead to is still too soon to say. I do not now have the timeline for the matter to be dealt with, but we do so within the framework of the EEA Agreement. Our idea is to help convey what is the Norwegian point of view, to which Stortinget has also joined, through the treatment of the big business message that came a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1459	The Minister for Foreign Affairs concluded by saying that the parties behind this proposal also want an alternative to the EEA Agreement. That is right – just as the Right wants to notify Norway into the EU and thus multiple aid to the EU and pay even more than we do now. So that's pretty much the same thing. There have been slightly different opinions in the debate here now on whether there is a link between market access in the EU and the pot for EEA funds. However, if it is to be assumed that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has sent the Committee, that there is a link, and the Right and Government believe that the EEA funds finance market access, it is that the market is decreasing as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the EU. Is it not a natural consequence that the government also reduces the size of EEA funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1466	Here, I think it's important to keep things apart. The large difference between Norway’s relationship with the EU and the United Kingdom’s relationship with the EU after Brexit is that the United Kingdom is completely out of the single market. We're full of that, and that means that we're e.g. can be exported to the EU on equal terms with EU countries. This is also one of the reasons why this is our most important export market. So it is, from the government's point of view – and I feel that I have broad support in the Storting – that these funds that we provide, which the EU also provides, to those countries that are in a difficult economic situation, are an important contribution to the better functioning of Europe as a whole. It's a responsibility Norway agrees to take. This is our continent, and the development of our continent is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1473	The letter also sent to the Committee by the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out that there is still a need for social and economic cohesion in Europe, and that it is waiting for the EU to document that need before starting negotiations. I wonder then, since the size of EEA funds has been increasing and increasing for every period of time such negotiations have taken place, and also for every year now: is this how to understand that the economic and social situation in the EU, and especially in these 15 EU countries, is only getting worse and worse? Or is the other condition that makes us have to increase our contributions as violently as what you do, for example. the phasing out of the schemes, the approval of more and more types of projects, the inclusion of new programme areas? We have now heard an uproar that holds most of it. I was wondering what it is that you really cannot get support through the EEA funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1478	As Emilie Enger Mehl will see from the letter sent, what we are now entering into in negotiations for a new period will be based on the fact that there is an identified need on the part of the EU to continue to support these countries. What has happened through the EU’s long-term budget is a clear strengthening of funds for these countries, precisely because the need is seen to be there. I think that, in the future, we will also see that the needs can grow, on the part of the European Union, in order to support these countries, precisely because of the effects of the pandemic on the economy. But when we go into the negotiations, it's because it's a defined need, and we've seen that in the negotiation rounds that have been before, where the Stortinget adopted the current period by 2016, it's largely also based on the fact that that increase is about inflation. So in total, you're saying it's at the same level, but it's going to be more because of inflation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1483	It is difficult to get a serious discussion about the use of money through EEA funds because the government shows so little willingness for critical review or actually to respond to the challenges we face when, for example, we do. sees concrete projects, that mansions ashore compared to, for example, Some African countries, which are actually quite welldeveloped, have received support for refurbishment — e.g. a mansion in Estonia, a mansion in Latvia, mansions in Hungary. This will be an almost inexhaustible need for global assistance. The government understands that people are asking questions about the use of EEA funds when we see that cultural festivals, refurbishment, restoration of paintings and furniture are prioritised for assistance from EEA funds, for example. a country like Poland receives many times as much assistance from Norway as Malawi does?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1490	First, Norway is one of the few countries that still provide 1 pst. of GDP for aid, even now, in the situation we are in. Then I think the comparison between European countries and African countries was quite little striking. What we are now discussing is how we can support European countries that have a difficult economy and need support. We're doing it through the EEA funds. So I notice that the representative, Mr. Enger Mehl, is calling for a more serious debate. Well, a good start might be to talk about the big lines instead of just caricing projects implemented with EEA funds, because you'll always find projects that aren't good enough or that shouldn't necessarily have been implemented. Instead, maybe you could take a look at the big picture and discuss development and direction. The Center Party shows little interest in that. I think it might have been a better contribution to a serious and good debate on EEA funds than just caricing individual projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1498	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1505	It is little incredible at these times to experience that a large majority of people who seem completely uncritical to want to spend more and more billions on the EU through the EEA Agreement. In the state budget adopted by the Government Parties, with the Support Party of the Advance Party, there is a new record of approx. 5,6 to 5,7 billion. kr in EEA funds. So it's almost four times as much as it was possible to use in 2019. Of course, some of the funds will also go to sensible projects. The central party is also to support some projects in Eastern and Central Europe. But at the same time, when one has such an uncritically strong increase, the danger also increases that a person will get a steady new unwise project, as we have seen in the past, whether it be a bird-box project, people who are in a fight to fight for the Vikings or celebrating the day of the gang. We need to have a critical attitude about how a person spends public money. I record that the representative Tybring-Gjedde from the Progress Party seems to think that we are going to pay billions of dollars every year to have market access to the EU. Then there is reason to ask the representative Tybring-Gjedde: what other countries in the world are accepting the same thing? The EU has just concluded a trade agreement with the United Kingdom where the United Kingdom has full duty-free access to the EU market for the same goods as Norway has. In addition, they also have full duty-free access to the EU market for all processed fish. Nevertheless, the United Kingdom has not committed itself to paying any EEA funds or funds equivalent to EEA funds to the EU. No, it must be an independent national priority. To the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who says that it is important to support Eastern and Central Europe: yes, the Central Party is also involved, but if we had had an independent and free debate in the Norwegian big business, I am quite sure that the Stortinget had not ended up using approximately. 1 billion. kr to Poland annually up against all the other major needs of people who are on the move around the world. We must have an autonomous policy based on Norwegian interests. Now we're going into a new period of EEA funding. Originally, the EEA funds were only to be a temporary scheme in which we paid 200 million. kr per year. Now the amount is up for nearly 6 billion. kr. There is a need to put on the brakes, and it is obvious to see how the bulk of the population is dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1520	There have been rather strange arguments from the Center Party in this room. In particular, I think it was interesting to see that a reason for switching off these funds is that we are not getting the full product, in the sense that the internal market is reduced by the United Kingdom's share. It is therefore true that in other contexts, the internal market is regarded as an abomination that is a burden on Norway, but here it is appropriate to argue that money is not given value because the internal market has become smaller. In other words, we must look at the internal market and the importance for Norwegian export companies in the same way that the majority of them do. So that was pretty interesting. The second thing Norwegian taxpayers notice is that this money, which then goes to our closest neighbours in Europe, is not going home to Norway and improving the welfare state here or being used for tax relief – no, they are going to Malawi. Then we can say that Malawi and other countries that have not developed well the government or the economy are already in the state budget with a special provision of 1 pst. The centre party has had no other opinions, as far as I have judged. This mockery of some projects is in itself the same one that can make a lot of fun of with regard to the Norwegian cultural budgets. Not all exhibitions are entirely in our own taste, but it is precisely in the choice to support cultural activities that they need to be understood in a different context. And then it sounds like the European Union has developed a general system for manors to which we contribute. No, it is precisely in concrete projects, where national klenodies destroyed by the Nazis from 1939 and beyond, that restoring it for a common account in Europe is also a signal of restoration and reconciliation between the participating countries. If you look at this with heads and ears as the only perspective, you really don't understand what European solidarity is. The same applies to vaccines, how the EU developed common policies in an area where such as the Centre Party in Norway and others would not cooperate in a short time. So they prevented nationalism when it came to vaccine, developed this, and left 3 pst. of the vaccines negotiated to the EEA countries. It's an example of what it means to show solidarity and do more than you're legally obliged to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1533	The representative Tetzschner is at least on the government side of the caricature here. To use his own words, he believes that the Centre Party has viewed the internal market as an abomination until today. There is a total misunderstanding of our criticism of the EU and the EEA. We have never said that the internal market is an abomination. What we have said is that we are opposed to the over-management that we get from the European Union because we are in the EEA. We have a completely uncritical import of legal rules that we have no opportunity to oppose. We spend huge sums on the EEA every year. The government parties are asking us to put things in perspective. I would like to send the request in return. When we refer to the country receiving assistance from Norway, for example. Malawi, it's not because this is something we want to put up with each other, it's to put things in perspective. It is because there is reason to question whether it is right that a European, reasonably well-functioning country such as Poland should receive assistance many times as much as a country like Malawi. You can answer that question if you mean, or maybe reflect a little bit around, instead of caricing back. This is just one of the problems of such a huge bureaucracy that has established itself around the EEA Code. You end up talking about what we call the big lines, all the time. You have to see the big lines – that's right, and the Central Party also believes that democracy development, cultural construction, yes. many things, and other assistance we provide with EEA funds, are super good. All these projects are also publicly out there. Anyone can go in and look at what's behind those big words. Then you can see that there are some projects that can be difficult to defend, and we have to be able to discuss that. When I talk about manor farms in Europe, it's not a caricature, it's concrete projects that have been supported by the EEA funds. Anyone in this room can see if they go into the websites where it's public and open. It must be possible to ask questions about the correctness of a scheme that was intended to cost Norway 200 million. kr a year, now in 2021 costs 5.7 billion. kr, without ending in a caricious debate. This is public money. There is money that people in Norway have paid in to the Treasury by working and paying taxes. People care what that money goes to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1544	As the representative Emilie Enger Mehl is well aware, one of the reasons why the payments are extra large this year, is that we are at the end of the period, and that is that the cycle of payments is making higher payments. In addition to the large projects and the large parts of EEA funds, which relate to business, innovation, climate, environment, energy, justice, research cooperation, etc., I thought – precisely because the Centre party was involved in the discussion on individual projects and, more specifically, mansions – to mention just such a concrete example. The restoration of the mansion at Eleja Manor in Latvia is referred to as a luxury project. The fact is that the manor was laid in ruins in 1915 by Russian forces on retreat. It stands as a monument to Europe's troubled past, and that is also why restoring and caring for these cultural memories is so important. It also appears that a Norwegian municipality, Notodden, is a partner in the project. Secondly, in my speech, I was so concerned that we also use funds to preserve and disseminate the cultural heritage and history of minorities. There is an important objective under the EEA funds. Not least for the conservation of Jewish cultural heritage. It is important both to promote cultural understanding and to combat discrimination in Europe. POLIN, which is the museum of the history of Polish Jews, is one very good example of that. The support we provide through the EEA funds goes in particular to the provision of training for young people, which is something we are very often concerned about in Norway about supporting, precisely not forgetting history, to prevent it from repeating itself, and not least to increase understanding. There are many Norwegian partners in the programme. This applies to both the Centers for the Study of Holocaust and Life Vision Minorities, the Wergeland Centre, the Falstad Centre and the Jewish Museums in Oslo and Trondheim. It is not the largest project under the EEA funds, but nevertheless it is a very important project that promotes many of the values we want to continue to live in Europe – understanding and not least looking at history and cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1557	I thought it was interesting to listen to the representative Enger Mehl, also because what she said was that the internal market was good. Then we can start talking. But then this belief comes to you that you get an advantage without giving anything back. This means that once Norway has joined the internal market, it can also be exported to us, at lower tariffs, to the benefit of consumers. At least it's integrated. But the problem in this case and in other cases relating to the EEA is that the Central Party believes that this is a cold table – you can only supply yourself with the dishes you like, and then distance yourself from the rest. But that's not the way the world is. It is also about political cooperation. I would also like to say, when you use the argument that we have to receive some rules made in the EU system, that it is in the areas where it is relevant to the EEA Agreement, where it is just about to have common standards, so that you are not met by a customs barrier that is hidden behind different standards. All the major nations – which are quite self-conscious, if you have ever been in France – have their own rules, except for what is needed to make social relations and trade as frictional as possible. Always in these contexts where we implement EEA law in Norway, it is precisely because it is market-relevant and EEA-relevant. But it's an agreement that the Center Party will cancel, without knowing what you're going to do. Sometimes – as an example of the cold table – you refer to brexit, it's a great deal. Yeah, it's probably going to appreciate the Senter Party, which guarantees zero customs duties on agricultural products both ways. It would have been rough if we had got such an agreement on the table. The centre party wants to lead the country into an uncertain future, jeopardize jobs, cancelling the EEA Agreement without knowing what they're putting in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1564	Of course, it is quite legitimate to believe that EEA funds have become extensive, and they grew seriously when the Eastern European countries came in. The reason we got our own Norwegian system was that it was difficult to get our two slightly smaller partners involved in such an increase as was then negotiated and agreed upon after the EU enlargement. But I react a little when it is used as a non-critical payment of funds. It is not uncritical, it is a negotiated agreement between the government and the EU, and then there are negotiations with each country on projects. It is clear that it is possible to find projects where, as you might say, they are not significant, but the overwhelming majority of those projects are important. I mentioned one in Romania, and Tuskedal and I were together and looked at others that he mentioned, among other things. prisons. I recommend the Center Party to take a study trip to that type of project, because it's not useless. Then you use the expression uncritical import of rules. No, it's not an uncritical import of rules. They've been evaluated. Each and every one is assessed by the government, whether it is EEA-relevant or not. Part of it will be approved here in Stortinget. Of those who have been implemented since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement 25 years ago, there is very few that have been a major debate on. In general, legislation has raised standards in the various fields. Lifting standards not only in Norway but across Europe is an advantage. So Gülsvik says that there are no countries other than the EEA countries and Switzerland that pay funds to contribute to cohesion in Europe. No, but no other country has such a large share of its export market in the internal market. Nor are there any other countries involved in European integration. That's the explanation of those differences. I think that if you look at what's happening in the United Kingdom now, it's an example of what would happen in Norway if we were to go out of the EEA Agreement and into a traditional trade agreement, that is, out of the integrated internal market. It's very interesting to see evolution. There are probably transition problems, and some things can go on, but there are some basic structural problems that they're going to have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1577	The representative, Hansen, felt that I was pointing out that the government parties and their support parties are constantly pouring new billions into EEA funds for the EU. I am sorry that the representative Hansen felt hit, but in that area I would say that the Workers' Party has moved in some positive direction. The representative's party, the Workers' Party, proposed to cut 1.2 billion in its alternative budget. kr in the EEA funds. It was a good piece on the way. It wasn't far enough, but at least one step in the right direction. Then the representative Hansen connects this again with EEA funds and market access. After all, when a person has a trade agreement, or a trade cooperation, it must be based on reciprocity, and that principle is also written in the EEA Agreement, that it must be based on reciprocity. Access to an EU market is not limited to Norway. The EU also has access to a Norwegian market, such as: has resulted in a sharp increase in exports from the EU to Norway of both agricultural products and processed agricultural products, as well as profits in trade in services. So the fact that we have to pay billions of dollars to the EU for an agreement where we accept that it is the EU that formulates the rules, that it is the EU that interprets the rules, and we have to accept the rules that are being set – yes, it is a bad deal for Norway, and it lacks parallel in other agreements in the world. So to the representative, Tetzschner, who says that there are also bad projects in Norway that have been supported. Yes, it does, and then one has to provide an evaluation of them, a review of them. And if one does not have enough reasonable projects to provide support for the following year, then, for example, a reduction in support for the cultural institution should be made if it turns out that the funds are being used in a way that is not reasonable. With the EEA funds, one does the opposite. There have been a number of examples of uncritical use of these funds, and instead of putting the brakes on them, one is helping to increase payments year by year from the government parties and the support party Progress Party. But I am at least happy that the Workers' Party is contributing to and seeing that there is a need to put the brakes on a little. I hope it will also apply to the framework for a new period of EEA funding, and that we will also avoid having our own Norwegian scheme at the top of the joint burden-sharing with our EFTA partners and ensure that we reduce the total payment of funds through the EEA.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1588	Svein Roald Hansen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1593	The difference between the reduction in EEA payments made by the Workers' Party in its alternative budget and that made by the Centre Party is that there are always changes in the need from year to year. The government's estimate was a little over and above what was needed, but what the Center Party is doing is saying that they think what they're adding is enough. There's a significant difference. We have committed ourselves to paying out a framework, and the Labour Party believes that we should stand by it. We believe that the government has been too far-fetched in the negotiations, it is now, but it does not allow us to cut unilaterally in relation to the agreement. So Görlsvik says there's going to be a reciprocity in the deal. Yes, I believe the EEA Agreement is for the mutual benefit of Norway and the other EU countries, so it is not a bad deal at all. The EEA Agreement is a very good trade agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1600	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1618	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1625	In the proposition, the government proposes two changes to the Defence Act. In order to improve the rights of veterans, a right of appeal is now being introduced in actions relating to psychological damage under the Defence Act § 55. Complaint handling is integrated into the work of the existing complaint panel on claims for compensation and cheapness compensation for psychological damage caused by participation in international operations. The purpose of introducing the new remedies is to improve the legal certainty of veterans who have suffered mental damage after 1 January 2010 and to ensure equal treatment of veterans before and after that date. The change in the compensation and compensation scheme is based on the recommendation of an external working group that issued its report in 2020. Here the veterans were represented by their organizations. Norwegian veterans are a resource-intensive group that manages well both during and after the end of service. Most of them are strengthened by participation in international operations. At the same time, unfortunately, we do not want anyone to get permanent damage as a result of the service. It is gratifying that we are today adopting legislative changes to improve the rights of veterans who are being injured in the service of Norway. This bill also includes proposals to amend the Defence Act in order to provide a clearer legal framework for the assistance of defence to various authorities and civil protection actors. The ability of the police to ask for assistance from the Defence Service has improved significantly in recent years by simplifying the aid file. At the same time, it is clear from a number of large-scale documents that public authorities other than the police can also receive assistance from the Defence Agency. Such assistance has therefore also been provided for many years. The government sees a need for closer and more precise regulation of defence assistance to the civil sector. In major and serious incidents, there will be a situation in which several actors want to ask for assistance from the Defence Agency, such as the Police, Civil Protection, the Red Cross and larger companies responsible for critical infrastructure. A more precise regulation of defence assistance to the civil sector, whether public authorities or non-public sector actors, could help to reduce the response time, clarify the priority and ultimately be involved in saving lives. According to the government, the handling of covid-19 has shown that there is a need for a central mechanism for coordinating the prioritisation of civil aid schemes before they are sent to the Defence. The regulation to be drawn up will therefore contain detailed provisions, inter alia. the conditions under which the defence may be assisted, who may request assistance, the level of expenditure and the content of requests for assistance. Furthermore, it will establish clear procedures for the preparation, coordination and prioritisation of requests and the management of assistance operations. It is positive that the government has thus taken into account the experience of the management of the pandemic and asks the Stortinge to make the necessary legislative changes so that efforts can function best, whether it be efforts by the Home Office, border guards, loaning tent and sanitary equipment to the specialist health service or other things. I will end by saying that this is good crisis management in practice, and it is nice to see that a broad majority of the Storting is behind the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1644	It has been important for the Central Party to ensure that the State takes care of veterans in a worthy and good way. There are people who have set up for us, and we have to set up for them. It is important that the veterans do not meet a state apparatus in which responsibility and action are spread across many bodies, so that they remain in the hands of the lua. We have to help people who have experienced difficult things and who have to live with sensitivities. Many have experienced a very serious life situation as a result of the efforts they have made for Norway. The centre party notes that parts of this proposition come in response to Storting's order to the government through Innst. 21 S for 2020-2021. It was a proposal to provide legal compensation for Norwegian veterans with mental damage. The lot of the centre supported the decisions on which the proposition was based and responded. We therefore support the changes in the law that deal with access to justice and the limitation of criminality in matters that deal with mental damage caused by participation in international operations. The centre party is pleased that a total increase is in favour of important legislative changes that will improve the daily lives of veterans with permanent but after service to the country. For many people, this can give new impetus in a tough life and a sense of being taken seriously. The Central Party also supports the amendments to the Defence Act which allow the establishment of a regulation on the assistance of defence to public authorities other than the police and other response actors. The centre party notes that the defence assistance to public authorities other than the police has been largely regulated by law or regulation, but rather regulated in permanent cooperation agreements or agreed in the individual case. The proposed legal regulation will not, in itself, provide any other or more assistance to public authorities other than the police for which it has been possible to date. The centre party will highlight the importance of good interaction between emergency services in Norway today. To clarify where, who and in what cases the defence can assist society, we believe that it is appropriate to strengthen preparedness in Norway. More streamlined processes could be resource-saving and time-saving in demanding situations. Experience from the Korona crisis has updated the need for such a regulation. In view of this, the Centre Party will support the changes to the Defence Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1659	Today, when the Storting adopts changes to the Defence Act to ensure veterans from international operations the legal certainty and access to compensation that they should have had the longest, it is among the Red-performing of the Storting that I am most proud of. When the government now also supports these changes, we give a minimum of back coverage to people who have risked their own lives on behalf of Norway. It's important, not just for the many thousands that Norway has previously sent to war abroad, who have come home and perhaps have memories and experiences that are too demanding to carry alone, it's also important for those who are out now. For this is important to remember: Norway’s participation in foreign wars is not just something that belongs to the past, it is something that is happening here and now more places in the world. Tomorrow is the Minister of Defence meeting in NATO. On Sunday, international news agencies reported that sources inside NATO said that no decision was taken at tomorrow's meeting to withdraw the 10,000 soldiers from Afghanistan. I hope what these sources reported on Sunday is wrong, and that the NATO meeting tomorrow comes to the reverse conclusion – that the Afghanistan war, after going on for 20 years, four times longer than World War II, should come to an end. It's a devastating war that we've been engaged in all along, which has led to 150 000 deaths, many more injuries, and has also left many Norwegian veterans with damaged health. Although the laws we adopt today are a victory, the work has shown the severity and severity of mental damage caused by many soldiers, especially in Afghanistan. When Norway decides on Wednesday to reject the withdrawal agreement and continue the Afghanistan war, it is heavily responsible for the government’s shoulders. Is it worth postponing even more young Norwegian men and women for the suffering we have heard from the veterans who are already injured, or not? This is the serious backcloth because Red has worked so hard for the veterans' rights. There is no doubt: although Red is against the wars, we stand up for the soldiers. When the Stortinget and the government send Norwegian women and men into war, we also have a responsibility to care for those who come back injured from the war. It is this responsibility that has unfortunately failed for so many years. We have seen for several years a decrease in the number of claims granted, and those who are best able to do so – the veterans themselves – have reported that it is due to an unjustified tightening that has not even been officially adopted anywhere. When the Storting today adopts the concrete legislative changes that follow up the Storting's support for Red's proposals in this field, it means that after this, no distinction shall be made between those who traveled out long ago, for example. to Lebanon, and those leaving recently, to Afghanistan or Mali. The size and political Norway say loudly and clearly that we both see and take seriously the late injuries that can occur after the end of service, long after the end of service, and that have ruined people's lives. And we say that the scientific assessments of psychiatry are what should be the basis for assessing claims, they should not be negated. When people are in a situation where they seek compensation from a powerful state, they shall have access to sufficient legal assistance. For those who have had their case rejected in recent years, and where there is a suspicion that the applicable law has been broken, it is now possible to reopen the case. I am therefore very pleased, in sum, that the other parties – a total mass – have joined the Red's proposal, but I am even more pleased that the veterans did not give up: that they gathered, stood up, together with the unions in the Defense, to say clearly that these people who have risked everything and come home harmed, they are to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1674	Let me begin by thanking the Committee for its unanimous support for the proposed amendments. The proposals will strengthen the protection of veterans in the field of civil protection and provide a clear basis for laying down rules on defence assistance to the police and other response actors. The execution of our veterans is important. Norwegian women and men sent out to serve for international peace and security must be able to feel secure that they have a protection against any damage to the service that they may impose on them. The proposed legislative changes will provide personnel who have suffered psychological damage in international operations since 1 January 2010 with the same remedies as those who were injured before that date. It ensures the legal certainty of veterans and contributes to the non-discrimination of all veterans with psychological damage, regardless of their state of injury. We've seen that the rules of the Legacy Act don't always fit just as well for the psychologically damaged situation of veterans. The proposal in the proposal ensures clear and predictable rules of limitation which will facilitate the timely application of compensation by the veterans. The rules shall apply to all veterans regardless of the time of injury. This ensures equal treatment. A minority of the Committee has expressed their views on the application and follow-up of the Administrative Act. I fully agree that veterans must be guaranteed sound guarantees of legal certainty. As we can see from our letter to SIOPS, we would like to state that the rules on individual decisions apply to the cases that are now open to appeal. A hearing note to this effect is now being prepared by the Ministry of Defence and will be sent to the hearing during the spring. It has been established in a number of large-scale documents that the defence can provide assistance to public authorities other than the police. Such assistance has been provided for several years. The need and desire for regulation of such assistance has been known to the Ministry over time. The legislative proposal also includes assistance to other response actors. These may be publicly owned companies or wholly or partly private companies. The requirement is that they must have a defined responsibility for social security, critical social functions or critical infrastructure. It is important that the authorities responsible for Norwegian social security be given the opportunity to ask for assistance. However, there will always be the current situation to be resolved, which will guide the actors receiving assistance. The management of covid-19 has shown that there is a need for a central mechanism for coordination and prioritisation of civil assistance requests before they are sent to the Defence. In the regulation, therefore, it will include, inter alia: be proposed for clear coordination and priority procedures. I want to ensure good participation in regulatory work, so that sectoral considerations are heard. Let me conclude by saying that the proposed changes will lead to improvements in several legal areas. In my view, legislative and regulatory regulations on the assistance of defence to public authorities and other response actors will complement the regulation of the field, create greater predictability and lead to a more consistent practice. The Veterans have been and are an important matter for me. I am therefore pleased that with these amendments we will have even better arrangements for the recognition and observance of our veterans.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1693	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1710	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The first speaker is Frida Melvær, instead of Ingunn Foss, who is the rapporteur on the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1719	A little substitute here today. The bill in Prop. 136 L relating to changes to the Civil Protection Act shall provide the necessary grounds for ongoing regulatory work in the field of civil protection. The aim is to gather most rules into one regulation, with improved systematics, modernized languages and updated content. In addition, there is a need for adaptations to legislation that have come after civil protection laws, such as defence laws, administrative laws and data protection laws. There is also a reason to enter a regulatory residence that opens up in order to be able to make further demands on municipal spaces and land that is made available to civil defence and to provide rules on a distribution of expenditure between municipalities. The Directorate for Social Security and Security shall own and manage a computer system when it is to be collected, synchronised and made available data on undesirable events from insurance companies for use by municipalities and other relevant public bodies in the work they do with social security and preparedness. In order for the knowledge bank to function as intended, it is necessary for the DSB to be able to process relevant information in the computer system. The primary task of civil defence is to protect the civilian population in war, when war threatens, and when the kingdom's independence or security is at risk. Civil protection measures include alerting, evacuation and shelters, and in these areas civil defence is assigned central tasks. In addition, the Civil Defense State is its reinforcement resource in the event of unwanted events in peacetime. In order to carry out these tasks, it is important that the service providers are able to build confidence in the audience they are going to serve. Substantial societal interests indicate that background checks are being carried out on persons assessed for service in the Civil Defense Service. In the tasks of civil protection, they will be able to come into situations where personal data is processed. Therefore, it is important that the legislation complies with current data protection legislation. A civil defence service obligation is a significant intervention. It is therefore important that rights and obligations relating to the selection of personnel are provided by the law. A new rule of law prohibiting those on duty from using alcohol or other intoxicating or anesthetic during service is important in order to maintain the necessary discipline and morality and through the ability to carry out the tasks of civil defence. Over time, there has been an unfortunate practice in which some municipalities cover all the costs of providing space and municipal land for consultation with civil defence, while others do not provide financial support. The civil defence operates across municipal borders, and we believe that the financial costs incurred must be shared between the municipalities. In the case of termination of service, it is suggested that this rule of law be repealed, which we support, as it contains a double regulation which is not necessary in addition to the rule on military custody or other similar general protection services under the work environment law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1742	The amendments to the Civil Protection Act are, to a large extent, improvements and adaptations and bring together existing provisions in one regulation. We consider that to be unproblematic, and the Workers' Party therefore supports the main content of the proposition. Where, like the Socialist Left Party, the Workers' Party does not agree with the Government, the view is that it is right to remove the specified protection against dismissal, i.e. to remove the Civil Protection Act § 7, third paragraph, which states that civil defence officers cannot be terminated from office as a result of being given the civil defence service. We believe this is an important security for employees. The working party does not therefore support the withdrawal of the third paragraph of that paragraph. It is also the case that, with regard to the proposal for clarifications in the law in respect of municipal spaces and land to be made available for civil defence, the Workers' Party strongly supports it and considers it to be a continuation of today's demands and practices. But many municipalities have mentioned to the committee that they fear that with today's economy they will not meet the requirements that may come to increased investment to put areas and spaces in the condition that the Civil Defense wants and the law requires. The Local Government Act states that State requirements and reforms must be fully financed. We believe it is important that this is also done in this case. That principle must also be applied in relation to the necessary upgrading of facilities to be used by the Civil Protection Agency, and we therefore propose it. With that, I address the proposals of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1755	The representative Martin Henriksen has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1760	Civil defence is in many ways one of the important social security resources of the nation that may be too often forgotten. Why do I say that? Well, because the civil defense isn't the ones who call the highest and get the biggest headlines, or are visible in all situations as to their important mission and the important work they actually do. I want to strike a blow for the Civil Defense, and I want us to be aware of what good and great resource it actually represents for countries and people, and I wish that it wasn't just those who shouted the highest, and those who stood by the demands most clearly, who were given the highest priority. That's why the Progress Party has always worked for a strengthened budget for civil protection, and that's what we're going to give priority to in the time to come. We had an impact on it in the budget for 2021, and we also had an impact on it in the revision for 2020. That work is going to continue from the Progress Party. So the civil defence is, as I say, sub-communicated, and that is not least the support they contribute with, for example. to the police in major operations. In crisis and war, civil defence is a very important resource. It must be taken care of, it must be rusted up, it must be strengthened, and it must be given priority in the coming period. This is going to be, I think, part of the job that Stortinget should do when we come to the treatment of the social security message. Then I have to say that it is regrettable that the Workers' Party and the SV are trying to use this proposition – as the Advance Party is fully behind it – to present it as if the civil defence officer should now be terminated. It's, of course, with all due respect to report, just customs, that's not right. It is a legal adjustment that deals with a double legal basis for the care of those who are responsible for civil defence. But by making this proposal, you also – as when I heard the last speaker – help to create the impression that the situation is different. I can promise you one thing, that if it turns out that these claims, which are wrongly made by the Workers' Party and SV, should have any kind of truth content, the Progress Party will be the first to take the initiative to get this home back into the law. So you have a protection under the Working Environment Act, it's clearly justified there, and then you don't have to double this. But you're creating an idea of something else, and I don't think anyone's earned it. I don't think the political parties that are trying to do that are served, and at least I don't think the civil defence is served. And if it turns out, on the assumption, that the Workers' Group has greater legal competence than those in the Ministry of Justice, which I have my doubts about, then the Advance Party will be the first to take the initiative to roll this back. But let's deal with things honestly and fairly, not create sort of conflicts. We have enough of real conflicts to take in this hall, real political challenges, real political issues, and don't have to try to create skin debates on things that aren't the case. You have to take care of the civil defence officers, and that's how it's going to go on. And then we'll have to discuss real issues and not create what someone now calls "false news".
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1775	The Christian People's Party has long been a champion of civil defence. Today it consists of approx. 8 000 women and men, all of whom have expressed their willingness to make an effort for Norway. Civil defence helps us in times of crisis or disaster. With knowledge, care and competence, together with the other emergency situations, they are a good operational support device. The civil defence has also assisted in the management of the pandemic and is a requested resource in emergency situations such as floods and forest fires. Furthermore, the Civil Defense is also preparing for what we hope will never hit our nation again, namely war. However, the fact that some practice these scenarios helps to make us safe if the major disaster occurs. This bill comes as a result of ongoing regulatory work in the field of civil protection. It is also very important that civil defence experience that they have the necessary prerequisites to do a good job. Practicing on different scenarios is a vital part of the work of civil protection. This requires, inter alia: spaces for practice. The proposition aims at clarifying the obligations of each municipality in order to provide civil defence with good practice. The practice today has been different. It is important that each civil defense district feels that they have good space to practice. The proposition is involved in clarifying the obligations of the municipalities in this way, and I would like them to serve to bring civil defence into their areas, institutions and areas. The proposition also aims at bringing together all the provisions of the Civil Protection Regulations into one regulation. The aim is improved systematics, modernized languages and up-to-date content. There are also new provisions concerning the right to select qualified persons, the compulsory provision and the testing of drug use. Although the legislative proposal is of a technical nature and the legislative work is primarily designed to facilitate ongoing regulatory work, this debate is a good opportunity to do what the social security communication has done, namely to highlight the importance of good civil protection and to make the many efforts it makes in Norway visible. I just have to say that as a member of the Civil Defense for many years, in a special group, I got insight into very interesting aspects of society in my region, at that time, which would be of great importance if one were to come into a situation where there is a need for civil protection. We got local knowledge of relationships we hadn't thought about, such as logistical relationships, supply problems, etc., which makes having a civil defence in its region much more important than people are aware of. I am particularly pleased that this comes at the same time that we are now working on a social security message and are looking at the emergency situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1792	The Civil Protection Act regulates inter alia: Responsibilities and responsibilities of civil defence. The main task of civil defence is to protect the civilian population in war and when war threatens. In peacetime, the Civil Defense is a state reinforcement resource in the event of adverse events. In compliance with the Civil Protection Act and the repealed Civil Protection Act of 1953, a number of regulations have been laid down which further regulate the activities of Civil Protection. In addition, there are some provisions and internal guidelines for civil protection. The Ministry has seen the need to review and systematise the rules so that they can be included in a code of civil protection. We have therefore entrusted the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness with the task of developing such a comprehensive regulatory framework. There is a need to develop some of the regulatory homes in the Civil Protection Act and the legislative proposal has been drawn up to meet these needs. The Civil Protection Act entered into force in 2011. In retrospect, changes have been made to the legislation which is also relevant to the provisions of the Civil Protection Act. In this respect, I point out that the Defence Department has modernised its legislation by means of the Defence Act and its regulations. The military service and duty of civil defence have many similarities, and that is why, in the design of the bill, it refers to the regulation of the rights and duties of military personnel. The legislative proposal also provides for adaptation to the general provisions on administrative penalties laid down in the Administrative Act and to the personal data processing requirements of the Data Protection Act. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness is developing a computer system called the Knowledge Bank, which will initially contain information on natural damage caused by insurance companies. The Knowledge Bank shall be made available to municipalities and other relevant departments and shall facilitate the use of damage data in risk and vulnerability analyses and other preventive social security activities. The legislative proposal shall provide the necessary legal basis for the collection and processing of personal data in this system. The civil defence service provides assistance to the municipalities and relies on local assistance to carry out its activities. Municipalities shall, in accordance with today's legislation, inter alia: make spaces available for civil defence in response and for educational and training purposes. In order to ensure that the rooms are suitable for the use of civil protection, there is a need to specify the requirements of the law through regulations. It is proposed to include a basis in the Civil Protection Act for the provision of such provisions. The legislative proposal also opens up in order to provide for the allocation of expenditure between municipalities. The purpose of such provisions will be to achieve a fairer distribution of costs, so that they are not borne by the local authority alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1813	No one's ever asked for a line. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1820	I had not thought that I would draw up a second article on the civil protection issue, which I consider quite free of the major polarising conflicts. But I take the floor because the representative Per-Willy Amundsen had a rather incomprehensible speech, and he used the term 'just customs' about the Labour Party from the pulpit. Since the president didn't club it, I can shoot back and say it was the representative Amundsen's posts that were basically just nonsense. The Workers' Party and SV oppose the removal of a paragraph of the Civil Protection Act that ensures workers against being able to resign from their position as a result of the service imposed in the Civil Protection Tribunal. That is what I said in my post – that we did not agree with the government in that change. There stopped my mention of that change in my post here earlier in the debate. So it makes the representative Amundsen go up to the pulpit and almost rage over what he said as non-voting statements from the Workers' Party. First of all, I wonder which statements it is. The representative also said that we need to be honest and honest in the debate rather than to create skin debates. This was a strange exercise by the representative Amundsen, to be completely honest, and it should be almost unnecessary to say it, in a matter without special polarization or conflict, which I very calmly commented on in my post, and where the Workers' Party has not subdued that this paragraph, or the protection, also exists in the Working Environment Act. We therefore believe, like employee organisations, that there is good reason for this to be protected by both the Civil Protection Act and the Working Environment Act. The unintelligible posts of the representative Amundsen may be a symptom of the parade of the Progress Party, which is just a constant attempt to create skin debates, to use the expression of the representative Amundsen, where there is no particular polarisation or conflict. In this case, it is quite surprising that the Advance Party and Per-Willy Amundsen take the line they are doing. There may be a need to create conflict where it is not. When even the government in its own documents says that it is not a big problem that this protection is provided by both the Working Environment Act and the Civil Protection Act, I wonder why it is so important for the Progress Party to use most of the speaking time in this debate to rage against anyone disagreeing with the removal of that protection. But if the Progress Party and the representative Amundsen want a debate on employee rights, the Labour Party is ready for it every single day, because there is no particularly proud history for the Progress Party, nor in its years of government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1834	The President will recommend that both the representative Henriksen and other representatives consider using different formulations on the political message of others than the word 'customs'.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1839	I fully agree with that, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1844	I understand that some representatives are more excited than others in the debate. It is probably good for circulation and variety, but it does not underlie the fact that it helps to create the impression, through comments and comments, that employment protection – the protection of those serving in civil protection – with this amendment of the law will be gone. It's possible that you don't say it explicitly, but it's very clear from these comments that that's what you insinuate. That's when I say it's okay to be honest in politics. It's okay that we talk about things that are real challenges, not creating skin debates. That is why it is important for me to stress from this interlocutory that employment protection will still exist for those who serve in civil defence. I understand that someone gets very engaged, but then you might have written in the notes that you don't want to insinuate it – because that's what you're contributing to. Uncertainty is created for those who actually serve in civil defence, and try to make cheap political points out of debates that are not real. This may well explain some of the issues that the Workers' Party first raises and that the Workers' Party is facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1849	The representative, Martin Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1854	When the representative Amundsen says that some representatives are getting excited more than others, I just want to say that self-confidence is a good and wise trait to have, and I support the representative Amundsen and all other representatives in exercising it as often as they can.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1859	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1876	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1883	Prop. 143 L for 2019–2020 contains proposals for changes in criminal law, criminal law and conflict resolution laws that are necessary to make changes in the organisation of the criminal justice system from three to two levels, without today’s regions. The proposition contains in addition suggestions for: changes in the tax enforcement law § 14 that sentences can be transferred to another prison in connection with transport out of the country for a short period of time and with a background in practical and logistical terms; an up-to-date residence in the Criminal Enforcement Act § 27 to adapt the rules of the Police Register Act that criminal services for security reasons should be able to obtain information from the police on the background of people who wish to visit a prison inmate permit the use of electronic breathing and motion sensors in prison cells in criminal enforcement law §29a. Such sensors can detect the lack of breathing and movement of a conscious person and help to prevent suicides and overdoses. It is important to stress that sensors should not replace, but complement, human contact. Finally, Section 38 of the Penal Code suggests that criminal services in some cases may use spray protectors on a insert, primarily in the case of movement or manufacture. A more general revision of Section 38 is proposed, which implies that the conditions for the use of the most invasive means of coercion, such as: the safety bed and safety cell remain unchanged, while the use of less invasive coercive agents, such as spray protectors, handcuffs, conveyors, etc., is regulated separately in the second paragraph of Section 38 and at a slightly lower threshold of use. I am pleased that there is a joint committee that is behind the proposal for changes to the Penal Code § 14, § 27 and § 29a. The proposal for the introduction of spray protectors is promoted by the Right and the Advance Party of the Committee and will be supported by the Left and Christian People's Party. The four parties will thus form a plurality for a hustle and bustle that has for a long time been sought by the professional organisations in the criminal justice system and which the Directorate of Criminal Affairs has submitted to the Ministry of Justice and Defence. During the hearings of the Committee, several bodies indicated that the Ministry has not sufficiently addressed whether the use of spray protectors could constitute a health hazard and thus constitute a violation of Article 2 of the ECHR on the right to life. The EMD practice suggests that there may be a risk of violation of the article if the use of spray protectors is not adequately regulated by law or guidelines, that good enough training is not provided, or that insertions applied to spray protectors are not adequately supervised. Any use of coercive measures is regulated strictly in Norwegian legislation. The proposed legal text sets a high threshold for the use of spray protectors, and regulatory requirements are incorporated into the law. The use shall be further regulated in the criminal justice policy, which requires training and the maintenance of competences. Collective laws and guidelines will ensure the defence of use in accordance with Article 2 of the ECHR, as the rule is defined in the practice of the EMD. I would also like to point out to the police their many years of experience with the use of spitguards, that it has not harmed people, and that the police will benefit from the same type of name as the police. The proposal for the reorganization of the Criminal Court is promoted by the Right in the Committee, and we are pleased that this is supported by the Left and Christian People's Party. We recognise that the proposal will not have a majority in Stortinget, and we regret it, of course. It's quite incomprehensible to record that the majority of people think that more seamless criminal care, decentralisation of decision-making, clearer governance and leadership, more resources to the first line and increased competence are the wrong way to go for criminal care. In the long term, the reorganisation would have brought a total of 50 million people into the community of criminal services. kr annually. Now I see that the time is running out, so I'm going to end up taking up the suggestions that are made by the Right, and the proposal that Right is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1919	The representative Frida Melvær then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1924	In our profession as big business representatives, we often enjoy talking on behalf of people. This is the case in this case, and I am happy to say that the workers seem to have a majority and a majority vote in this Chamber today on the issue of the organisation of criminal justice. When, at the beginning of this period, I was given responsibility for the criminal service on behalf of the Workers' Party, there were several who gave me a note on behalf of the very matter we now have to deal with. Early, trustees, employees, leaders, and associations were involved, and I understand why. For 2016, this case was also considered. The result was that the Stortinget voted it down and asked the government to carry out an evaluation of today's organisation on three levels. The government has not done this. Instead, the government jumped over the decision of the Storting, and the message went out that it was to be reorganized. Voluntary mergers and seamless pilots have been initiated. This is both good and good, but as a basis for the Storting to make decisions, it is unfortunately less useful, as the evaluation is barely completed. For a long time, the government has also announced a big message for the criminal justice system. Most of us thought that this could provide a basis for the matter we have to deal with here today. But no, the crash message doesn't come until June. In addition, the government has pushed forward the outcome of Storting in the matter. During the hearing in the Judicial Committee, we were informed that a letter had been sent from the Department to the Directorate to begin locating the twelve units before the Committee's hearing on the matter. In the view of the Labour Party, this is very arrogant to the Stortinget, but especially to those who stood up in the hearing to express their views. The proposition itself is also unclear on several points. The Judicial Committee saw the need to ask no less than 12 questions to the Council of State for clarification. But even though the questions were clear, the answers were unfortunately rather wretched. When we asked if the first line would be strengthened, the answer was a redefinition of what the first line is. The Council of State reduced the number of commercial posts and the new directors to below the first line. It's easy to understand why. In this way, the State Council may say that the first line will be strengthened if more members of the Director’s staff are employed. When the Council of State cannot even define the first line in a decent way, it is primarily a reproach to the workers who go to work every day to meet the criminal convictions of our society, and it does not help the Storting in dealing with this matter. Strong leaders, hardworking bureaucrats, good accountants — yes, they're all needed in criminal matters. But the first line is most needed. Criminal custody has broken back. And as the chairman of the NFF said at the committee's hearing, the government answers questions no one has asked. I can add that the answers that have been given to questions that have been asked are not satisfactory either. It is worrying that the Committee does not receive a proper response from the Council of State, for example, neither on the economy nor on the structure of powers. This proposal, as presented to the Stortinget, is to be understood as a centralisation reform. In practice, the regions are not reduced, it is the local level that disappears and is replaced by something similar to 12 small regions. When voluntary care is shared with prisons, when there is no plan to implement the specific situation of the custodians, and when the Civil Ombudsman has on several occasions pointed out that the legal security of the isolated prisoners will be weakened as a result of this reorganisation, then it is difficult to understand what the government really wants with this proposal. Probably it all ends up in a desire for centralisation to save money on criminal custody. We've seen this before: when the Right slims the public sector, the doors are opened for private solutions. Rarely have I experienced such a great commitment as in this matter – from Daniel in the north to Morten in the west, Sabine in the southwest and Ingeborg in the south to Per Olav here in the east. Everyone has said that the case will not strengthen their working life – it will not strengthen the rehabilitation of the prisoners and will therefore not provide us with better criminal care. For the Labour Party, I would say: now is the time to repatriate Norwegian criminal justice, not reorganize it. I'm addressing the proposals on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1952	The representative of Aasen-Svensrud has addressed the proposals to which she referred. The next speaker is Per-Willy Amundsen, then Jan Bøhler. There'll probably be a break after Per-Willy Amundsen's posts because we're going to vote. But we'll take it when we get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1959	I know it's voting, but I guess I don't come up with such strong words today that there will be a need for a break after my post. We have an important case to deal with today, really in several areas, and especially in an area that is almost not mentioned at all, and that is about protecting employees in Norwegian prisons from prisoners who find it too good to spit after those who do nothing but their job in their role as employees in criminal matters. It seems to me relatively incomprehensible that most of the committee's time could be spent when we had this case at the hearing – a major reorganisation of the criminal justice system and the introduction of spit protection for those who work in the criminal justice system – recently. That's what got the most attention, and then massive attention, with claims that from my point of view appear very unreasonable, claiming to violate human rights when protecting people in criminal custody against prisoners who think it's okay to spit on them. If you don't want to use spit protection as an intruder, it's probably just not spitting. The fact that you have the kind of power to use against people who are completely unmanageable, I think should be a matter of course. So there is no violation of any human rights at all – and especially not with the strict requirements we base. That is why it is completely incomprehensible to me that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV want to stop the use of a spat mask. In the case of the Progress Party, it is only one thing that it is more important to protect employees in their working situation than to protect prisoners from being imposed any coercive measures when self-control cannot be exercised. So to what is really the big issue today, which is about another proposal to introduce a new reform in the field of justice – after a quite extensive reorganisation. For the Progress Party, politics is about voting for what we are for, and voting against what we are against. If we do not see that there are sound reasons to vote in favour of the proposals that are coming, and we want further evidence, further justification, it is not natural for us to vote in favour of it. The justice sector is a sector with many irons in the fire. I have no doubt that we have a Minister of Justice who is able to deal with all those irons and all those reforms, a comprehensive reform of the police, we have just adopted a reform of Norwegian courts – important reforms, for all things – but then we have been presented with a very comprehensive reorganization of criminal services, and that is before there is a big message on the table, as we have been promised, which is due to come to summer. From the perspective of the Progress Party, it would have been natural for us to deal with that big message first, take a position on the content, before we possibly went in and evaluated a major change in criminal law. That's what we're saying in this case. We're now rejecting it. If we have good reasons to make major changes, we do not reject it, but it will not be adopted during this magnification period. We may have to come back to that after the election. Then I ask myself at the same time how many reforms to implement at the same time. There's a lot going on in the Justice Department right now. However, I am not in favour of it – let us say – the very negative description of the need for reform, and how such a reform, a reorganization of criminal justice, may be implemented. I don't ignore the fact that there will be a need for that, but then I'm a little bit to cut from top to bottom and maybe not in the middle and down, because it's maybe the directorates that are the biggest problem in many contexts, at least in the case of the police. But we have to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1976	I'm not going to hold on that long, so I think it's going well considering the ringing to the vote. I agree with the rapporteur that it is important to highlight also those things on which there is agreement and which are positive in the proposal. It is right to introduce breath and motion sensors on the cells. The technical equipment shall be agreed within the Committee. It is right to have the opportunity to check up on the police records law as regards personal data for those who are going to visit prisons. It is right to have the possibility of short-term transfer to other prisons in connection with transfers to the rest of the world by, inter alia, catch transport. So there's several things there's consensus about here. With regard to the proposed major reorganisation, I am pleased that the Progress Party would take a break and look into it. We have the same approach, that we want to strengthen the local decision-making level, that is, the 70 prisons we have. We don't want to add up to what's really a transfer to a regional level, when you're going all the way down to twelve units, instead of basing most of the local positions on the 70 we have. I just want to say on the issue of saliva masks, that we are not against the introduction of it, but many at the hearing and many in different contexts have said that they believe that health-threatening effects should be better investigated before implementation. I myself have been visiting prisons where employees have mentioned the need for a spit mask with me. And I've seen that the two most important organisations that organize the employees are for it, while the NFF emphasises that the obligation to investigate needs to be met. That is why we are in favour of assessing the health consequences before it is introduced. But that does not mean that we are against and want to stop introducing a spatula if it turns out that the investigations that are coming are getting satisfactory results. We therefore agree on the proposals that we are promoting together with the Labour Party on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e1987	Then Stortinget takes a break in the debate to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2000	The majority vote first on the remaining cases from Thursday's meeting, case no. 6 to 10 on Agenda No 49.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2012	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-7, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 8, from Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of SV There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess socio-economic profitability and climate risk in the various Norwegian-socket fields’. Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2038	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-7, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to stop all allocations of new oil licences.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the stress testing of climate risk for the plan for the development and operation of the petroleum body [[PUD]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government requests the introduction of a neutral petroleum tax system and returns to the Stortinget with the necessary proposals to ensure this.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to pay a conversion fee for the production of petroleum in order to promote climate change and low-emission technologies, and to return to the Stortinget with the necessary proposals to ensure this.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortingen with proposals to abolish the search for fusion scheme.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a public body to assess how competences in oil and gas can be transferred to other industries and to propose measures to facilitate this.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to start work on competence transfer programmes and job security programmes, for example by model of previously reduced industry programmes, for the petroleum sector. Trade unions must be actively included in the work.» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2098	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2112	Was it very confusing? Then we'll take the vote again, and the president will try not to seem confusing. So it is that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2126	Case No. 7 was the own-initiative debate, and Case No. 8 was interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2208	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2219	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1 to 5 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2233	Case No. 1 is the third processing of law and applies to legislative note 5, cf. Legislative Decision 65, with the opinion adopted at the meeting of the Grand Duchy on 9 February 2021. It is therefore contested by the legislative decision with the adopted remark from the second reading.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2245	The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved by the third reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2257	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's: proposal No 1, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 3, from Gisle Meininger Saudland on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 4, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «As soon as possible, the Government is asked to make a regulation to ensure that workers from professional groups with special age limits are not allowed to have large sums coordinated away from the special age limit to 67 years.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2289	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose the lifting of statutory provisions in order to set special age limits for pensions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2304	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the government to resume negotiations with the employee organisations on future rules on special age limits, including the issues raised in the representative proposal 45 S [[2020-2021]] The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2321	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the Pensions Committee, which is to evaluate the pension reform, including the relationship between new retirement pension and other schemes, such as clarification of its mandate, is given the task of assessing the issue raised by the Representative’s proposal 45 S [[2020-2021]] The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2346	The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2365	In the course of the debate, a total of twelve proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3 and 4, by Erlend Wiborg on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 6 and 7, from Erlend Wiborg on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 8-10, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 11 and 12, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. 11 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to change the service provision for recipients of disability benefits, so that the disability is earned in retirement up to and including the calendar year in which he reaches the age of 66.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2403	There is a vote on proposal No. 9 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the funding of the retirementstopover via the Miscellaneous Item of the State Budget, as it has been done up to 2015.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2420	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 10, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to present its own case for changing the regulatory principles for current pensions from wage development minus 0.75 pst. to average wage and price growth.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Association of Pensioners participates in meetings of the Government Contact Committee.’ The Socialist Left and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2444	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals as soon as possible to ensure that the country’s pensioners do not lose their purchasing power as long as the employees do not. The necessary decisions were taken in spring 2021. The principle applies to the regulation of social security schemes as the average of wage and price increases. Social security provision in 2021 must also take account of lost purchasing power in 2020, in order to compensate for this.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The budget asks the government to include in the annual pension accounts a plan for occupational retirement provision to increase the level by SEK 7500 annually, with effect from 1 May each year, until the minimum pension reaches the poverty target EU60.’» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2469	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Party of Advancement, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to grant the right to negotiate for pensioners’ organisations in the social security system. The Pensioners’ Association/SAKO shall hold the negotiations on behalf of the pensioners.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to make provision for the Pensioners Association to be placed in the Technical Calculation Committee for Income Statements [[TBU]] Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2495	I voted against it, but it was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2500	Then we'll register it. There are then 57 representatives who have voted against the proposals of the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, and 30 representatives who have voted in favour. The proposals are therefore not accepted. There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit regulatory proposals to enable organisations to negotiate other issues relevant to pensioners, outside the framework of the pension agreement and where any budgetary implications are assumed to be included in the revised budget.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2521	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the impact of the retirement adjustment on different income and occupational groups is assessed and to make proposals to ensure that the economic differences between the different groups of pensioners are not increased.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2538	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals as soon as possible for the reintroduction of partial anti-life-age adjustment measures for former disabled retirement pensioners.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2610	It goes first over V, VI, VII and VIII. The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2624	It shall be added to IV and IX. The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2638	Alternatively, the vote will be taken between X and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to take the initiative, as soon as possible, to introduce pensions from the first crown in the private sector and for employees in the public sector, with a post rate below 20 p.m., with effect from 1 January 2022.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2657	It shall be counted against I, II and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2693	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Emilie Enger Mehl on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the possibilities for negotiating market access for selected agricultural products in the context of negotiations on EEA funds, so that Norwegian consumers can access a cheaper and wider range of food and give Norwegian farmers a freer food market and more opportunities for trade.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the use of EEA funds to improve areas covered by the EEA Agreement which are not functioning, including the limitation of welfare exports.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2731	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. One from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks in future negotiations with the EU on EEA funds after 2021 to base its call for Norway’s financial support to be reduced to the EU.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2820	We then go back to the examination of case No. 8 on today's map, and next speaker is Petter Eide.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2825	Now we're dealing with Prop. 143 L for 2019-2020. What's interesting about it is that it deals with a lot of different things. There are proposals for the improper reorganisation of criminal services, the introduction of surveillance equipment and the introduction of coercive measures. That's interesting because these elements require very different in principle approaches. So you might say here that it's a little unfortunate that they're dealt with in the same proposition, because they don't give us the opportunity to discuss these matters properly. I'm going to pick up at least two of these things. The thing about reorganising criminal services: I see that the fundamental challenge in criminal justice today is that there are too few people there, that rehabilitation is therefore going badly, and that rehabilitation programmes are almost stationary. This also leads to considerable frustration in prisons, resulting in the mass isolation of prisoners, as pointed out by the Civil Ombudsman, and also leads to an increase in violence inside prisons. This is the biggest challenge in criminal justice today. So what I expected to read about in a proposal for reorganization was that there were these problems you wanted to solve -- that's what was the key issues, the key challenges, the criminal care you wanted to solve with a reorganization. But it's not. It's completely different things, more administrative matters, also economic conditions, you want to look at. If the reorganisation had been about the things I mentioned, which I define as the major challenges, then we would have supported it. Now we don't, because we don't think they point to what's the central and important thing about the challenges in prison. With regard to the debate on saliva masks, it is a pity that Per-Willy Amundsen's representative is no longer in the Chamber, because he said instead that it has no legal consequences whatsoever for human rights to introduce new coercive measures into prisons. Basically, I am concerned that if we are to achieve good rehabilitation in Norwegian prisons, there must be a minimum level of conflict in prisons, and there must be good relations between the prisoners and the employees, so that rehabilitation can go well. The introduction of new coercive measures will definitely not contribute to this, at least not in the current situation of Norwegian prisons. It will increase the challenge and level of conflict in prisons. We have to remember that it might also require that the person be placed on the ground to wear a spit mask on an unobtrusive inmate. It will also require the use of handcuffs or ‘bodycuffs’ — they are called — or other types of coercive agents. This means that allowing the introduction of saliva masks into prison will increase the use of coercive substances in a completely disproportionate way. The Ombudsman stated in his hearing that introducing a new coercive measure into prison before the previous challenge of serious human rights violations in Norwegian prisons related to isolation had been solved, would increase the sum of human rights challenges in Norwegian prisons. So we're against it, in our proposal we want to ban it. But secondly, we will vote in favour of the proposals of the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party. Then it's introduced. So I just want to say in my last minute that it's kind of a constitutional objection -- that's interesting. We have good institutions in Norway, national institutions for human rights, including the Civil Ombudsman. They have been designated and even elected by the Stortinge to take care of human rights in Norway; they have been chosen by the Storinge to do so. Then it is strange and strange that the government chooses to submit a proposal to the Storting that the institutions chosen by the Storing to take care of this are opposed. In that way, the Ministry of Justice is ignoring the advice of the Norwegian Institute of Human Rights and the Civil Ombudsman, and I believe that it is helping to undermine the authority they have. I really don't think the Storting should accept that. With this, I submit the SV's proposal, and I also add, as a explanation of vote, that we vote in favour of the Workers' Party and the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2840	Then the representative Petter Eide addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2845	A social liberal state never gives up its belief in individuals. When a person has lost his or her sight and has begun to commit crime, the community shall be ready to assist him or her. One chance is what Norwegian criminal services are built on, and even if Norwegian criminal services deliver at the top of the world, we still have challenges. Labour training in prison leads many prisoners to take up work when they have finished paying, but the proportion who commit new crimes is too high. Today, the Stortinget will vote on a proposal for the reorganisation of criminal justice. The proposals for amendments have three objectives: firstly, closer follow-up of the prisoners when they have finished their term of office; secondly, to move more resources from the regional level down to the local prisons; and thirdly, to a Directorate of Criminal Welfare which will be given a comprehensive responsibility for developing Norwegian criminal justice. We want fewer resources to be used for administration and more resources to be used in prisons. Several Ministers of Justice from the Progressive Party have worked to reorganize and reorganize criminal justice. Nevertheless, the Progress Party is voting against the proposals when the government presents it to the Stortinget. It's surprising. Work on better criminal justice needs to continue, and the Left believes that measures to reduce the isolation of prisoners, improve conditions for women prisoners and build more youth places need to be given priority in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2858	Reorganisation of criminal services has been under way for several years, and proposals have also been made in the past for changes in criminal law. This work has been initiated and carried out since 2013 by my predecessors from the Progress Party in the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, it must be allowed to say that it is a little surprising when there is no longer a majority for this matter. However, let me briefly say that the aim of the proposal to reorganise has been to improve the quality of criminal services through a strengthened local level, a more comprehensive enforcement system that ensures progress and better rehabilitation, increased legal certainty and non-discrimination, as well as clearer establishment management. The proposal would imply that criminal services ranged from a three-level model to a two-level model where regional administrations are laid down and criminal services are located in twelve penitentiaries and two local units for the provision of community services. The majority of the resources released by the closure of the regional administrations shall be allocated to the 12 penal execution units. So this is the decentralisation of criminal services and the strengthening of local levels. The organisation of prisons and voluntary care centres in a single unit of joint management eliminates barriers between the implementation of criminal sanctions within and outside prison and between different levels of security. It would ensure better progress and recovery. The appeal proceedings were intended to be transferred from the regions to the Directorate of Criminal Affairs in order to ensure non-discrimination and legal certainty. The removal of the regional link would provide the directorate with a closer follow-up and clearer establishment management of local units. I note that a majority in the Grand Duchy no longer supports this change. The proposal also promotes proposals for authorisation for the use of saliva protection agents. The background for the promotion of the proposal is based on a wish of the employees. Spitting is very uncomfortable for those who are affected, and also involves the risk of infection. According to the proposal, the staff of the criminal justice system will be able to use spray protectors on an intruder in some situations to protect themselves against this. There will be strict conditions for using spray protectors. This shall be further regulated in guidelines and criminal services will provide training for personnel. Spray protectors will not be used unsupervised. I also welcome the Committee's support for the other proposals made by the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2879	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2884	A general understanding of the concept of ‘first line’ is that of staff working directly with service users, in this case convicted in the external level. Does the Council agree with this description of the first line?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2889	I heard the message from the representative that it was difficult to understand the new model. It is extremely simple: one removes one level, one removes leaders, one decentralizes, one leaves five regions and today's units, which are 29 prisons, eleven free-of-service offices, four units with prison and free-of-charge offices, and two centres for drug programmes with judicial control. So this is going to add up to twelve penitentiaries. In addition, two joint units are established in the districts. I don't know how hard this is to understand, but there are fewer leaders, there are larger local units, and the resources you save, about 50 million. kr, is added to the local level, which is 12 of which is going to be in the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2894	I thank you for the answer, which was an answer to a completely different question than what I asked. It was a good review of the proposed model, which I clearly have. What I asked was: a general understanding of the concept of first line is the manning that works directly with the service user, i.e. in criminal matters the convicted person. Does the Council agree with this description of the first line?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2899	This is no theoretical practice in management. This is a description of what we're proposing. We propose twelve penal enforcement units. That means both those who work directly with those who live in temporary homes, with those who are in prison, and that means managing the local levels. This is the first line, and then the second line is going to be the Directorate of Criminal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2905	Then I thank you for that and state council believes that directors, bureaucrats, accountants and all those who work in what might be called some kind of unit are the first line, and not only those who work with the service users. We also have a discussion about spitguards here now. The Civil Ombudsman, Legal Aid Organisations, NFF and KRUS have pointed out that the obligation to investigate life and health in the case of saliva masks has not been complied with. The State Secretary, in a debate with me, has stated that what concerns the EMK has been assessed, but not the health perspective. Why hasn't the Council of State made arrangements to interact with the Ministry of Health so that the obligation to investigate life and health could have been met?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2912	First, I have to repeat: the first line term is the Working Party so busy because you're busy keeping three levels. There is a great deal of care to have the most possible leaders and directors in the criminal justice system. We're talking about level. Level 1 and level 2 are very familiar concepts that should be easy to use. That's what I said. So the first line is the Workers' Party concept. Then I see that it has been discussed in the hearing of the committee whether we have made a sufficient investigation on the part of the ministry as regards Article 2 EMK. Then I just want to say that we mean that we have. But if you think that we have not done so, it is at least repaired at the committee's examination, because the committee has dealt with this in a thorough manner. We therefore believe that the considerations to be taken into account are being taken into account. We also have a long experience with the use of these masks in the police without this leading to any situation where life and health are at stake.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2925	I asked for a line of curiosity, because I have registered that in this case, the Ministry of Justice has presented the Stortinget with a case that the Stortinge's own human rights monitoring bodies are in fact opposed. We know that in the case of saliva masks, both the Norwegian institution for human rights and the Civil Ombudsman are very critical. My question is: why does the Ministry of Justice present a case to the Stortinget when the Storting's own bodies to care for human rights are actually opposed to the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2930	I think we have to change the political processes if it's the way the government shouldn't bring forward things that the bodies of the Storing disagree with. I guess that's not what the representative means. I assume that the representative believes that the government will present the matters that the government believes are right, and then the Storting will make an assessment of whether they are sufficient or not. This is not the first time the government and the Civil Ombudsman disagree, and it is probably not the last time either. But what is important is that we get good debates on this, that we get informed debates and thorough treatment. This case has been in Stortinget for a very long time, and you have probably had time from August to go through all parts of this proposition. I perceive that we have done a thorough treatment. Then there's a debate about parts of this, and we just have to live with it. It's the Stortinge that makes decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2935	It's quite right, it's not something constitutionally wrong for the Ministry of Justice to present to the Stortinget a case that the human rights supervisory bodies, the Civil Ombudsman and the Norwegian Human Rights Institute are opposed. There's nothing constitutional wrong with doing that, but my question then would be: doesn't it help to undermine the authority of these two institutions that the Stortinget has just established to make sure that Norway keeps its human rights path clean?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2940	I disagree. I believe that we have made assessments of relations with the EMC, Article 3 and Article 8. As regards Article 2, which has been criticised, I believe that at least it has been repaired in the Committee's examination of the matter. Of course, the committee could send it back to the ministry. I don't think it was necessary or proportionate, but that issue has been evaluated by the committee. So we have many years of experience using this tool in the police without, of course, endangering neither life nor health.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2945	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2952	Then I want to discuss a little more about the spitter. People who go to work every day in our prisons are involved in making our society safer, and they deserve to be listened to when they come with concerns about their safety at work. The Labour Party knows that the most important thing we can do to secure the daily lives of employees and prisoners in Norwegian prisons is to have enough competent people at work. That is why, in our alternative budgets, we have gradually increased the pot, precisely to strengthen labour and manpower. Competitive staff are needed to work together with the prisoners. This creates relationships and prevents threats. I know that people in criminal custody are well trained to deal with demanding prisoners and extreme situations. Therefore, we should be responsive when they ask for measures to secure their own working day. However, we cannot introduce a new protective agent for employees without the risk of life and health being assessed. This case we are now facing as to the basis for the use of saliva in criminal care is an example where the danger of life and health has not been assessed. The government has failed to comply with the investigation obligation. So the state council in the line change here believes that this has been taken care of by the committee. That's wrong. The Committee has no professional competence whatsoever to assess life and health through the use of saliva. The civil ombudsman has pointed out what has been pointed out by the Norwegian Fengsels- und Freiomorgsförbund, as KRUS has pointed out – several have pointed out that there is also little experience to suggest that the hood will be able to prevent unwanted spitting, as it often occurs spontaneously and without any warning. No one has suggested that spray protectors should be used preventively, except that it may work as the ministry believes when writing in the proposition that saliva densities can be used to test prisoners in common. Such a statement can only come from people who work in the office and otherwise have never put their legs in a prison ward. To try an inmate dressed in saliva and ‘bodycuff’ – I have never met any staff members of the criminal service who are in charge. Rather, Norsk Fengsels- und Freiorgsförbund points out that Stortinget should consider whether spynthette should be a modest coercion, as proposed by the government. Much argues that the threshold for using saliva should be higher than that, possibly at the level of an ordinary coercive agent. The government could also have made a proper assessment of this. I'm afraid they haven't. What everyone agrees with is that more people are needed for work in prisons. The working party asks to send this matter back to the government, so that the government can have the opportunity to comply with the obligation they have. The working party also suggests that spitting densities should under no circumstances be used for children.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2969	This is one day and one thing I think makes some of those who observe us from the outside and in the sector, have to fool little bit about what we're doing in the politics and corridors of this house. The fact that this reform, of all the reforms we have debated and discussed, was the one that was supposed to crash in the main hall, I had actually not seen. This may have to be the clearest and most obvious correct reform to implement in the field of justice. One thing is that it's 50 million. kr in savings – then we can start thinking for every year we had introduced this. If we had done that four years ago, as we initially wanted, we might now have been up to 200 million. kr was spared and pushed out at the extremes of the criminal justice system. But the really sad thing is what can't be measured in crowns and ears: legal certainty, stability, non-discrimination, more efficient management, better administration, and obviously in the long run the possibility of better criminal execution and better rehabilitation of individual prisoners. All of this is now waiting in this room. So at the top of it all, it meant a decentralization. Of all the debates we've had on centralisation and non-centralisation, this is the most obvious case of decentralization. It's not easy to get wise. The judgment in the reports has been very clear: today’s organisation is inappropriate, and it prevents good enforcement – not good. I know that everyone in both the Committee on Justice and this Chamber is friends of the Criminal Service and wants them to succeed in the incredibly important social mission they have. Then we disagree on the way forward. But right now, I think that criminal services had benefited from some friends who actually wanted to take some action, show some action and efficiency, and who are not just running and hiding behind arguments that there are no investigations, that this needs to be investigated more, or that you are not involved enough – all these skin arguments that occur when you really just hurt in the will. This is the day when the Stortinget should have completed and given the criminal care to the future and organisation they need in order to build, maintain and maintain the amazingly high level we have in Norwegian criminal care. They don't get it, but at some point, the economic forces of gravity are going to come in, and the criminal services are going to get the reform they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2982	The representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2988	I must be allowed to make a brief comment on the last article. The problem here is that the government has not done its job. The job has not been done since this was dealt with in 2016. A blue copy of the case has been delivered without doing what the Stortinget asked for, which was a proper evaluation of the organisational model that is for criminal care today. Nor does the government, with eight ministers of justice, be able to deliver a big message for the criminal justice system – no, it is coming to the brink of this period. What basis should the Storting really have? As Frülich says, criminal services have the right to be properly treated by the Stortinget, and the Workers' Party has often suggested to do so. We have promoted this through our alternative budgets and a good criminal care programme, which we are now putting on the table, and it will amount to well over 50 million. As the Council of State points out, this reform would save money.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e2995	I think in this discussion we actually have to respect the fact that we have a slightly different view of how well documented the changes that have been proposed today in terms of reform in criminal matters are. I listen to the representative Frölich and hear what he says. I don't think the representative Frölich really means everything he says. I really do not believe that the representative Frölich believes that the police reform and the important judicial reform that we adopted just before Christmas are less important than the reform we have to deal with today. I honestly don't think so. But it's true that we've been through a lot of reforms throughout the justice sector, and then there's a certain lack of reform going on. We're going to take that seriously. It's not like we're going to reorganize just to reorganize. It creates a lot of noise, it creates a lot of trouble out there. And it is always demanding to be reformed, not least because there are accusations that are not necessarily correct, from those that are not necessarily followers of the reform. In this case, on behalf of the Progress Party, I need to say: When we report today that we are contributing to a majority against implementing the extensive change we are presenting today in the criminal justice system, believe that it is because we need more knowledge, we want to know more, and we will deal with the paper on criminal care before we decide on any changes. It may well come in the next big period, it may even be a Minister of Justice from another government proposing it. It's not impossible. But let's at least have the basis for making these changes before we possibly adopt them. We have not said with our decision that we have announced today that it is not appropriate for us to contribute to changes in the criminal justice system, but we reserve the right to deal with the paper first, and then it may happen, perhaps, that we are involved in changes, not necessarily as it is on the table today, but perhaps other types of changes than those prescribed by the government in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3004	I forgot to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee on this matter – I have to do that, of course. There is a great deal to talk about, as you can see in the comments on the subject, that the process has not been thorough enough, and that there is a need for more knowledge and information. It is also claimed by the Progress Party, which has well ordered the background material on which the case is based, both Divi's evaluation from 2017 and the Crime Investigation Directorate's report. But enough about it. I am very satisfied with the background material that is leading. I didn't think it was a very happy reading. There's been a lot of good work done in criminal care today. It might also suggest that I have some rest in this particular matter. But there's a challenge picture in the background material that I think the respective parts of the hall might not have taken all the way in. But I'm completely overconfident that this is coming again. The opposition is forced to assume that we need to make changes in the criminal justice system, because crime is changing, and the population of inmates is changing. We are constantly facing new challenges that we need to address, and the Directorate of Criminal Affairs, KDI, is very clear that today's organisation does not meet the challenge picture ahead of us. With that, we'll have to wait for things to come back to Stortinget at some point.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3017	I just have to clarify, so that I am neither misjudged nor misunderstood: I have not measured the importance of different reforms against each other. There would be a completely different debate and an entirely different article. What I've done is I've said that of all the reforms we've discussed in the Justice Committee and in this Chamber for the last two major periods, there is no other reform that is so obviously unproblematic and uncontroversial. It should really have been more or less unanimous. The arguments for are so strong, and the arguments against it are so few that this should not have been done today – it should have been done many years ago. Now let's draw our feet again. Let's pause everything. It's not the end of the world, it's going to be fine, and it's still going to be good services, but they'd deserve better.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3022	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3040	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3047	On behalf of the Judicial Committee, on a proposal from the Workers' Party, we present a case which at the core is that the prison staff should not be used to wash prison cells. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to establish washing and cleaning facilities as its own department attached to the units of criminal law.’ I expect the Workers' Party to come up here afterwards and explain the argument. The essence of this is that the proposers believe that the washing and cleaning of prison cells is skilled work. Especially in the situation we are in now, with considerable infectiveness, this must be done by our own professional staff. This is in so far as it is a premise of the Committee as a whole, that the challenges of infectious disease protection also require a kind of expertise in the clean-up of prisons. Then the proposers also believe that this is a poor use of the prison staff's work capacity. They have a long education related to how to rehabilitate prisoners into a life of freedom, and they should not spend their time washing cells in prisons. This is at the heart of the proposal, and it is supported by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV. It's not getting majority. So I can say, as a comment from SV, not as the case rapporteur, that I perceive that this is somewhat linked to the discussions we have had about criminal care, both today and before – that there is a despair behind this and above the resource situation that we have seen in Norwegian prisons in recent years, where there are still fewer employees, harder climates inside prisons, less time for rehabilitation, etc. Normally, it would not be necessary for the Storting to go in and regulate who does what tasks within prisons, but I see it as the Workers' Party in this case, and the representative Aasen-Svensrud, who is particularly concerned about it, in the perspective that we have come to a point where the Storing must go in and regulate in detail some of what is going on inside the prisons. Finally, I will be allowed to thank the Committee for its cooperation. It's gone free of squeaks, I'd say. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3067	Today, prison officers and factory officers are washing everything from faeces to blood at work in prisons. That's the way it's been throughout the pandemic. It is high time that criminal services were strengthened with permanent employees of professional cleaners. There is little doubt that this will strengthen the protection of workers and prisoners. Norwegian Prison and Free Care Associations raised the issue of infectious diseases in the criminal justice system almost a year ago. It has therefore been known for a long time that there are considerable differences between prisons and prisons in who is carrying out infectious washing and in what routines there are for this. It is, as the representative understands, that routine descriptions of training and competence requirements have been put in place lately, but it is still not clear who is actually to carry out the washing. Today there are only twelve cleaners employed throughout the criminal care system, and in some places the hired cleaners. It's high time we had a regular clean-up employee. We have the world's best trained prison officers in Norway, and we know they're going a long way to carry out the work they're set to do. But the law enforcement officers have no education to handle professionally done laundry and cleaning. Purity is a subject and a profession that should be carried out by trained skilled workers. In addition, this proposal, which the rapporteur had in mind, will free the time for the officers to do the job they are actually trained to do, just to work with the important rehabilitation work with the convicted. That many prisoners have washing and cleaning as part of their work training while in prison is very good. This proposal will provide more professional content and a good opportunity for professional skills and letters through guidance from trained professionals in the profession. For the Workers' Party, it is also an independent point to strengthen the public service offer with permanent and full jobs. We have experience that the proposal will also be profitable over time and ensure a decent working life. The experience gained in the field of the privatisation of cleaners, and the costs involved, was made clear in the Fafo report ‘When the job is put out for tender’. Permanent employment of cleaners in prison is to take the special competence of the cleaners seriously and that as a society we recognise the importance of professional clean-up. With this proposal, we do more than pat for the people in the first line, we take the competence seriously. I recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3086	I have visited quite a number of prisons in recent years, including during the pandemic, and then after the invitation from representatives of organizations in criminal services, of course under strict protection. I'll be so honest to say that I can't think that the issue raised by the representatives of the Labour Party in this proposal has been raised as a theme, neither from the addendum, from the lead nor from the insertion during my visits and conversations with the establishment. On the contrary, washing and cleaning have often been described as an important measure of activity and learning for those involved, an activity conducive to knowledge of hygiene, responsibilities and measles. Several times, I have been given the opportunity to meet and talk with the insert while doing cleaning tasks in the common area, and I feel that this is something that most people put in, and that they are doing in an impressive way. To date, I have never responded to poor hygiene during my visit to prison, on the contrary. What I also notice in such situations is the good tone that is between the insert and the add. Perhaps doing practical work or other activities creates a lower threshold for talking and giving the inserted person attention and commendation for well done work. I believe the normal conversation that usually occurs during everyday tasks, often underestimated in the rehabilitation work. I recognize, of course, that this is not enough, and that there also needs to be more professionally based conversations. Whatever the case, I think these are tasks that should be carried out and that underpin the normality principle underlying criminal law. I also understand that we don't disagree with the Working Party in it. I can understand that during the pandemic, there have been issues of adequate hygiene, with a particular focus on infective washing. As stated in the letter of reply from the Council of State, detention in prison has had extra attention during the pandemic. I'm glad, and I want to stress that this is important. As few and very limited outbreaks of infection have been recorded, it is likely that the contents established are sufficient. But I registered that KDI in the morning of NRK for a good week – in response to Asle Aase in the NFF, who addressed this topic – announced that they would start training for adders to carry out or hire others in infectious and incarceration work, and who do not have all the professional letters in this. Correspondingly, this will apply to deployment, so that they also receive the necessary training and competence. I also fully understand that it is unpleasant to have to wash if someone has pigs for cella with body fluids or other piggy, but with KDI's plan to initiate training measures, relevant and defensive protective equipment and the possibilities of hiring professional services if the situation warrants it, I think that the device we have today is adequate. As the Council of State also stated in the letter of reply to the committee, prisons in the country are very different in area and number of prisoners. I think the smallest unit is about 16 inserts, and the largest units are over 200. I think that each unit needs to have the flexibility necessary to organise the retention services in the way that is most appropriate from local circumstances. It is also worth noting that prisons offering vocational letters in laundry and cleaning often have their own detention centres where training is provided by workmen or other professionals or relevant competences. I have also wondered whether the representatives of the Labour Party believe that the organisation of detention services in prison has changed since they themselves were responsible for government. As far as I know, she doesn't have it, and I've tried to ask myself for it. In that case, is it so to understand that the Labour Party believes that the organization of detention in prison was satisfactory as long as they themselves put in power, but that the same organization is totally unacceptable under sitting government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3101	Good sanitation in prisons is important. It has become particularly evident during the Korona epidemic, where routines and sanitation in prisons have been reinforced. In 2020, criminal services acquired additional infectious disease protection equipment to be used for clean-up purposes. The use of external professional laundry services has also been used where necessary. In the new era of the State budget for 2020, criminal services were compensated for the cost of infectious equipment in prison. Additional clean-up efforts are one of several criminal services that have limited the spread of infection in Norwegian prisons, and have resulted in little infection in Norwegian prisons after almost one year of pandemic. As a general rule, prisoners themselves carry out clean-up activities in prisons. The Directorate of Criminal Welfare points out that the clean-up of your own cell is an important remedy that prepares the prisoners for release. As the proposers also refer to, washing and cleaning are an important activity offer in prisons. Work is the largest daily activity of prisoners in prison. One of the activities is cleaning and work in clothing stores and laundry, including washing of common areas, bedding, towels and prison clothes. Several prisons have their own laundry facilities where prisoners are trained in laundry and cleaning of textiles, easy repair of clothing and HMS. As in other departments and workshops, higher education and the possibility of taking a professional letter are also offered here. In such cases, the task of managing training, employment and follow-up of prisoners will generally be reserved for civil servants, usually with professional letters as a keeper, and not for prison officers. In prisons where appropriate and where washing and cleaning are an important activity offer through work, washing and cleaning are usually already subject to a separate department. Prisons of criminal law are very different, both in form and size. The different units will need different cleaning tasks. I therefore believe that it should be up to the criminal services and individual units themselves to consider resolving the need in the way they find it most appropriate for the individual unit, within the framework they have. On this basis, I do not think it is appropriate to establish washing and cleaning as a separate department attached to the units in the criminal service.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3118	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3123	Now, unfortunately, this good proposal does not get a majority here today. However, employees have now over time pointed to challenges related to the implementation of incarceration in prisons. I am fully aware that there has been some grip from the directorate, and that is good. But does the Council of State really take this issue seriously, especially now under the pandemic, and will the Council of State ensure that professional clean-up is introduced into the criminal justice system?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3128	I think I've answered that question quite thoroughly. I trust that criminal services will organise themselves in the way they think most appropriate. This is also an important part of the daily lives of prisoners. I believe that in the same way that you and I probably – at least I – are washing our own house, it is important that prisoners do it, that you live as normal as you can within the framework of being engaged. Then, both from the Directorate of Criminal Affairs and from the government, additional funds have been taken into account in this situation. But that's a difficult situation for everyone in all industries now that we have a pandemic where we all have to clean and wash a lot more. We do that in the departments. That's what employees do on airplanes. It does employees in shops, in kindergartens, in schools, in our hospitals. There's a special situation that requires a lot of many, and I just have to say that I fame both employees and inmates for the efforts they have made in this difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3135	It is clear that we wash quite a lot in this pandemic, but there is probably a big difference between washing down a cell, ingested by blood and faeces, and washing in the department – I hope – and in my own home. Does the Council of State think that this kind of specialized infective wash, which I think we need to say in an institution like a prison, now under a pandemic will be carried out by unskilled personnel?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3142	Generally in politics, I believe that we should repair what has been destroyed. Like the representative Melvær, I have been around the criminal service this year with pandemics, and have not received any enquiries that this is a problem. So here I have to say, I'm really wondering what problems you're going to have to solve. My impression is that this is well solved on the individual units. It's solved differently, but it's solved in a good way that takes care of both prisoners and employees, and that's how I think it's going to go on. I hear the Labour Party had a trust reform here earlier, and I'm a little uncertain about what it is, because to the extent that you can control the police, the criminal services and the court, you do it – down to the smallest detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3150	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3157	The representative of Melvær could probably have enjoyed listening a little bit better both to what I say from this pulpit, and to what is being told during visits to the criminal services. I can also recommend the representative and the Council of State to read the Free Trade Movement on a daily basis, because both the representative and the Council of State would see that the proposal that has been promoted here is not made in a vacuum at all, but in good professional and political cooperation with the elected representatives of the criminal authorities. It is the criminal services and the employees themselves who have asked for the issue of infective washing and of washing and cleaning in criminal matters to be addressed. This also knows well, when you can refer to the NFF taking it up with the directorate earlier, at the beginning of the pandemic. So to the representative Melvær, who suggests that I believe everything was perfect under our previous government. Yes, much was better, but everything was probably not perfect then either. At that time, I myself worked at Basklön in prison, and I can stress that it was probably not all that was perfect with the cleaning team there either, although a lot was good. But the fact that it wasn't perfect under us doesn't mean that it can't be better today. And then we'll see if we can maybe clean this up from the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3164	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3181	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3188	It may be appropriate to point out that I am not the case rapporteur – the case rapporteur is not present today. Police attestation and child care certificate is an important system to ensure that children and young people receive good protection. The system we have today ensures that known offenders are not given the opportunity to maintain their activity unhindered for a long time. Nevertheless, the system has weaknesses. It's limited in time, it doesn't capture unknown crimes, and it doesn't cover all kinds of crimes. Therefore, the Workers' Party supports the requirement for a review of the Child Care Certificate scheme and the introduction of a renewal scheme. There are good reasons to introduce a renewal of police certificates after a given period of time or if you get a new job in an organisation. The Norwegian Sports Association, Redd Barna, Red Cross and Stine Sofies Foundation are among those who support the introduction of a renewal scheme. They point out that there is a gap in the law that neither contracting nor employers have the opportunity to ask for the renewal of police certificates. The Norwegian Sports Association considers this to be so serious that they have stated in the hearing that ‘the scheme no longer works as intended’ and that ‘it will gradually provide less and less protection over time’. These are strong arguments for introducing a renewal scheme. Based on the weaknesses of today’s system, the Labour Party believes that a review of the Child Care Certificate is also needed. The digital development needs to be taken into account, the possibility that automation can ensure that new offences are caught and sent out to those who have asked for a certificate. A review should also address the possibility of sharing these certificates across borders, in particular to our neighbouring country. We've seen examples that this is a failure of the system. For the Workers' Party, it is important that legal certainty is essential when drawing up police certificates. It is also important that we do not receive double penalties for general rights and that a penalty should be applied when it is sonic. We are skeptical of too many extensions in time and criminal offense. The SV representative proposal proposes to extend the infringements to be included in a child-care certificate by including the penal code § 271, 272 and 273 on disability and body damage. For the Workers' Party, the most important thing is that sexual abuse is covered in broad terms, and we do not disagree that other infringements should be investigated. Therefore, we also propose that a review of the Child Care Certificate should include an assessment of whether sections 272 and 273 should be included in the Child Care Certificate. There must be special attention from the government. However, we are not sure that, for example, violations of Section 271 of the Law on Impairment should automatically result in an inability to train, for example. a football ball. It's not obvious that all kinds of violence episodes committed in a completely different situation than providing child support will automatically have a transfer value, if you're convicted and have the zone. The most important thing must be that the measures provide real protection for children. That is why we are in favour of a renewal scheme for childcare certificates and a broad review that addresses all the matters I have now mentioned on behalf of the Workers' Party. I recommend setting, which the Working Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3207	Today's police record system and child care certificate are an important vehicle for preventing criminal acts, and we will do even more to prevent violence and abuse against minors. The proposal under consideration today suggests that only acts of violence against minors should be mentioned on the police record. The rules of criminal law on acts of violence apply regardless of the age of the victim. If we want to mark on the police's certificate only for violent crimes against minors, this will mean that the police will have to go into every single case to check the age of the offended. We would like to remind you that about 400,000 police certificates are issued each year, and that such a proposal will be very resource-written and lead to longer processing times. The government is working to improve police certification systems in many areas. As you know, there is a holistic review in the Ministry of Children and Family, where several proposals have been heard and are to be submitted to the Stortinget. These proposals extend today’s privacy to obtain police clearance for people who organise training for minors, so that all organised training activities are covered. It is also proposed to amend existing home countries which currently provide access to a health certificate so that, as a general rule, there is an obligation to obtain such a certificate. It is also proposed to introduce police certification requirements for the addition of e.g.: family protection offices, external brokers by children’s eloquence and marriage law, added to the Children’s Residence and added to schools covered by health care, such as: art and music schools, Bible schools and commercial schools. The Ministry of Children and Family also has a notice that it should be assessed to introduce police certification requirements for several private enterprises that are in contact with minors, such as playgrounds, child care facilities at the training centre and the purchasing centre, businesses that provide child care services, sports facilities, swimming pools and trainers who are engaged by private people. It shall also be possible to identify the offences which would lead to the provision of a child care certificate. I look forward to getting this matter thoroughly distributed to Stortinget, to make the system of police clearance even better than she is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3224	Even though we are few in the room, we discuss one important thing. In fact, in the case of child care certificates and police certificates, in the case of persons responsible for children, there must be a possibility of reporting whether they are intended, accused, convicted, etc. for sexual crimes. This may result in future employment, for example: I just want to say, by and large, this is an absolutely amazing invention. Here we have created a safety net in our beautiful country where we are to ensure that for those who are responsible and caring for working with children, the community creates a control system to ensure that the children can have it safely and well. It also makes it possible for us, as parents, to trust the systems around us in a completely different way, precisely because we know that the community, like that. The Storting, has made such an arrangement. From this point of view, the police certification system must also be regarded as an ideological system, because the interests of the community in order to take care of these children are over both parents and the various institutions involved here. So the debate in Stortinget today is an important debate, in which we are discussing how we can make this system even better. We also show a kind of agreement on this construction work of police certificates related to the work with children. That we agree on that, we must stick to it. Although we do not fully agree on all the proposals today, we agree on this framework. It is fine that there is great support for a renewal scheme, and there is also great support for a wider extension. SV wants to go one step further, along with the Progress Party. We want to expand the system, we want to expand the legal framework that will be the basis of the police record, in other words, that elements related to body damage and physical impairment should also be included in the police record. We believe that this enlargement is important because we believe that the areas of today in which it is to be reported are not sufficient. It can provide a type of false security for both children and parents when these elements are not included. We have to remember that, for example. serious physical impairment can lead to imprisonment for up to six years, so when it is not included in the police certification schemes, we can bring in people who are simply not quite to be trusted. Then, of course, as the representative Henriksen was also involved in his post, which was a very good contribution for the rest, we have to discuss how many crimes we are going to include in a police certification scheme. I fully agree that we have some crucial legal security elements associated with that. However, we believe that this extension, which SV with the support of the Progress Party also stands for, is a logical and necessary extension to make the Child Care Certificate good, safe and secure for all involved. So, of course, it's not like that, and then I can refer a little bit to the Right Note, that getting to a perfect childcare certificate system is the most important thing we can do to ensure child safety. No, there's a tiny element in securing children against abuse. There are a number of other things that we are also discussing here at Stortinget, which we have to do to give children better protection from abuse. But we definitely believe that this is an essential element that we can also relate to this, in order to strengthen this system. So I'm just going to end by submitting our proposals and also saying that if they fall, SV will vote subsidiaryly for II.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3241	The representative Petter Eide has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3246	This is a matter which is mainly about the protection of children. I think it is very gratifying to see the good work that has been done in the Justice Committee. Something is the majority for, and as you know, and as the representative, Eide, too, there are some proposals that unfortunately do not get a majority today. In addition to the Judicial Committee, there is another committee that receives a lot of information on this type of issue, and that is the Family and Culture Committee. As a representative of that committee, concerned parents are regularly contacted by people who work in the police themselves, and not least by the private sector, but also, of course, by actors in sport. I therefore think it is very good that today you have a majority for at least some of the proposals, to move on in the process. This is a matter that I have reminded the Minister for Children and Family on a number of occasions. I understand that it sometimes takes time to work things out, but I had a expectation that something could have been delivered now. It was announced a big deal about this that would come in 2020, but as we know, it has not been delivered. In the last year, we have read a number of new issues that underline the importance of closing gaps in the law. The issues are many, as has also been identified in the Justice Committee. I reminded the family minister not later than in January of a written question about when one could expect something to be delivered to the Stortinget about this. Unfortunately, the answer was not quite as I had hoped. I'm glad that, as I said, we get a majority for some of the changes today. It gives a clear message from Stortinget to the government that we are on the side of the children. Many of these children have no time to lose. Therefore, I believe it is important that that signal is sent as clearly as it is from this room today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3259	Schools, kindergartens and public institutions, as well as leisure activities, shall be safe for children and young people. It is essential to ensure children and young people freedom and equal opportunities. It requires systematic and preventive work to ensure that these are safe arenas for children and young people, and the possibility of requiring police certification also for adults who are trainers in sports or have management duties in voluntary teams and associations where they are responsible for children is one of several important instruments. Recently, VG revealed that several offenders in Norway have travelled abroad to continue training children. Although the police record prevents them from working with children in Norway, this information is not forwarded to other countries. This is a dirt hole that has to be sealed. The government takes this very seriously, and it is working across departments to find better solutions for child care certificates. Work is ongoing in the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs to improve the system of childcare certificates, which includes: examines whether the scheme should be extended to several positions of trust in children and whether to consider whether the certificate should include more criminal offences, as proposed by this proposal. We need to ensure that the use of childcare certificates is a good and relevant tool to help create safe arenas for children and young people and to prevent abuse. A secure growth is the basis for a good life. Many of today's addicts and people who labor are former victims of abuse when they were children. There are many thousands who in today's Norway are struggling after an assault that was committed when they were children. That is why it is important to take this very seriously, and I believe that both the government and the opposition parties are doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3272	Children and young people shall be protected from abuse. The requirement for a police record is an important part of this, but it is also important to remember that a police record without comments is not a guarantee that a person has not committed or will commit a crime, or that a person is fit for the task. Therefore, the employer or other recipients of police certificates have a separate responsibility to put in place appropriate measures to avoid any abuse. With regard to the penalties to be observed on a child care certificate, the Ministry of Children and the Family is already investigating, together with the departments concerned. Today’s rules do not allow new police certificates to be issued at regular intervals. The reason for this is that it will be resource-intensive, while not necessarily catching up on new matters of importance in time. However, I would like to stress that a new certificate can be issued if a person ends up in a job or employment and later applies for a new job or employment in the same place. It is also possible for the employer or other recipient of a police certificate to contact the police and to provide new information relevant to the content of the certificate, such as: where one suspects that an employee is accused or convicted of a criminal offence which would have been recorded on the certificate. In this way, the employer is given the opportunity to ascertain that the requirements for misconduct are still met. The application for and issue of police attestations is already being made digitally. However, I would like to assess whether it is possible to digitise this process to an even greater extent in order to ensure an effective system. At the same time, important considerations need to be reconciled, both in terms of privacy and legal certainty. It has to be taken care of. Otherwise, of course, we will follow up on the proposals that are being passed on to the majority today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3285	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3290	If I know the Minister of Justice correctly, she has a very strong commitment also to the safety of children. The minister also referred to the Ministry of Family Affairs’ ongoing work on police certification schemes. I think it is good that the Council of State emphasises that she will consider more use of the digital. We can go a long way, but I wonder if the Minister of Justice might be able to say something more about the time aspect, which the Minister of Children and Family could not quite answer. When can we expect the department to deliver something on the issue of police records?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3304	I hope we all burn for the good of children and young people. That's why we all know that this is an important matter, but we have to do even more than just look at a police record. That was really my main score in the post. I may not be able to answer for the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Minister's work on this, but I know that it is now being worked on, and that there are meetings and debates on it. So I want to believe that he too is impatient to deliver this matter to the Stortinget, which is promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3311	Then I'll have reminders for the family minister once again. The minister stresses that there are other things that need to be done than a police certificate, and I agree with that, although this with police certificates is very important and underlined by more people in the industry, including sports associations. Can the Minister state what other measures are now being taken to ensure the safety of children?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3320	I'd like to. A police record will show what has happened de facto in any crime, but it won't show everything that has happened, because everyone isn't being prosecuted and convicted, and it won't show what is going to happen, because we don't know that. It is very important that both employers and, perhaps, those responsible for children and young people in recreational activities, sports, culture and other settings, do their job of examining whether a person is fit, what conditions are around a person, and taking alerts seriously. We have seen examples in the sport that alerts are not taken seriously, linked for example. to bullying, which is also a terrible situation for children and young people to be in, and which would not have been revealed by such a certificate. So you have a responsibility when you are the leader of children and young people – that you not only look at a certificate but also look after yourself in other ways. It's important to take care of our children.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3329	I'm active in sports, and I have to say that for us it would be very useful to have a system of renewal of these certificates, child care certificates, because there's a difference in knowing about something that has happened, having a suspicion, talking about it and turning around to know about people we work closely with, versus that there's a renewal scheme that makes us safer that this comes for a day. When the Council of State says that if we ask for it, we can get it, and that she's working on digitisation, which will make this less resource-intensive – why has the step to go into a renewal scheme so far? Now the Storting is going to ask for it today, but why is the difference so great for the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3336	It's important that we get a digitization in place, that makes sense anyway. But when you, for example, will require police officers to enter each request and check out the age of a relationship. It's resource-intensive. 400,000 certificates are issued each year, and if they are to be renewed permanently, they require resources. You can do that, and I understand that it is wanted and asked, but then you have to put down a different priority. And if the option is to investigate matters against children and young people, I won't agree with that assessment. Then I realize that it will be good for sports teams and some others to get these regular requests, and that it may be demanding to ask for new information, but the alternative is like saying that you prioritize something else, and that's what's so difficult. That is why it was a unanimous increase that in 2010 said no to these automatic renewals. As far as sport is concerned, I hope that they do their job, and that they also exchange information, both with each other – they can – and with other countries – they can.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3345	The cord shift has therefore been completed. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3364	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3381	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, there will be up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3388	I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee on this representative proposal from the Red. The majority suggest that the proposal is not adopted, while a minority consider that the government should use a different interpretation of the request decision. I expect that they themselves explain their position. To the case: in the request decision No. 182 of 12 December 2017 it was decided to set up a public sample to identify the cash flows of publicly funded welfare services. The Committee shall propose solutions to ensure that public funds go as far as possible to the production of actual well-being and to prevent undesirable tax adaptation in companies mainly financed by public funds. The government dropped the sample that took the name of the welfare service committee in September 2018. The committee was given a comprehensive mandate. The Welfare Service Committee addressed the Ministry and asked for a clarification of its mandate. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries then sent a letter to the other departments of the Secretariat of the Welfare Service Committee and asked for input to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries' proposal for a understanding of the mandate. The Ministry’s reply was sent to the sample leader on 15 September 2020. Here the Ministry asked that the understanding of the majority of the sample be used. The majority understood that the sample should take the view that it was desirable to use private operators to provide welfare services and that they should assess how the use of private services could be made more efficient. The representative understands that the mandate is a wrong interpretation of the decision and believes that the mandate limits the work of the committee. Both the Council of State and the majority of the Committee consider that the committee has been given a broad mandate, in line with the request decision. In addition to comprehensive monitoring of cash flows, the mandate states that the government is committed to ensuring good quality of service and that the investigation includes an assessment of the quality of welfare services. Furthermore, the mandate states that the sample is free to answer the questions it considers appropriate and necessary in the course of its work. This means that understanding of the mandate does not prevent the sample from assessing issues which the sample wishes or considers to be professionally correct based on its assessments. The Welfare Service Committee presented its report on 1 December 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3401	In December 2017, the Stortinget decided to reduce a public sample to identify cash flows in publicly funded welfare services. The so-called Welfare Service Committee was established in the autumn of 2018. Correspondence between the Secretariat of the Welfare Service Committee and the Government shows that there has been disagreement in the sample on how to interpret the mandate, and the draft representative we are debating here today is about whether the government has interpreted away the political context in which the decision has been taken. The centre party indicates that there was only disagreement in the sample on the understanding of the mandate. The disagreement was whether the sample should consider how the use of private operators to provide welfare services could be organised or whether the sample should also decide whether private operators should be used at all. As we read the letter of reply from the Council of State, the mandate was interpreted in practice so that no opening was given to assess the actual use of private suppliers. The central party therefore supports the opinion of the proposer and believes that the government, through its reply letter to the welfare service committee, has provided the sample with an inquiry that does not fully respond to the order contained in the 2017 request decision. The decision was that the sample should propose solutions to ensure that public funds go as far as possible to actual well-being. Such a selection must therefore respond to how we ensure that public funds do not go to dividends. The Central Party therefore considers that the welfare service committee in its report does not fully comply with the Stortingen request decision, and therefore asks the Government to ensure that the December 2017 request decision is followed up in line with the original Stortingen decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3412	Will the representative Adelsten Iversen address the proposal of which the Central Party is part?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3417	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3422	The representative of Geir Adelsten Iversen has then drawn up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3427	The matter we are dealing with now needs to be seen as a clear reversal of what was initially a clear mandate. It is a fact that a majority of the welfare services committee perceives that the sample should take the view that it is desirable to use private operators and that they should only assess how the use of private services can be made as effective as possible. There are some very important dividing lines in Norwegian policy, and the use of private actors is one of them. There are those who believe that the state alone can solve all social problems. This is wrong, and the conclusion of the error could have dramatic consequences if it were to be the basis of political decisions as demographic developments in Norway become an increasing burden on public health and welfare services. Norway has and will continue to have sound public welfare services, but as a Christian People's Party representative, I think it is necessary to point out that private does not necessarily mean large players with huge economies of scale and a goal of generating profit. No, private initiatives can be the local community nursery which provides protection and a good framework for socialisation and learning for Norwegian children every day. Or it may be nursing homes that make sure that older people can live their lives within safe limits when they can no longer live at home, and that provide a worthwhile end when time on earth is over. The first inhabitants of society built from below. There may be incredible things happening when people see societal challenges in their community and decide to solve them together. Parts of Oslo in the early 1900s were characterized by unemployment, distress and alcoholism. The five-year-old took care of the three-year-old. Although the sisters took care of many of the children in the daytime, many were not picked up through the afternoon. How could one make sure that these children were cared for and were safe 24 hours a day? One of the answers was Heggeli Children's Home in Oslo. This orphanage is being run that day, now by the Church's Bymission. The children’s home provides security, stability and new opportunities in life for children who have experienced defeat, betrayal and pain. Private non-profit initiatives that were lifted over 100 years ago are in operation today. The ideal actors also deserve that we as politicians have our eyes on them. The debate on private and public solutions needs to be raised to something more than an old line of conflict between the right and the left. That's also exactly why I'm so happy that a minority in the welfare service committee, on page 522 of the investigation, expresses the following: ‘The minority is of the opinion that the social objectives of non-profit actors and the absence of the possibility of taking profits out of the business provide a basis for a greater degree of trust-based governance. [[...]] This means that management costs are lower using ideal actors. Therefore, there may be grounds for increased use of non-profit actors rather than commercial, in particular by complex services.’;» Societal challenges Norway faces in the years and decades to come are great — yes, too great if the challenges are to be solved only through public service provision. We need a diversity of actors in Norway today, and the ideals are often the small players who can still make a big difference to the Nordics.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3447	There have been a number of revelations that money to go to common well-being has ended up a private profit for large companies. This calls for political action, but it was highly reluctant that the government reduced the sample to ‘propose solutions to ensure that public funds go as far as possible to the production of actual well-being’, as the Storting decided. In the course of the process, the government has tried to narrow the scope of the selection by notifying them that the selection ‘must assume that it is desirable to use private operators to provide welfare services’. It wasn't Storting's order. On the other hand, it is an order from civil parties with privatisation pads welded firmly to the tin. In the report, the minority of the sample writes the following: ‘If, on a professional basis, it is considered that it is not possible to make good use of the private sector in a given sector, then, in our opinion, the obvious recommendation is that private use should not be used. The role of an expert committee should precisely be to advise independently of the policy leaders in the field at all times.’.» It is an understanding that is definitely more in line with the Storting decision. Then there are several interesting findings in the welfare service committee report. We have not yet been given an overview of the cash flows because commercial groups are mistaking how tax money allocated to well-being ends up as private profit. There is no information on where all the public welfare funds are finally at port. They do not have data to ensure that private profits do not go at the expense of quality, nor do they have data to support private actually further develop the service content. In other words, we do not know whether commercial operators have anything positive to contribute. We don't know where it's going to be of all the money. But we know that many of our welfare services have become ‘big business’ for large groups of domestic and also for non-resident purchasing and pension funds. There are many of the citizens' tax money, which should have gone to the best possible offer for vulnerable child-rescue children, nurturing elderly or small roles in kindergarten. This confirms the importance of having a new majority for the harvest with the strongest possible Red, which can push for the prevention of profit from well-being, so that the money goes to the best possible well-being both in public and private non-profit-making terms, but not in commercial welfare profit-making.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3465	The Welfare Service Committee was set up to identify cash flows in publicly funded services. The mandate of the committee was broad, and it had great freedom to define for itself which areas to focus on. Part of the mission was to propose solutions that could ensure that public funds go as far as possible to the production of actual well-being. There has never been any doubt that Storting’s request decision to map out cash flows should be followed up, and that we want advice on how to get more well-being per penny spent. On the other hand, there was internal disagreement about the understanding of the mandate in the sample, and the committee asked for the department's assessment. Last September, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries confirmed the majority’s understanding that they should take the view that it is desirable to use private actors and that they should assess how the use of private actors can be made more effective. I believe such an understanding is in line with the Storting's request decision. In addition, the mandate indicated that the sample was free to discuss the issues which they themselves found appropriate and necessary to address during their work. The report of the Welfare Service Committee was presented on 1 December last year, and it appears that the minority is recommending it in line with the minority’s understanding of the mandate. It supports the fact that the Board’s understanding of the mandate has not prevented them from assessing the questions they themselves want or from recommending what they thought was professionally appropriate. Based on its findings, the sample has made various proposals. In my opinion, the report responds well to the Stortingen request decision. The report of the committee is now being consulted, and once the hearing has been concluded and all the recordings have been recorded, the government will follow up the recommendations as usual, including the follow-up of responsible departments and state councils to matters under their respective professional and responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3476	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3482	The size decided to provide a sample which could propose solutions that could maximise public resources for the production of actual well-being. That was the background for the work. The backbone of this was the revelations of large dividends in the welfare of private profit. We see that the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, who was the Vice-Chairman of the Committee when the matter was discussed and the decision was taken, commented on a letter from the Department of the Class Struggle and said that the Department's interpretation "does not depend on the starting point of the decision". He went on to say: "I hope the government asks for an answer to what we were actually asking questions about. The selection must respond to how we ensure that public funds do not go to dividends. That was the starting point for the whole discussion in Stortinget." Does the Council of State see that taking money out for dividends and profit is anything but the production of actual well-being, which the Storting decided to look at?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3492	The majority took a request decision, and it reads as follows – it is in fact stated in the representative’s proposal: ‘The government asks the government to set up a public body to identify cash flows in publicly funded welfare services, including trade between related persons, use of tax havens, thin capitalisation and dividends. The Committee shall propose solutions to ensure that public funds go as far as possible to the production of actual well-being and to prevent unwanted tax adaptation in companies that are mainly financed by public funds.’.» I believe that the sample – with the understanding the sample has provided – has done what the Storting really asked for. After reading the Committee's position, I see that the representative does not get a majority in favour of his proposal. So I guess you have to say that there's a good job done from the sample that's been reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3502	It's not surprising that the bourgeois majority agrees with civil policy, the surprising thing is that we have a government that instructs a selection to operate on the edge of what was ordered in the decision to roll. The size has asked for work to ensure solutions to ensure that public funds go as far as possible to the production of actual well-being, and the background to the decision is evidence that large sums are being extracted – away from well-being – for private profit. Then it is obvious that when the government will refuse to look at the degree of commercial use, there is a narrowing in contrast to what the Storing has decided. So I repeat the question: does Nybø see that taking money out of the welfare of private enrichment is anything but the production of actual well-being?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3507	I have to say that I'm reacting a little to the vocabulary the representative here is showing, because it's not at all in line with what's real. Using words like the ministry has ‘instructed’ the sample is not at all representative of what actually happened, and which I have also explained. The committee contacted the Ministry of Food and Fisheries because they disagreed on how this was to be interpreted and asked us to assess what they were going to pay attention to. The minority has subsequently chosen to propose not to use private actors on, for example: parts of the child protection area, so I think first of all that it must be quite clear that we have not instructed any selection. We have responded to an enquiry we have received. Secondly, the committee itself has had the freedom — and they have also taken advantage of that freedom — to present the proposals that they themselves consider to be a professional right to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3514	I'm going to avoid letting the Council of State hang up in one particular concept, as a derailment of the debate, which may be conscious of the Council of State – who knows? I will repeat the question, which should be easy to answer, also for a Left State Council: the background to the decision in the Storting is the revelation that large sums are taken out – taken away from child protection, taken away from the care of the elderly, removed from the welfare. Our tax money disappears out of the welfare of private enrichment. Does the Council of State see taking money out of well-being — for private enrichment — as anything other than the actual production of well-being? It should be possible to give an answer to that for a responsible state council rather than resort to various excursions. For the third time, does the Council see the difference? Does she have any view of just profit in well-being?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3521	It is clear that I have to correct that practice, precisely because it is part of the derailment of this debate. This debate can be about: Should we have private actors in welfare, or should we not have private actors in welfare? It is an interesting debate, and the government and the party Red are probably on different sides of that debate. I believe that private, both ideal and to the extent private, can be an important and good part of what is involved in the provision of services. It's clear that if you're going to have a private deposit, you also have to make sure that money goes to the owners to a certain extent, if not, it's worth putting the money in the bank. These are people who spend their money -- go in at their risk -- to drive well-being. But I'm glad that the sample hasn't found that there's a great deal of superprofit in the welfare services sectors, although they can't rule out more returns being realised in addition to normal returns in some cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3528	The President believes that the matter is well clarified and that we shall close the debate. Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3549	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3554	We are going to consider a draft representative on food labelling, and there are several proposals ahead of us on the table. Proper labelling is important to ensure good consumer information, so that individuals can make informed choices and not least be confident about what food is actually ahead of them. Today's regulations focus, inter alia, on: that the food information is not misleading. This means that there is no doubt about information such as nature, identity, characteristics, composition, quantity, durability, origin or mode of production. This requirement applies to the labelling of the product itself, to posters and to price labelling at the store or online. In the development of food labelling legislation, it has been important to ensure a good balance between requirements that are necessary for consumers and requirements that are proportionate. And here it is necessary to consider what is practical and economically feasible to obtain evidence. It is also that some of the labelling is mandatory, and something is voluntary. The Norwegian legislation on food information is mainly harmonised with the EU and the Food Information Regulation is central. Something has also been included in the EEA Agreement, and it is not. However, some are part of the legal acts of the Common Agricultural and Fisheries Policy. There has been a steady development of legislation to strengthen health and consumer concerns, and last year work was started in the European Commission through the Farm to Fork strategy, for sustainable food systems. The actions of the strategy focus on the easy-to-understand, nutritional, more precise labelling of origin and the labelling of the sustainability of the food. There is good reason to believe that, among other things. the labelling of origin of milk and meat in processed products will be tightened. We actively support the development of this legislation in the EU, as we believe that we are the best successful when we see food labelling in the context of what is happening in the EU. We are also obliged to do so. The EU is very offensive, and Norway is going to go in actively to influence it. Then it is good that we debate the labelling of food, because it draws attention to the importance of this, and it sharpens the daily food trade, importers and others who handle food labelling. There is also something to follow up on the legislation we actually have, which is not bad. The majority suggest that the proposal is not adopted, but the government will work actively with changes through channels to the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3571	In recent times, we have seen several examples of labelling that have been either faulty or totally deficient. It's tomatoes from other countries that are sold under the Norwegian flag, and it's people's meat, which is sold without us as consumers actually having a real chance to know where the meat comes from. In other words, as consumers, we get meat with a much higher antibiotic content than the meat we normally eat in Norway, i.e. a product with much lower quality, for which we may pay the same price – lower quality at the same price. It's about lack of labelling. Therefore, it is quite obvious that improvements are needed, so that as consumers we can actually make informed choices and be sure that we know where the food comes from. But in this case, we see that the right parties are more concerned with the growing profit margins of the daily food barons than that we as consumers should know where the food comes from. The best ones on origin labelling are the Vinmonopolet. That's why the red-green side – and the Progress Party until they jumped off in the turn – has been clear that we need to learn from the best in the field, and that's the Wine Monopoly. You can go in there and easily know where the products come from. You can imagine that it would have been a scandal if the wine monopoly had done what, among other things. The Norway group and mislabelled a product. Let's say they had sold a cheap wine from Germany and pretended it was a quality wine from France. There had been a raffle in the evening post, in today's business and in many wine slits in the quite national media. The food is obviously equally important, but here the right parts fail. They are more concerned with the wallet of the daily food barons than with the labelling of origin for us as consumers. On this basis, I would like to make good suggestions, of which the Workers' Party is part. This confirms again that we need a new growth rate for justice for people, in order for manufacturers to be able to offer us quality products, and for us to know what we are buying at the store. These are proposals such as: will ensure the labelling of antibiotic consumption, which is a health issue, and there are proposals that will ensure that both the restaurant and wholesale markets will provide us with better information such as consumers and guests. This is good industrial policy and good health policy to provide information on choices for the population. As I said, I would like to address the proposals of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3584	Then the representative Nils Kristen Sandtrøen has drawn up the proposals of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3589	According to the rhetoric of the Workers' Party, it is clear that in this room there are at least some lots that have a little more confidence in the consumer than others. We can all agree that the food we buy at the store should be well labelled, so that consumers know what they are buying. Consumers shall be able to make informed choices. So the question is, what kind of marking are we going to have? What is it important for the consumer to know about this product? These include: important for the consumer to know what the content of the product is, the durability, who is the producer and where the product comes from. This is already mandatory today and there is also a requirement that labelling should not mislead the consumer. In the context of the review of the food notification, the entire Committee agreed that better labelling of the origin of the chain's own brands should be ensured and that a better distinction should be made between the chain's brands and independent brands. Own brands shall also be more clearly marked with the manufacturer and the country of origin of the manufacturer. All of this is reasonable for the consumer to know when to buy the product. However, the proposal from the Central Party goes much further. This includes the following: prohibiting the sale of imported meat, milk, fruit and vegetables products in the same type of packaging as Norwegian products. The intention is certainly good, and it is believed that this will cause more consumers to choose Norwegian-produced goods and thus support them under Norwegian business. But as I read the proposal, it is a distrust statement for the intelligence of consumers most. If the consumer is able to read and have useful views, he or she may in fact receive this information with the proposals already adopted regarding labelling. The centre party believes that it is not good enough, and wants special packaging, so that the consumer will not be harmed to choose anything other than Norwegian. It's simply too dry. That is why I refer to the comment I made on behalf of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture on this matter. It is very important to stress that this is a proposal that the Progress Party does not support.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3602	When I, as a consumer-political spokesperson, took part in promoting this proposal, I didn't think that a lot of parties would be against ensuring better labelling. Essential aspects such as the country of origin and the use of antibiotics are, of course, knowledge of foodstuffs which the consumer should definitely receive, not least after it has been found in several contexts that some labelling is deficient and also directly incorrect, as the Sandtrøen representative had in mind. It is therefore disappointing for consumers and for our public health, but also for our fisheries and agricultural industries, that the government parties – together with the Progress Party, suddenly, as at the end – vote for our proposals. The Norwegian food market is the basis for large value creation and many jobs in Norway, but the trend is towards larger imports and other countries in different trade agreements are constantly being granted quotas to export, for example. meat and dairy products for Norway. If we had received a majority in favour of the proposal for the use of different packaging on Norwegian versus imported products, it could reduce the risk of confusion, but also definitely build up under Norwegian products. According to the Consumer Council, many countries of origin want food products, and fortunately, Norwegian products are increasingly being chosen to contribute to value creation in Norway, for the sake of quality and animal welfare, and because of course they want products produced with little use of antibiotics. In this case, it is relevant to, for example: Germany operates with a total of 89 milligrams of antibiotics per kilogram of meat, while the Norwegian farmer ensures that meat produced here on land only has 3.1 milligrams per kilogram. I believe that getting knowledge about the use of antibiotics in food production is something that will really make the consumer want Norwegian food. It is therefore disappointing that the government will not participate in the labelling of the quantity of antibiotics used in the production of specific products on the packaging. Rather, the Council of State Höie corresponds to the Committee's view that it is more appropriate to sit and wait for the EU to work on a new regulatory framework in this area. Are we really going to sit here and wait for the work of the European Union? Shouldn't Norway go ahead in this area? Shouldn't we, who have the safest food, have the strictest rules and also give Norwegian food production a competitive advantage? In the recently processed daily food notification, an overall nutrition committee agreed on better food labelling on behalf of the consumer, since of the food chain’s own brands, both in order to improve the labelling of origin of the producer and the country of origin of the products, and that food surveillance should cooperate with the industry on a common labelling system that better distinguishes the chain’s own brands from independent brands. The centre party is attending this work, not least with the marking of origin, and even though, unfortunately, the government parties and the Progress Party will not be as clear about the labelling of food products, in the consideration of the proposal for a representative we are debating in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3615	This case is personal to me. Without antibiotics, I would never have been here today. But thanks to antibiotics, I can now go, talk and write well enough. Antibiotic resistance is called the health sector’s climate crisis. Every year, 750,000 people die as a result of antibiotic resistance. Forecasts show that worldwide, 10 million people will die annually from antibiotic-resistant bacteria from 2050. Without effective antibiotics, much of the health sector will disappear. Worldwide, we use antibiotics more for meat cultivation than for sick people who need them. The antibiotic resistance infects animals into humans. Therefore, we need to use less antibiotics for meat production. Norway is one of the best in the class of minimising the use of antibiotics. But we're importing meat from other countries that uses a lot more antibiotics. When we buy meat from them, we help this industry that can destroy the only medicine we have to treat bacteria. I'm very concerned that anyone who needs antibiotic treatment will not get it. I've got the help, but many won't get it if we don't change the policy. I have sent several questions to the Minister of Agriculture and to the government about this and have proposed that we stop the import of meat. But I understand that we cannot do so under EEA law. Then we have a proposal B: labelling antibiotics during the production of meat and milk products. Then people can choose away these very dangerous products, which can destroy the entire health system we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3626	Norwegian agriculture produces food, creates jobs, contributes to self-sufficiency and has an essential role in rural policy. The hamstring in the first days of the pandemic in March 2020 must be seen as an expression that many Northmen became anxious that there would not be enough food available. The consequences of the closure during the pandemic have made the population aware that having a robust value chain for food based on domestic production is not a matter of course. Norwegian consumers are concerned about how to use their consumer power, and the production of local raw materials and short-term food is a contribution to tackling the climate crisis. Many Nordics are concerned about local producers and actors, and it is therefore important to facilitate informed choices for consumers. There is today a requirement that food information and labelling should not be misleading. This requirement applies to the nature, identity, characteristics, composition, quantity, durability, origin or mode of production, which is a requirement for both mandatory and voluntary labelling. Through the development and implementation of EU law, consumer law has also gained a stronger position in Norwegian law. In 2020, the EU Farm to Fork strategy was presented, where food information is a key element of the strategy, and the EU recognises the need for more easily understood nutrition labelling and the development of the EU legal framework to enable consumers to make sustainable food choices. New measures related to the labelling of origin are under investigation in the EU, and the government believes it is vital that Norway is active in and affects the development of such rules. The national origin marking should therefore be applied for in a harmonised manner with the work in progress in the EU. However, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV are in a hurry and therefore propose a labelling with the country of origin for groceries, as practised by the Vinmonopolet. Now it may not be on the Wine Monopoly that the undersigned has spent the most hours in his life, but I find it nevertheless timely to attach some practical challenges to the majority today's adoption. It is relatively easy to mark the country of origin of products with few ingredients, such as wine. In the retail trade, we find more complex and complex products. Although the investigation section has concluded that there are no rules to prevent a similar scheme, a question may arise as to whether the proposers have thought through the practical consequences. In the summer months there are usually salads for sale from Røyse or Lier, but in winter they may come from Spain or Italy. Should the shopkeepers continually adjust the flags? And what about products that have many ingredients from several countries? In a finished pizza, the ham may come from Italy, the tomatoes from Spain and the wheat in the pizza sauce from Poland. Does the majority want all these countries to be reported, and can it not be appropriate in that case to confuse more than to clarify? We are all concerned that the consumer should be able to make informed and informed choices, and I share the intention behind the proposal. But to me, this appears to be an hasty solution in the pursuit of symbolic policies, rather than an investigation of how this could have been done properly, and to await the EU investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3643	I had no suspicion that the representative Steinar Reiten frequented the wine monopoly so much, but I think it was quite elucidating. Otherwise I have to say something about the detail of this. It is now 14 days since we had the daily message for treatment in this room. Then many of these things got black out. I'm also very concerned about antibiotic resistance and what's around it. But I think that through cooperation we fight it in the best possible way without having specific rules for each country. Through the cooperation that lies there, which is also pointed out by several speakers here, I think the possibility is greater to combat this than it is through the fact that we necessarily have the detailed wealth that more people have talked about here. Then I'll be in a little bit of a hurry. The representative Sand Tread mentions folk meat. What's folk meat? I thought there was beef and small meat in Norway. People's meat was a little unknown to me, but now let it go. We're concerned about where the meat comes from. The labelling on the products here in Norway is clear to me, and we also made it clear through the daily food notification in the previous round. Then I'll be a little stunned over the same Sand Throat. He may be better informed about what kind of wine is drinking, but I thought the German Riesling was useful. Based on the representative Sandtrøen, I am told that wine from Germany is obviously not of sustainable quality. I think there are a lot of claims here. The main features here must be that the consumer makes the reasonable choices. It's up to the consumer to do it. We can't have a detailed country, a detailed country that's supposed to point out what he can eat. The state of detail thought we had left too many, many years ago in this country. Maybe we had a round of it right after the war, then maybe it was the monoculture that existed in this country, but the detailed state I don't think any of us want to go back to. It's obvious – antibiotic resistance is important. Through the job done by the government, I think we are also getting closer to fighting it than through the representative proposal that is ahead of us today. Otherwise, I would have thought that those who took part in the debate had read the answer to the Council of State, which comes with a clear passage about that particular subject, but it is clearly not done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3662	The government is concerned that we should have good consumer information and proper labelling of food. The regulatory framework shall ensure that consumers are provided with necessary and correct information to enable them to make informed and sound choices and to use the food safely. The legislation lays down both the mandatory information and the conditions under which information may be provided on a voluntary basis. Information shall not be misleading as to the nature, identity, characteristics, composition, quantity, durability, origin or mode of production of the food. The Norwegian legislation on food information is largely harmonised with the EU legislation through the Food Information Regulation, which was implemented in Norwegian law by the Food Information Regulation. This common legislation is important for consumers, food producers and trade. Continued strengthening of this legislation forms an important part of the initiative presented by the European Commission in May 2020 in the Farm to Fork Sustainable Food Systems Strategy. I can mention more easily understood nutrition labelling and more consistent and clearer date marking. The strategy also provides a more accurate indication of the origin of certain foodstuffs. The speaking time does not allow all five suggestions to be mentioned. As regards proposal No: 2 on antibiotic consumption, I would like to stress that I agree with the proposers that the fight against antibiotic resistance is important in both human medicine and food production. I believe that the fight against antibiotic resistance can be less addressed by labelling requirements for individual foods, but rather by preventive health measures in livestock and aquaculture and strict restrictions on the use of antibiotics. Another proposal concerns the labelling of origin of processed food. The Food Information Regulation clearly limits the requirements for mandatory labelling that Member States may adopt on a national basis. Due to these limitations and the process in progress in the EU, I do not think it is appropriate to draw up national rules now. The food market is international. Norway is both a major importer and a major exporter of food. The government supports the development of a strengthened common EU legislation. At the same time, this common legislation limits the right to adopt its own special Norwegian rules. The Global Standard for the Labelling of Prepacked Foods adopted by FAO and WHO, Codex Alimentarius, also provides frameworks for both the EU and Norway. These constraints must be taken into account when we evaluate strange rules. Fair and clear labelling legislation shall ensure a high level of protection of health and consumer interests, while providing operators in food chains with equal and predictable conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3684	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3689	It's the people's meat you can buy from Kiwi, among other things, and the Norway Group. The people's meat sounds quite nice and harmless, and it sounds Norwegian. That is probably the point, too, that it should be heard in Norwegian that you buy the meat of the people, but the problem is that this meat, as mentioned, often has much higher levels of antibiotics and comes from completely different types of production, with lower requirements for both medicine and animal welfare standards than we are used to in our own agriculture. So what I'm asking is whether the Minister of Health can answer: does the Minister of Health think that so many consumers would choose the meat of the people, with higher antibiotic content, if the consumer were aware of what he or she bought at the store?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3696	Yes, it was good that it was not folk meat, because then I don't think many consumers had bought it. What's right is to say, if the marketing is misleading, that is, if those who have control and responsibility for this would think that a Norwegian consumer here is misleading to believe that this is Norwegian meat, he has the opportunity to react to it. So I think the Norwegian population in general has found that there is a higher consumption of antibiotics in animal production and food production abroad than it is in Norway. It also provides a good basis for the individual to make wise choices. Very many of the meat products in the store that are of Norwegian origin are also clearly labelled with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3705	It's quite true that many people have brought it in Norway, and that's why I think it's a deliberate choice that you call it people's meat, but not necessarily information that it comes from completely different places. So to the best in the class of just origin marking. It is an enterprise owned by the Ministry of Health and Welfare and for which the Minister of Health is responsible, and it is the Vinmonopolet. Some reason why so many in Norway are so supportive of the alcohol policy we have, which balances several considerations, is the customer satisfaction of the Vinmonopolet. It's a little interesting to listen to the representative from the Left, because I think the representative has misunderstood when he's talking about a single country, because the monopoly of wine is precisely the ones that offer diversity, and the consumer knows what he or she buys. Would it not have been good service to the consumer that there is as good customer information on food as it is at the Vinmonopolet?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3714	I think that the wine monopoly is doing an excellent job, and as the person representing the ownership of the wine monopoly, I'm extra proud of the job they're doing. But it's probably the case that in the case of the products sold there, there are completely different conditions for marking the country of origin, because these are products that come from one place in their nature and there are specific rules on the indication of origin and labelling of those products. If one goes into a grocery store and trades products there – unless one only trades food in small, exclusive delicacies – one will experience that the food a buyer often has a mixed origin. Not least, it is about some of the products most people in Norway use. For example, jam produced in Norway is often produced from berries imported from Poland. It's a completely different situation than that of these French wines that the representative is obviously very familiar with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3721	It is true that there are some food products that have been processed, but what has been behind this debate is among other things. Tomatoes and meat, and these are pure products. In the proposal that we are on the red-green side here today, it says that we are asking the government to come back with proposals for a type of labelling scheme, so it is implicit in the proposal that the government should have the opportunity to find out what products this could be for. Does the Minister of Health agree that the type of labelling could function on perfectly clean foods, such as: on tomatoes and meat?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3728	Yes, and it is also most available. I'm not just concerned that the tomatoes are produced in Norway, I'm even concerned that the tomatoes are produced in Rogaland, so when I go to the grocery store, I'm not just looking for the Norwegian flag of the tomatoes, but I'm also reading if they're produced in Ryfylke before I buy them. So it's fully possible, but one has to do it within the law that is. It is fully possible within the regulatory framework we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3733	At the same time, there is a concern about antibiotic resistance – but we have to wait for the EU, because they have a structure, probably, which will ensure that we will notice better with regard to antibiotic resistance. So, is the Council of State saying that Norwegian consumers are being given sufficient information now about the food we eat, through the labelling requirements we have today regarding antibiotic resistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3744	I have not said in any way that the labelling related to antibiotic resistance is good enough. That's not the question. The question was what is possible in this area, and I have answered that. So the question is, how are we going to fight antibiotic resistance? I am one of the ten health ministers in the world who took the initiative to lift the fight against antibiotic resistance on the international arena. It's going to be a high-level theme at the United Nations in New York. It was precisely because in the fight against antibiotic resistance we needed to raise this as a cross-sectoral work, which is not just about health, and which is not just about food, and that it came to the heads of state. We're not going to be able to fight antibiotic resistance on a cross-border basis. We need to combat antibiotic resistance through international work, and Norway is pushing for international regulation and legislation that reduces the use of antibiotics, including in food products, but then we have to do it through international legislation and cooperation, and not across borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3751	So what the Council of State says here now is that we should wait and wait and not deal with this problem, either for our own consumers or for public health, and rather think about the value creation and competitive advantage it would give if we were much clearer in packaging and branding. How long does the Council of State think that we can wait to see more clearly the labelling of antibiotics in our food before he intends to do more than he obviously intends to do now?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3757	That's the opposite of waiting, what I said to the representative. Norway is an international driver in reducing the use of antibiotics both in health care, in food and in nature. But the central party's approach to this will mean that we will not succeed in this work, because we are not going to be able to combat antibiotic resistance on a cross-border basis. Antibiotic resistance is being combated internationally. Antibiotic resistance, as the representative of SV pointed out, is the climate challenge of healthcare. That means we have to act nationally, and it does Norway, both in health, in food and in the environment, but then we have to work on this internationally, through international agreements and legislation. It's the only way we can succeed in this work, and in that context, a food label, which also appears to be very difficult and complicated, is not really what helps to solve such a big problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3762	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3769	We agree in this room that food labelling is important, and that we will work for improvements to, for example, origin marking. What we don't agree on is the extent to which we are going to burden the local merchant in this work. I react especially to the last proposal, to mark the origin of the food with flags on the shelf edge, like on the wine monopoly. I've tried as best as I can to imagine how this is going to happen in practice, with all the thousands of different groceries in the grocery trade. I've imagined a French department, an Israeli department and a Spanish department of fruit and greenery. It's pretty impractical. And the cost of such a system I almost dare not imagine. With all due respect – I may have misunderstood this proposal, but then I have to be explained how this should be done in practice. The proposal states correctly that the system should correspond to: «the consumer-friendly and clear indication of origin used in the wine monopoly». This is hardly feasible and the proposal may result in more expenditure on the retail trade. It will not contribute to a lower price for the consumer. This proposal reflects the zeal of both the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties for detailed management, which contribute to more bureaucracy for business. There is no need for this type of action in the Norwegian business community.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3785	I really didn't intend to take the floor in the debate, but I thought it was a little too interesting anyway. Because it's all about: Is it easy for the customer as it is today? If you think it's easy to go to the store and find out what you're doing, and what you're actually buying, that's all right. But that's not it. It's kind of complicated to know. I may not be intelligent enough – as the Progress Party talks about, about intelligent customers – or it may be that we are too eager to impose some bureaucracy on the shops. This is not about the local merchant on the corner. Every buyer knows exactly what they have in their store, down in detail. It's completely possible to make systems that are better than what is today, if you want to. There is no doubt that informed customers are customers with far more power than uninformed customers. Today, too many uninformed customers go through the store and bring goods they do not know what is. For example, the People's, who have been dragged forward here several times, what is it? What's that? At least it's not folk meat. No, it is a product of its own brand; it is ‘a wide-ranging meat brand with both traditional, innovative, Norwegian and imported meat products’. What is it? It is not good to inform yourself as a consumer and customer at the time. The question in this case and in the case we had about groceries is whether we want to give customers more power to make conscious, good, safe choices. I'm impressed by the wine monopoly's marking, me. I do not think there is any bureaucracy that someone has imposed on the Vinmonopole either. It's actually a pretty informative trip to go through the shelves and read what's on the shelves about what's in the shelves. If we could get something similar for groceries, would it have been an advantage for the customer, or would it have been a disadvantage for the customer? It would have been a great advantage for the customer to have such information as one should go shopping. But the right is not concerned with the customer. They are concerned about – and they clearly state – that this can be red tape. I think we should simplify the everyday life of customers and consumers, so that they can make informed choices, instead of covering us up behind – what we should say – a little such wanted excuses not to try to go further on something that is quite essential, and there is just better food labelling in the shops.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3798	If it's the customer who's in focus, it might be useful to be a little bit more despicable in his argument from this pulpit. In several cases in today's debate, The representative Sandrøen said something more or less: Norwegian consumers may have bought meat with a much higher antibiotic content than Norwegian meat, and he asked the Council of State about this at the latest in the reply debate. But that's wrong, because there's a difference between what we're really discussing here today: antibiotic use in the actual production of meat, and the antibiotic content in the meat that's being sold. Here I would ask him to correct, for this is perceived by Norwegian consumers as having bought meat with a large antibiotic content. They haven't. It is the same limit values that apply wherever the meat comes from. According to Catherine Signe Svindland of the Department of Hygiene and Drinking Water of the Food Authority, no breach of the limit values for meat has been recorded in any country during the last seven years. I think it is important to market Norwegian meat and Norwegian producers. We will agree on that, but I think it is also important not to scare Norwegian consumers more than necessary. We may distance ourselves from the use of antibiotics in the animal husbandry itself, but we may not present it as if the meat in the dish is unsafe and has a high antibiotic content, because then we criticize the Norwegian Food Authority and the control of food products in Norwegian shops. It's something completely different. If it is possible that there is a much higher antibiotic content, and you have broken the limit values, you will see which cases there are where you have such fractures. The Food Authority has not found them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3809	The next speaker is the representative of Kårstein Eidem Løvaas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3818	That's what the president was waiting for, yeah, a little change of jacket.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3823	Thank God we're in the same cohort. There is a political focus on the daily food industry. [[Laughter]] It's been growing over a quite long period, and it's very good. So I want to suggest, even though it might be a bit cliché, that the proposers have taken a little bit of Møller's tran, a product that is otherwise marked with MSC, the Marine Stewardship Council, which is the eco-label for fish and seafood, plus a Norwegian flag. That's what this is about -- informed choices. Only in the grocery store do you meet dozens of brands, and if you just focus on what we eat, there are 15 different brands in the food business. It's the Keyhole, it's the Bread Scale, it's Crossed Grain, it's Debio, it's called MSC, it's Rainforest Alliance, Fairtrade, the Swedish Ökomerket KRAV, the Danish Ökomerket State Controlled Organic, recommended by LHL, Speciality Unique Taste, protected designation of origin, New Norway – which otherwise allows up to 25 p.m. foreign products involved – The Animal Health Mark and UTZ Certified. There's only 15 pieces on food, so it's not necessarily that further labelling will make it easier for the consumer. It is also the case that some of the descriptions we have heard from the pulpit today relate to products that are already labelled. It said so, for example. Germany as the country of origin of the meat dough of the people, which has been mentioned here several times. So I'll say a little bit about the suggestions. The same type of packaging shall be prohibited for foreign and Norwegian products. This means that apple juice from Denmark or Germany can no longer be tapped on cardboard cartons. The gouda cheese can no longer get into the wax cheese wheel that it has been coming for hundreds of years, for it is Jarlsberg who does. Jarlsberg does the same when they sell the jarsberg cheese abroad, and produce it abroad, but it is obviously reserved for Norwegian products to be wrapped in traditional wax wheels. There have been several references to the origin marking. This has been taken care of by the communication, so that proposal is also to go on a rather open door. Several have also referred to proposal No. 5, with flags, like it's on the pole. If you think about it a little bit, it'll be very difficult to organize the spice shelf or the cheese counter. Will the New Norway products have the Norwegian flag? Some of them have 25 pst. foreign commodities. Shall Gastromat stand elsewhere than pepper? And where does the salt come from? Then I have a short comment on a comment text. It says that ‘the marking must be so good that it is impossible to make mistakes’. This must have been written by a frustrated husband who has been told by the wife many times. So we have current arrangements – many of them – we have orders in the just adopted daily food notification, and it is on-going work in the EU/EEA cooperation that takes care of what is desired. I want the proposers to row down with a cup of boiled coffee with a splashed milk with optional fat content from an optional carton – if the coffee latte is inside, then.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3842	I hope it's okay that I use the speaker's chair even if I don't take part in the suit, as the previous speaker did. But I can take the role of frustrated wife, because I often send shopping notes with my husband to the store, and when he's shopping at Menu and I'm going to buy 600 grams of carbon change, I tend to specify on the trade note that he has to choose it from Norway, not from Germany. Because that's how this carbonade dough is in the same shelf. They're side by side, so you actually have to niles what's on the package if you want to be a conscious consumer and figure out which country the meat comes from. So far, so fine with my detailed shopping lists. But then a new product has come from the People's Party, which says that the origin of the meat is Norway and/or Germany. Then it becomes a little harder to be a conscious consumer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3851	I'm going to be very short, I just had to have a little line to the representative Eidem Løvaas, who is really a very good rhetorical, but he's doing the best he can as a rhetorical person, because the conclusion of his rhetorical treminutes should initially be: go home and make it easier for the customer to make consumer-oriented, good choices in the grocery store. That's what it's all about, it's not about you not having the juice on one-litre cartons, whether it's foreign or Norwegian, or how to do it. But one must avoid the situation that is now developing. And how is it? Eidem Løvaas knows perfectly well that a person tries to acquire ordinary brands and manufactures the goods almost identically. If they're Norwegian, foreign, or where they come from, they don't really matter that much, but they try to publish similar products to be like products, which they're not. I think it is bad information work for the customers. If the customer is put in the center, which I also thought the Right was concerned about, then one should take this topic more seriously than making cheap, rhetorical points.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3857	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3876	ALS can be described as an increasingly smaller prison cell. The only thing that the victim knows is that one day the prison cell gets so long that he's going to die. Those who are so unfortunate that they get the diagnosis often have only two to three years to live again – two to three years where the body dies a little every day, two to three years where the sick person gets more and more nurturing, and two to three years where the affected will do almost everything to be together – a little more together – with those in whom they are happy. I have over several years been given insight into the everyday life of those who are hit by serious diagnostics. I've become acquainted with many people who have told me extremely strong stories. One of those I've become acquainted with is Cathrine Nordstrand, a shivering and happy lady who at her best age suddenly got ALS. She is one of those who has really made sure that the ALS has been put on the agenda. She has insisted that ALS-sickness should be seen, heard and given the help they sorely need and deserve. When hit by serious diagnosis, the fight against the disease is already a heavy burden. Unfortunately, several ALS-sick people not only tell about a fight against a serious illness, they also tell about a fight against a rigid health bureaucracy that seems to be ribbed for compassion and humanity. It's not easy to live when you know you're going to die. But we can't have a health bureaucracy that makes it even harder to die than it already is. In Norway, the only medicine available to all ALS patients is Rilutek. It's assumed to be life-long with three to six months. Six months is a long time when you only have a few years left to live. This medicine came on the market in 1995. The development of medicine for the ALS-framed goes incredibly slowly in Norway. This is largely the only medicine that ALS-sick gets here, with the exception of the few that are involved in clinical studies. The United States has gone beyond what we have in Norway. There, ALS-sickness has been given a right to try out medications. Once a medicine has passed the first stage of testing, the diseased test may be the medicine. That's how sick people and their families get a straw straw to grab for. Another person I've met is Nils Arne Morka, who many people know through Lindmo – a former boxer who noticed that something was wrong when he was out on a jog. He's five times Norwegian champion and twice Nordic champion in boxing. Now he doesn't know how long he has left with his kids and the roommate. Nils Arne is willing to try everything to get more time with her loved ones. For which father will leave their children so too soon without having tried everything? It makes an enormous impression to hear the stories of people who just want to live as long as possible, especially when any of what they need, is just a right to try medicine. In Norway, ALS-sickness is met by doctors who are concerned about serious side effects of medicines that have not yet been tested. You can wonder what side effects are worse than dying a little bit every day. The youngest person who has received ALS in Norway was 21 years of age when he was diagnosed. In the United States, we know of a handful of teenagers who have died. The disease can affect everyone — older, middle-aged and young. It's not just ALS patients who hurt need a light that lightes in the dark. I have been contacted, among others. by the Cancer Association, which is very pleased that the debate on ‘right to try’ is being raised. The Cancer Association itself is involved in the debate on the so-called ‘compassionate use’ programme, i.e. a system that will ensure that some very ill patients receive free medicines from the pharmaceutical industry itself, before the medicinal product is formally authorised. In Norway, it seems that some people feel that it is better that no one is given medicine than that someone is given it. It's completely incomprehensible to me. In addition, two years have passed since the Minister of Health himself said that KUPP, knowledge-based update visits, did not work. A little has happened since. I have registered that «right to try» has previously been lifted on Stortinget. At the time, the Minister of Health showed that an expert panel was set up to provide people with serious conditions with a reassessment of their qualifications for treatment. Nevertheless, for example, Cathrine received the depressing message that she had a life expectancy of more than one year and therefore did not qualify for a reassessment of treatment options. To describe this banality, I will use Cathrine's own words: The day I have expected life less than a year, I am most likely completely paralyzed, connected to the respirator and fed through a probe in my stomach. It's not when you're going to try to save my life. That's now I have functions that are worth saving. That's what makes an impression. In addition, the Panel has been criticised for not being able to recommend medicinal products and treatments that have been refused in the Decision Forum on New Methods. This panel of experts is also not the answer to what we should do for those affected by very serious diagnoses, such as ALS. For a very important moment for serious sick people is time, for it is one thing that people who get a death sentence do not have, it is time. Therefore, it is not good enough for the Minister of Health to now point to action plans, schemes that have not been fixed for two years, or expert panel. I fear that the Minister of Health will show that a working group has been set up. It's not good enough either. The last time we discussed ALS in Stortinget, an ALS working group was set up. It was very good, but it is of little help to those who are already affected by this serious disease. The problem with this kind of work is that it would take a couple of years. In addition, it is reasonable to assume that further delays have been made by the Korona. Two years is a lot of time – time that ALS-frames don't have. That is why we must see action now, not new working groups and expert panel. Because while we're putting down these working groups and expert panels, the sick are a little bit more away for every day that goes. It's incomprehensible that it's better that these wither away than that they're allowed to try drugs. I understand that we shall protect ourselves seriously ill for unnecessary suffering, but I must again ask the question: What side effect is worse than dying a little every day? I think most people want to fight for their lives, or the lives of those they're happy with. When there are medical alternatives, those who want them should have them tested out. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for Health, who is the Minister for Health: will the Council of State ensure that Norway learns from the practice in the United States and introduces a ‘right to try’ so that ALS disease and others who have serious diagnoses can light a light in the dark?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3923	ALS is a very serious disease, and I share the representative's commitment to this patient group. There is a need for more knowledge to provide good health care and care for people with ALS. I am also committed to facilitating tried and tested treatment when it is considered to be a proper treatment provision. The Government has launched several measures to strengthen research and to facilitate the testing of treatment relevant to persons with ALS. We want to provide more experimental treatment within predictable frameworks. National expert treatment guide was published in 2019 and is part of the work to provide access to tried and tested treatment to several patients with severe disease. It shall be done in a manner which is safe for the patient and which at the same time has a value in addition to the one patient. As a general rule, trial treatment should be given as a clinical trial. Exceptionally, it may be given to patients on an individual basis. It assumes that certain conditions are met, inter alia: that it has been assessed that the treatment is professionally sound. Professional hygiene is governed by the Health Personnel Act § 4 and the Special Health Service Act § 2-2. Doctors and other health professionals cannot carry out treatments that they consider to be non-professional and that could potentially cause adverse effects to patients, in any worst case leading to death. I have a great deal of understanding that many patients with ALS and their relatives are very disappointed by the lack of effective treatment. For some patients, trial treatment may be an alternative. It assumes that such treatment is available and professionally sound and does not pose an increased risk of significantly worsening the quality of life of the patient. Clinical studies are the most important means of providing patients with new and tried-and-tested treatment. In January, the government presented a national action plan for clinical studies, the first of its kind. The plan applies to the entire service and lasts until 2025. Our vision is that clinical research should become an integral part of all clinical practice and patient treatment. If we're going to reach this vision, we're going to have to make a cultural change in the ministry. As part of such a culture, all patient meetings should be seen as potential sources of knowledge generation and research. The vision requires the overall system – organisation, financial instruments, legislation, authorisation schemes and ICT systems – to facilitate systematic knowledge-building as part of patient treatment. The government has two goals for its work. The first is to contribute to far more patients than today being offered to participate in clinical studies. The second is that the number of clinical studies that recruit patients in hospitals should double during the planning period. Better provision shall also be made for Norwegian patients to participate in clinical studies abroad. This will be important both for people with ALS and for people with other diseases. The first national research centre for clinical treatment is in the field of brain diseases and was established in 2019. This center, Neuro-SysMed, receives 160 million. DKK over an eight-year period in earmarked funds from the Research Council. This will have a major impact on brain health research, and ALS is among the priority conditions. The Ministry also earmarks funds for research through the Norwegian Research Councils and regional health businesses. These funds also finance research on ALS. In 2020, for example, there was an increase in the number of drug users in the EU. through the Programme for Clinical Treatment Research in the Specialist Health Service allocated 18.2 million. kr for a national study, the NO-ALS study, which looks at the effect of two medicinal products on ALS. The study is led by Health Bergen. The aim is to examine whether combination therapy with medicinal products can delay disease development, increase survival and improve the quality of life of ALS. The clinical treatment research programme shall contribute to the provision of multiple patients with participation in trial treatment through such clinical studies. The specialist healthcare panel may help patients with severe life-absorbing disease with a short life expectancy to re-evaluate their treatment options after testing established treatment and no longer having an effect. It may be a matter of finding out, among other things. clinical studies abroad. The expert panel has also exceptionally evaluated some patients, including: a patient with an ALS with life-threatening disease with a life-threatening life expectancy of more than one year and where no treatment offer was available. The Expert Panel was established in November 2018. The representative points to ‘right to try’, which is a system established in several US states. This is a law that allows patients with a very serious disease or disease where all treatment options have been tested and who cannot participate in clinical studies to have access to trial treatment. There are several requirements for which medicinal products may be included in ‘right to try’. It is important to stress that this law does not give patients the right to trial treatment, and similarly, doctors, pharmaceutical companies or insurance companies are not obliged to print, produce or pay for the medicinal products. Medical firms may offer medicinal products as trial treatment, but must cover the costs of treatment. The scheme is derived from the Expanded Access Program, which is similar to the compassionate use programme approved by the State Medicines Agency in Norway. It is important to be aware that, of course, there are major differences between how the Norwegian and US health services are financed, and a direct comparison is therefore difficult. However, following the arrangements of other countries to increase access to trial treatment is part of the follow-up to the government’s objective of testing treatment. Under certain conditions, medicinal products may be prescribed without a Norwegian marketing authorisation. It may be appropriate to provide patients with the best possible health care when there are no medicinal products with a marketing authorisation that meet the medical need, if the patient is unable to participate in ongoing clinical studies, or in situations where the patient is unable to use medicinal products with a marketing authorisation due to adverse reactions or insufficient efficacy. Non-marketing medicinal products may be used through the compassionate use programme or the exemption scheme, if the conditions exist. Both schemes are approved by the National Medicines Agency. In the case of medicinal products which do not have a marketing authorisation in Norway, special responsibility has been given to ensure that their use is safe. I would like to look at both the mandate of the panel of experts, so that this could also include more ALS patients in a previous disease phase where the patient could continue to benefit from any new tried-and-tested treatment, and on the use of the compassionate use programme, so that this together could provide an opportunity for ALS patients that could correspond to the purpose of the right-to-try scheme. The government is concerned that patients with ALS and their relatives experience good quality and consistency in services. The government has strengthened its work in the field of treatment and research on brain diseases. In 2017, we presented a national brain health strategy that provides direction for prevention, health and care services and research. In addition, the Directorate for Health has been given a mandate to propose measures to improve the services of people with ALS. The proposed measures include the preparation of national professional advice on healthcare and up-to-date information and training material on ALS for patients and relatives, employees and decision-makers in the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3946	I would like to thank the Minister of Health for his answer. I have to say that it is rare that I have received such overwhelming feedback when I have promoted an interpellation in the Stortinget. One thing is ALS patients, for which this of course means a lot, but the Cancer Association was also fast on the track and told us how important this is also for cancer patients. What worries me most about increasing differences is the cancer area, because we see that there is now a class distinction between those who have a thick wallet and can buy services in the home and abroad, and those who do not have the opportunity to do so. I think it should bother everyone in this room that we see such a development. It is important that all should be able to have access to the available processes, methods and medicines. I was also contacted by a mother with two children who have the disease Huntington's disease, also for this group this is an important interpellation, and by the National Association for Public Health, on dementia. It's also a deadly disease. There it is seen that Norway is at the back of Norwegian patients’ ability to participate in clinical studies. There are only a few of the 120 worldwide clinical studies available to Norwegian patients. So there's clearly a need to do something about this, so Norwegian patients with deadly diseases, with little hope and with gloomy prospects can get something to live for and hope for. It's positive, what the Minister of Health says he wants to look at the panel of experts and the mandate they have. I also think it is positive to want more people to participate in clinical studies. But I would like to stress that it is important that we now get speed on this. I would like to ask the Minister for Health: what does this change to a mandate in the panel of experts mean for ALS patients? What does that mean for people with cancer? And what kind of significance will this have for those who now need a hope – such as both ALS patients, cancer patients and people with dementia for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3961	As the representative was involved, there is a strong commitment in very many patient groups to be able to participate in several clinical studies. Therefore, the action plan presented in January is also very important for many patients. The fact that we have a very clear ambition for healthcare to increase participation in clinical studies for many is incredibly important. With regard to the specific issue, it is linked to the current mandate of the panel of experts, which is limited mainly to patients with less than one year of life expectancy. It is clear that for many ALS patients, on whom the representative was involved, this would be a difficult criterion. Although the expert panel can still ignore that criterion today, it will be difficult to see it. Once in a disease situation where the remaining lifetime is assumed, it is clear that it is not understandable that one is in a situation where one has strong faith that new treatment options provide an extended life span. It is therefore important to look at precisely that part of the mandate, to see if more patients can be evaluated at an earlier stage. It is important because the expert panel brings together the top professionals in Norway to assess the individual patient, and they also have the best overview of the different clinical studies conducted internationally. We see that the expert panel has been of great importance, especially for many cancer patients who have had their case reviewed, and who have thus both received a different type of treatment from the one originally proposed in the hospital and who have also been enrolled in clinical studies and have received treatment options that one else had not received. I believe this is one of the possibilities we have to use, in addition to what is happening through better organisation for clinical studies, not least in the brain health field through the centre that is established in Bergen, which has already contributed to Norwegian ALS patients participating in this type of study, which is very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3972	First of all, I would like to thank Cathrine Nordstrand and Nils Arne Morka for giving ALS patients a face and a voice. Nordstrand I have had the opportunity to meet several times, and Morka I have read about in the media over the past few weeks. For a boxer and former Norwegian champion, it has to be special to fight a fight you know you can't win. Because it's so brutal to get an ALS diagnosis today. I want to thank Nils Arne Morka for taking the fight anyway. When future patients may not have to thank only hope, but actually have a treatment offer that works, both Nils Arne and Cathrine should know that those patients are on their shoulders. It is medical progress and innovation that allow you to live longer and longer and still have a good life even if you are affected by chronic disease. There are medical advances that make many die with their diseases and not with them. In many cases, what was previously fatal diagnosis in the short or long term becomes chronic diseases that can be kept in check. Two years ago, my husband got MS. That diagnosis is very different to get and would live with and deal with in 2019 versus if you got it in 1999. It is about progress, and I hope that those progress will also be there for ALS patients in the future. On 11 January, the government launched the first national action plan for clinical studies. It says that the government's vision is that clinical research should be an integral part of all patient treatment, and that the goal is to double the number of clinical studies by 2025. The government states that this is ambitious in clinical studies, but in reality it means that the number of clinical studies should resume at the same level as in 2000. Indeed, for the number of clinical studies, half of the last 20 years have been used. I wish the government were actually even more ambitious. In addition to clinical studies, compassionate use has been an option for patients with severe disease where existing treatment is not effective or where no approved treatment exists. It is that the law allows promising medicines to be used for some patients before they are authorised. In 2018, regional health establishments amended the rules for such use in public hospitals. To me, it seems somewhat unclear to me how much this has restricted patients' access to proven medicine, but I understand that there is still a dialogue between the parties. Perhaps the Minister of Health will also explain this in his final reply. Finally, I would like to point out that ALS is hitting whole families hard and brutally. Although this interpellation is about drugs and ‘right to try’, I would nevertheless like to highlight the importance of building good, interdisciplinary teams around those affected by the ALS, and their families. Close cooperation between hospitals and municipalities is needed, and psychological support is needed for both patients and relatives. But the goal must be that we go from being in a place where what we can offer these patients is a worthy death, that one day we have found a treatment that gives these patients a worthy life. Finally, I would like to thank Sylvi Listhaug for the initiative and the interpellation. It's not the first time we're here to discuss ALS and an interpellation on her initiative, so I appreciate it very much, and I know that patients do too.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e3993	I'm happy with this interpellation here now. I hoped several others would join, but it is very good that Tuva Moflag also participates. I sent a question to Bent Höie in September 2020. Then it's very good that others are also involved in this fight. 90 pst. of those diagnosed live two to five years after diagnosis. Some ALS patients choose to end their life in Switzerland – active death help. Others choose to live a few extra years on a respirator. Young people too can get ALS. In Norway, we have ALS patients in the early 20s. ALS is described as one of the worst diseases humans can have. Many ALS patients have minor children. Those I've talked to say they live without hope. There is research at ALS in many places in the world. Still we see drugs that have been through phase 1 and that can work promisingly. In the United States, «right to try» has enabled those with serious and fatal diagnosis to test drugs that have been through phase 1. In Norway, ALS disease is not tested by Edaravone approved in Australia, the United States, Canada, Korea and Japan. We know that there is a study on B vitamins for ALS disease in Norway. It's the research center in Bergen that's behind it. Without hope, it's very difficult to live. With hope, the person will have a better life – even if the medicine doesn't work. But of course I hope the medicine works. SV will light a light in the darkness of the ALS patients, as Sylvi Listhaug said. Dementia is in line with ALS fatal. For people with such a serious diagnosis, who lose control of their daily lives, and who day by day experience that their brain no longer masters what they could before, it could give both hope and life to get an offer to try out medications even if they haven't gone through all the trial stages. Research and drug development are taking place in many places, but Norwegian dementia sufferers are not allowed to participate, despite the fact that many of them have a strong desire to contribute, both in the hope of their own cure and not least to help others to receive treatment in the future. SV will also light a light in the darkness of the dementia spaces in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e4010	I always feel a certain willingness and despair that we can't do more for those who are so seriously ill, but I think it's important that we do what we can to make them feel as good as possible, and that we give them hope. We discussed here earlier this with what information you get when you get this diagnosis, and I asked Nils Arne Morka about it. Unfortunately, he said, as I have been told by many others who have got this deadly disease, that he got a thin brochure in his hand and traveled home and started looking online for what kind of disease this was. This was in the summer of 2020. I believe that it is very important that we now ensure a worthy meeting with these patients when they come to the hospital and get it as straight is a death sentence, and I hope the Minister of Health will take it with him and take it further into the system. Then I am also concerned about what I had to do with cancer. We now saw in the newspaper Terje, which uses tens of thousands of dollars in cancer medicine. It is clear that it is worrying when it is becoming more and more the wallet that comes into being in terms of treatment methods, or that you need to come in the newspapers to get collection actions to be seen and to get money. But the great crowd will never do it and will not, as it is today in some cases, get help. I think that is something to address in the future that is important to our society. I am very pleased that the Minister of Health will take initiatives to change the mandate. I hope it can happen quickly, and if the Minister of Health can say anything about the time horizon on it, it's very good, because I know that there's a lot of people now listening and wondering what's going on. These patients have so little time to wait. I really want to thank you for the debate. I hope that the Minister of Health will give further priority to this matter. Although I know that the council has a lot to do now in these corona times, these patients don't have time to wait. That's why we have to do what we can do now, as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e4023	Thank you for a good debate, and thank you to the interpellant for raising these important questions. I very much agree with the description given by how difficult it is that we cannot give these patients a better medical treatment than is possible today. There is actually only one way this can be improved, and it is precisely through research, through having several studies, through both the development of new medicines and the testing of the effects of existing medicines on ALS. Therefore, I believe that what Norway is doing as our contribution here, among other things. now through the ALS study, is important. Fortunately, medical knowledge is to a very large extent an international common good, where each country through our studies and our efforts can help build a whole that benefits all, or very many, patients. I would like to start by looking at the mandate quite immediately and looking at the possibilities there. So I'll end by saying that I also understand the despair of many cancer patients who want to try other treatments. However, I would like to stress that the main picture of Norwegian cancer treatment is that we are offering a cancer treatment that is in the very top class internationally, that Norway is a country that is rapidly using new treatment methods, and not least that we are a country that, unlike many other countries, offers them to all cancer patients who have the same diagnosis. Very often, we are compared to countries where it is not that when a special cancer treatment is available, it is actually available to all cancer patients, but perhaps only to a few. It also has a great value, the way we work in Norway, namely that when we decide that cancer treatment should be publicly funded, it is publicly funded for everyone with the same diagnosis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-16.ana.ud349e4034	With that, the interpellant debate is over. Thus today's map is fully debated. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
