ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e92	For the sake of infection, the President would suggest that the audience gallery be held closed even during the meeting today, and see it as agreed. There is an application for welfare leave from the representative of the Bears Moxnes on Thursday 11 March. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: The application will be processed immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Seher Aydar, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e114	Seher Aydar is present and will take the seat. The representative, Seher Aydar, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e121	On behalf of the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik and myself, I would like to propose a halt in further adaptation to the EU Energy Agency Acer. Red will propose the introduction of quotas for the export of unprocessed fish in order to ensure that Norwegian fish create Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e128	The representative, Roy Steffensen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e133	On behalf of the representatives of Åshild Bruun-Gundersen, Hanne Dyveke Søttar and myself, I would like to submit a proposal for a representative to amend the grade regulation so that more places of study can provide education for the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e138	The representative, Bengt Rune Strifeldt, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e143	On behalf of the major representatives of Helge André Njåstad, Gisle Meininger Saudland, Kjell-Børge Freiberg, Per-Willy Amundsen, Hanne Dyveke Sweets and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to stop tightening up marine salmon fishing in 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e148	The representative, Lise Christoffersen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e154	On behalf of Rigmor Aasrud, Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen, Arild Grande, Fredric Holen Bjørdal and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the necessary changes to the code of professional injury, including the so-called oil pioneers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e159	The representative, Helge André Njåstad, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e164	On behalf of the representatives of Per-Willy Amundsen, Hanne Dyveke Søttar, Tor André Johnsen, Bengt Rune Strifeldt, Terje Halleland, Bård Hoksrud, Morten Ørsal Johansen, Kjell-Børge Freiberg, Gisle Meininger Saudland and myself, I am pleased to present a proposal for full internet coverage to the whole country during 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e169	The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e174	On behalf of Nicholas Wilkinson, Mona Fagerås, Freddy André Øvstegård, Arne Nävra and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a fair rental network in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e179	The representative, Emilie Enger Mehl, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e184	On behalf of the representatives of Geir Pollestad, Liv Signe Navarsete, Willfred Nordlund, Ole André Myhrvold and myself, I would like to put forward proposals for a key message on national ownership and control of strategically important natural resources, businesses, infrastructure and technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e189	The proposal will be managed in accordance with the rules of procedure. The President would point out that case No. 12 and 13 in the meeting map have not been public in the 48 hours required by the regulations, cf. Rules of Procedure § 46. However, the President will propose that matters be dealt with. No objections have been raised to this, and the President sees it as agreed. In addition, the President will inform you that today's meeting is continuing beyond noon. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e209	The size should now have a round of debates which deviated slightly from the guidelines for debates set out in the Storting Rules of Procedure. The President will organise the debate as follows: A separate debate will be held on each of the proposals you wish to discuss. The person presenting the proposal shall have a speaking time of up to 10 minutes. Other posts for the same proposal have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. If you want additional articles for the same suggestion, their duration will be up to 3 minutes. You do not have the right permissions to take a line. The number of posts per representative is limited to two plus one short comment per proposal, in line with the general rule of the Storting Rules of Procedure. An overview of the basic legislative proposals that have been submitted for presentation and debate is available in the paper version in the Chamber and have been published in the Chamber. The President asks the representatives who wish to attend to join us to join us on the list of speakers until we come to the proposal in question – alternatively to the secretary on which proposals they wish to speak. The first proposal is Constitutional Amendment 11 on free and secret elections – a new electoral law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e242	Thank you for facilitating such a debate. I think it is important that something as important as amending the Constitution is debated also during the period of the proposals, as the basis for the conclusions to be drawn by the voters in the autumn's elections. Constitutional proposal 11 is very special. It is promoted by representatives Eva Kristin Hansen, Magne Rommetveit, Svein Harberg, Bente Stein Mathisen, Solveig Horne, Terje Breivik, Ulf Leirstein and myself. The proposal is based on the election law committee's proposal for a new electoral law, announced in NOU 2020: 6, Free and secret elections – New electoral law. I have to say that I waited with excitement at the election law committee's setting, but I can well say that I think we received little guidance through the setting that exists. There is a lot of good discussion of principles and issues, but there is a very big gap in the recommendations – different majority, which change from case to case – and thus see a small overall guide to any changes in the electoral law. The setting was presented quite close to the deadline for submitting constitutional proposals to the Stortinget, and that is why the said members behind the proposal, including me, simply took responsibility for all the alternatives discussed and promoted by the Electoral Commission, by a majority of some, minority elsewhere, in relation to the proposed amendment to the Basic Law, which is necessary in order to follow up the vote of the Electoral Committee. This means that several of the representatives who are proposers disagree with some and agree with other proposals. So here we have done a job to facilitate the next majorization treatment without all of us being behind all of the suggestions that you have put your name on. I think that's important to emphasize. An example of the fact that this is necessarily the case is that in the case of the barrier limit to participate in the distribution of equalization mandates, there are proposals for both 3 pst., 4 pst. And 5 pst. And it says itself that you can't agree with everyone. Personally, I do not believe that the barrier limit should be lowered. To make a completely different proposal: it is a proposal which I have been involved in promoting in due course, and which is repeated by the majority of the electoral committee, and it is that we should ensure that today's opening of the Constitution to recruit as a State Secretary or political adviser is removed. It is precisely from the basic principle that the top position one can have in Norway is as a representative of the people in the national assembly, and based on the principle of the power distribution principle in Norway that the King, as it is called in the Basic Law, i.e. the Government, should not be able to influence the composition of the Storting, which has the role of controlling the government. It's basically important, I think. It is one of the suggestions in the setting that I hope for my part that the next big deal will be adopted by a constitutional majority. There are many other examples of individual proposals that you can agree with and disagree with. For my part, I do not choose to go through the individual proposals. The most important thing is that we have arranged for all proposals to be discussed in the next period, without necessarily implying that some of the proposers are behind each proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e257	No more people have asked for the word for Constitutional Amendment 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e264	This is a very different type of case, which I am very pleased that the representatives Svein Harberg, Magne Rommetveit, Eva Kristin Hansen, Bente Stein Mathisen, Freddy André Øvstegård, Karin Andersen, Terje Breivik, Une Bastholm and Björna Moxnes have been behind as proponents. The reason for the proposal to come up with exactly the wording that is now available, namely that the right of all-persons should be maintained, is that this is a subject which has been dealt with several times by the Constitutional Court. There has been a lot of sympathy – and so much support for the principle, which is an old principle of Norwegian legislation – but it has not been possible to find a single formulation that has managed to bring together a constitutional majority. Those of us who took part in the debate at the last time heard that there was a lot of agreement on purpose here, but some counter-representations against the way proposals were formulated. Those of us in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs who have been involved in and followed this debate therefore agreed, in fact, during the consideration of the previous proposal by the Stortinge, that we should sit down together and try to find a common text that could bring together a constitutional majority. Now the representatives who stand here may not necessarily be on behalf of a united party, but at least there are representatives of parties who will make it possible to obtain a constitutional majority, who are now present as proposers. I believe it would be the result of a good job and a great breakthrough if we could get through to legislating the law of the law of every human being. The reason is that there is an old law in Norwegian context. The Allemannsrecht was part of Magnus Lagbøte's national law of 1274 and was confirmed as a law of the open-air law of 1957. But the reason why several of us feel that it is important to establish that principle today – and I believe that despite being a Constitutional Conservative and believing that there should be good reasons to change the Constitution – is that there is a broad consensus on that. It's a value in Norwegian society, but we're also constantly seeing discussions about the exploitation of land that may conflict with the principle of all-man rights, and we sometimes experience discussions about pricing the use of it as others see it as an obvious part of all-man rights. Let me stress: if this is now grounded, which I hope, that does not mean that we are repealing the second Norwegian law. That means you have to be gentle. That means you can't destroy the one you're entitled to dispose of. There's no change in that. So there is a constraint on possible future restrictions on the rights of all people we believe to achieve by proposing that it be enshrined in the Constitution. My wish is that at least two thirds of those who will be in the Grand Duchy in the next period will agree to a proposal that we have now been able to formulate with broad consensus.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e279	I intend to take that baton with me and take it to the target. Allemansrecht is, as was said, a very old value in Norway, and it has in a way constituted us both as people and society to the way we think – on human vision, on values and on what we have together. It's one of the most important values of freedom we have. For me, the universal right is freedom, the freedom of the individual – under responsibility, of course, as the representative Andersen of the Workers' Party said. It is the freedom that means that we can use the areas of freedom that are in the country, for recreation and simply to move freely without having to ask for law. It's done something to us, with the view of each other as human beings, as equivalent people, and that it's actually possible to use something that other people own. You can use it carefully, and it's for the benefit of everyone. It simply creates a good society. This is not the first time this proposal is being promoted, as has been said. The wording that now stands, I'm very pleased, because it also stood last time, as one of the alternatives at the time. It's a very good constitutional formula because it's similar to both bookkeeping and new Norwegian, but it also establishes what the Constitution should state, namely that this right should be attached. Then it's important, as was said by the first speaker, that this should be a barrier to restricting the rights of all people in the future. I'm pretty clear I mean that. This does not mean that it is not possible to make any changes to the law related to this, but that the principle is now to be established as a fundamental law value on which this society is to build and simply ensure that it stands by. I am pleased that this comes into the Constitution. There's sometimes a discussion about what's going to be in the Constitution, but I think that with such a fundamental value, which constitutes how we view sail as participants in a society, and where ownership is fundamental, it's right that the law of the law of the law of the land, so that there's a balance in it. I want to remind you once again that I think there are very few people who use all-man rights as much as just founders. They use all-man rights almost all the time. I think there are enough examples where you can point out that this may have created some problems, but it's caught up in another law, which says that it's forbidden to prune, and that kind of thing. We, who are the champions of all human rights, are also the champions of nature protection and to be gentle and not leave behind tracks that damage the amazing natural basis that we have now had open to the public, and that we now want to protect the public in the future. It concerns both the forest, the open spaces, not least the beach zone – that is, where the rights of all people are most threatened today – and all the small areas in rural areas where the rights of all people are important, where you can take care of paths and opportunities to move in their neighbourhoods, so that there are good neighbourhoods of it as well. I am looking forward to the next growing-up period, as this Constitutional proposal will be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e292	This proposal may, at first reading, appear to be a very sympathetic proposal. After all, we are in agreement with the advantage that you can have a right of universal use which also means use for the general public of land and property for which others have formal ownership, in particular outland which for some seasons is without interest to the owners, where the tourist can take a shortcut, etc. The reason why I'm already going to warn against adopting the proposal is partly that there are assumptions that I think the Storting should look a little closer to. Why does the adoption of a constitutional provision take place? Well, it's just to put a bond on Storting's legislative authority later. If it is true that you just want to give notice that you know the right of all people as a principle, the provision is not difficult to accept, but if you want to freeze the scope of this right, you place restrictions on ordinary law and perhaps on the local regulatory authority, etc. All-man rights have thus always been recognised through normal regulatory activities, including elected and not least local democracy. The representative then tells Andersen that ownership and all-men's rights are now equal, because ownership is governed by the Constitution. It's not. It is a replacement rule that is stated in Section 105, the principle of full compensation when the state or others come and take the property away from you. There is no connection to any principle – only the lack of symmetry between ownership and another rule – the right to all persons can in fact also be seen as a principle of non-compensation for the use of the property by others than the owners themselves. Both paragraphs are essentially interference with ownership. If you were to first have a constitutional rule that was universal and more principleal, it might also be in place to institute ownership as a positive value and not just as a protection against arbitrariness and undercompensation. If you start drawing historical lines, it's really more ownership that has formed us as people by ensuring the spread of power, ensuring local decision-making and ensuring a much greater interest in maintenance and a private interest in the fact that society's total values are taken on much better value than when this is left to the municipality, state or other distant collectives who do not have the daily possession of the property or the liability that only an owner who has a relationship with what you own can have. With these reservations, I don't want to recommend all-man rights as it's formulated here, but it's at least a play for a very interesting debate, and we have too little of that here in Stortinget. Judicial debate is not at all what interests the Storting the most. I'm not going to go into it here, but it's very good that we sometimes have the opportunity to do this. That's the Big One's earned.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e307	A little comment on the last Michael Tetzschner mentioned, about having debates on e.g. Constitutional proposals: We had a rather long discussion about it in the Harberg Committee. We very much agree with that, and we ask in our conclusion that it is put on the agenda how we can raise the debates on constitutional proposals more effectively in a way that involves the people, and that more people can be involved, perhaps at an early stage, and say something about these proposals. That's good. The representative Tetzschner took up one point I had, that is, that ownership is respected, so I don't have to say more about that. We have had several debates here, as Mr Andersen mentioned. I have always tried to see how we can strengthen the rights of all people in our law – and not necessarily the Constitution. That was my starting point in the first debates we had, to see how we could reinforce that right in the second law. I have to admit that I have not found the opening that makes me sure that that principle is established. We often discuss what we should have in the Constitution, and whether rights should be included in the Constitution. I don't see this primarily as a right; I see it as a fundamental principle of how we organize ourselves. I think that is important to take care of, and at least I want to take part in a debate on whether or not such a principle should require a two-thirds majority. Then it's in the Constitution it has to be. I wanted to clear up a little bit of my background to be a part of it. I must say to the representative Karin Andersen that I do not entirely agree with all her arguments for this, but I think we agree on a goal. So we'll see how this is treated in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e320	Fortunately, there is a broad consensus on the rights of all people in Norway. It is also a long tradition in Norway, as it is in other Scandinavian countries, for the right of each person to property of another person. The question here is, why should this be included in the Constitution? From the left side, we have long wanted and have a long tradition of wanting to legislate on all-man rights, and many of the arguments, of course, go on all-man rights as such. The right for all to enjoy natural experiences, and also to move freely and to reap the profits of nature, is a broad consensus. Outdoors are health-promoting and provide good experiences for the individual. In addition, Norwegian nature is a basis for travel and is of great importance for locality and housing patterns. There are a lot of arguments for all-man rights that I think everyone will agree on. The question then arises as to why we should have it into the Constitution. For us, there are many ways to emphasize how fundamental this is in our history and in our traditions. You can see the difference between countries that don't have an all-man's right, where it's much easier to get restrictions in order to get into someone's property. One depends on a public ownership or availability to enter and take advantage of these areas. I think it's time to do this, and that it's right to include it in the Constitution. I'm glad that it's now such a broad majority for it, and that it can become a consensus on it. I think we do well to stress the importance of the right of all persons by including it in the Constitution. I also think we should take into account that the universal right at any time will be something that – not as a whole, but on the outer edges – will always be challenging. The Allemannsrecht will also be strengthened in the rest of the law through a foundation law, so I hope the Stortinget will make a decision in the next period to get it into the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e332	The representative Harberg said something that I very much agree with. He said that he viewed this as a fundamental principle of how we organize ourselves. I think that was a very good way to describe it. He also said that he had looked at the underlying laws, how to do this in other ways. Of course you can change, for example. The planning and building law and the kind of thing to do, but this is a fundamental principle in Norway, and I want to say that I think it has actually constituted us as people and countries, how we think about these things. And it doesn't threaten anyone, to be able to use all-man rights, within the assumptions that are. I am very pleased with the word «freedom». I have grown up under conditions where the rights of all persons were freedom for me, because I have grown up among the homeless and seen the world from a slightly different point of view than the representative Tetzschner has done. I've seen what it's done to people that they can use nature, the beach zone – I've even experienced what it's like to meet across the layers of society. When we met the forest owner out in the woods, we were more equivalent. We sat around the same fire, we shared coffee, we ate our food package – and that's not the way it was. And it does something to people. To put it that way -- I think we're pretty much at our best when we meet in the woods and use our all-man rights, because then we talk to people we haven't seen before. I believe that this is doing very well with us, and therefore it is an important value to take care of. All rights are under pressure, especially in the coastal zone, and there are conflicts of interest, there is no doubt about it. There we are, on our side, very determined that the beach zone should be taken care of by all-men's rights, and that it should be open to all. And then finally, one important reason to get this into the Constitution is that if this is to be changed, it will take time, so that it is possible to bring up debates on changing such an important legal principle as Norway has had for several hundred years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e343	I don't think there's any doubt that everyone is certain that the rights of all are important, and that it's important that people get to use him. But there's something about the balance here. For us who have tried this from both sides, one of the reasons why the Centre Party does not support this proposal is precisely the balance between rights and obligations. We see that there are major challenges today. Some of those who are concerned about the rights of all people understand that there are a lot of obligations here, most of them are good, but unfortunately we have too many situations where conflicts are created because one has misunderstood the content of all-man's rights. Therefore, I am afraid that instead of making it safer and getting better interaction, we can get it to the contrary. I don't think putting it into the Constitution, as this proposal is currently under way, will help solve the challenges in the coastal zones and areas where we clearly see the greatest pressure on the rights of all. I think it's the opposite. I think, unfortunately, that we can have a situation with bigger challenges in the field, where the landowners would like to facilitate, but where they are sitting, with the consequence of all-man rights, where people use him in an improper way. A person must have a greater balance between rights and obligations before he can evaluate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e350	I'm recording that our political change of words is characterized by a little bit of inflation right now, because there's no way that interests are very quickly elevated to rights. If it's a protective interest in itself, it won't take long before it becomes fundamental. So now a courthouse that we all recognize is going to have to be elevated to a constitutional norm. It's even said that it's a basic principle. No, in fact, the universal right is the exception to the general rule that you respect ownership. It is the exception that allows other people, the public, to use property that they do not own without compensation to the landowner. So it's an exception rule and it can't be a principle on which society is founded. The communities that have tried it are considered anarchy. The fact that a political majority gives everyone the opportunity to benefit from the rights of the landowners is not unmistakable. Nor can I understand this lack of legal support as one of the representatives pointed out. Yes, it is free to propose general, ordinary legislation that ensures outdoor life. We also have all the possibilities within being able to regulate to clearance. Then I would like to say that I react a little to the representative, Karin Andersen, who allowed me to start his speech with the fact that as a representative I would have other life experiences, who might have asked me in a worse situation to judge these questions. I can only reassure the President that Andersen knows nothing about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e359	The representative Karin Andersen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e364	I'm just recording that we see the world from a slightly different point of view. I come from the non-proprietary and have used all-man rights all my life without harming any of the world's things. This is not about taking care of the property of others. This is about using it – carefully. Yes, it is true that some people can sometimes use the rights of all persons carelessly. It's not allowed. It's forbidden. But it is also true that some landowners neglect to take care of the nature they own – unfortunately. We also have laws that protect against that. This is about the principle of freedom on which we have built our society for many years, and which I hope the Storting will agree that we should protect for the future, because it does people and land well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e371	No more people have asked for the word for Constitutional Amendment 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e378	Proposal No. 9 is a proposal that, like the previous one, has been made because we have discussed the principle of the Community's ownership of marine resources. In the past, there has been a high degree of consensus on this, but it has not been possible to find a common wording. That's why we've sat together and worked to find a solution, and the proposal is now presented by Eva Kristin Hansen, Magne Rommetveit, Svein Harberg, Bente Stein Mathisen, Nils T. Bjørke, Terje Breivik and myself. Both for this proposal, the previous proposal and what we're going to discuss later, we've had the pleasure of getting a recording from Professor Eivind Smith. For one thing, we can agree politically on the wording that we think is comprehensive, but it has also been important to make sure that quality assurance is maintained in a legal way. The background to this proposal is, to a large extent, the same as for the previous proposal, on the right of all persons, that we in Norway have a long way in agreeing that the fish in the sea belong to the community. That is why the wording that we have proposed is quite simple. It says, «The wild marine resources, and the right to harvest them, belong to the community.» That is a short and straightforward wording. Why is it necessary, then, if many think it is the general rule and, to this extent, the specific legislation in force? Well, that's because we're still seeing discussions about the right to harvest and manage the marine resources. And a direct reason, I can say, is the Voldstad judgment of 23 October 2013 in the Supreme Court, where it was correctly established that the authorities were allowed to make the regulation that had been made, but it was only with one voice's overweight. Then it is that the principle that we here are seeking to get the Constitution, at least in my opinion, would not have been fulfilled if there had been one vote overweight for the opposite conclusion. It has made it even more clear, with regard to the pressure on the opportunities to have a community of marine resources and to regulate who can harvest them, that it is important and necessary to establish the principle, which is part of the fisheries legislation, in the form of the Constitution. I have some examples from countries with which we sometimes discuss fisheries policy, which have allowed far more privatisation and eternal fishing quotas, which show that developments in those countries in terms of harvesting and serving the resources of the sea mean that they end up in situations where very few sit on the real rights of use of those resources. It is a fisheries policy that I believe in Norway that there is a relatively broad consensus not to pursue, but which nevertheless underlines the importance it may have of the fact that the constitution proposed here with broad support can, hopefully, be adopted in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e394	This is a proposal in which I can give full support to the previous speaker. This is an important matter that really means something, and as one actually sees a lot of action afterwards. The free-standing marine resources are the people's property. The fish is the general population of the sea, which the coastal people have the right to rest together. This is the way it has been since one of the Gulatings Laws and Frostings Laws wrote down the old one right in the 1100s. The coastal population’s right to fish as a resource also helps to secure the material basis for Sami culture. This constitutional proposal, on the Community's right to take over the marine resources, raises the old claimed right to fish where one belongs, as a basic principle of how we manage the natural resources in the country. The national community goes over several generations. This Constitutional proposal provides for the need for sustainable management of fish stocks and other marine resources. It emphasises that the management of marine resources should ensure a socially viable housing, where the management of fishing resources is affected by the concerns of employment and coastal communities. Fundamentally legislating the Community's ownership of the marine resources sets limits to the decisions of the legislative and executive powers. When administrative decisions are taken in the form of regulations and decisions, the principle of the Constitution must be based. Such bideg submitted that old right gets a natural place in the administration today. Public opinion will – as they have been – adapt our own time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e403	We see an ever-increasing centralization in our fishing, we see quotas being collected on fewer hands than before, and we see not least how it challenges the very life base of many coastal communities around the country. That is why this is an important matter. SV does not agree with any of its representatives from the proposers of this Constitution. We have a different, separate, constitutional proposal, and I'll briefly tell you why. For a thousand years, we have had two principles that have been fundamental to the management of wild marine resources, for our fishing resources. One of these is the Constitutional proposal, and it is the general principle that the national community should receive the benefits of our resources. But the second principle is not included. That is the principle of subsidiarity, and that principle is as important for the management of our wild marine resources as the other. This means that resources will benefit the community throughout the nation, but that the harvesting of resources is linked to the coastal communities, those that have this as their material basis, the basis of their lives. Similar principles are also found in agriculture. No one on the other side of the country shall harvest the resources; they shall be harvested by those living and living in the middle of it, to which these resources belong. That is why we have promoted our own proposal. We do not agree with this joint proposal in this round, but we look forward to interesting debates on these two proposals in the next period, and I hope that something can still be achieved. SV believes it would have been a great advantage if we established both the fundamental principles of the management of our fishing resources when we first go in that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e414	I have a comment on the post from the Supreme Court. I just want to stress that as far as fishing resources are concerned to benefit coastal communities, there is no disagreement about that. It is currently regulated by the Special Law. The reason why we have relied only on the right to manage a resource that is to be the community is that we believe it is right when we adopt the Constitution, that it does not distinguish among people in Norway, but establishes a principle that is important. I was a little disappointed that SV would not be part of this Constitutional Bill, because when many of us have put us together to try to find out in the name of honesty something that could gather so wide that we could get a Constitutional Amendment, I would have liked SV to be there. To be honest, I think it doesn't get a little too much symbolism and too little reality. But I could imagine asking a question to Supreme Court, if he is ready to comment on it now. There are few of us who have clarified political positions in the parties, but I still allow myself to ask the Supreme Court if it can be relevant, if the vote is taken in such a way, that SV can vote for the draft constitution we are now discussing, if his own option is not to be given a constitutional majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e428	You don't necessarily have to make a difference to people in the Constitution, but it's okay, I think, to make a difference to resources that will benefit the entire community, and this with harvesting and how it relates to the coastal communities, because that's the whole core of the matter. It's far more than a symbol. It has practical, important consequences. Yes, it is that all of these principles are regulated by law, but yet we see it as necessary, despite that, to legislate both of these principles. Then we want to have with the coastal communities as well. Harvesting resources is at the heart of the question because we see how that harvest is centralised today, that the quotas are collected on fewer hands than before. I'm not going to pre-empt how SV's big-time group will approach the Constitutional proposals that are now being put forward, but at least I have the belief that it's going to be an interesting debate, and then I hope we get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e435	The representative Day Terje Andersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e440	I may have been unclear, but I have not claimed that there is a symbolism policy how we allocate the right to reap the resources of the sea. On the contrary, I have emphasised that there are important principles in the specific law that apply. What I think is symbol policy, is if there is a constitutional proposal that one else agrees with, and one cannot support it because one would want even more conditions into the same Constitutional proposal. For the sake of order, the distribution of the right to fish is far more than symbolism, but rejecting a proposal because it's not exactly what you want, can be symbolism. It is sad if this leads to a constitutional proposal with otherwise broad agreement not being adopted because of the SV's votes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e447	No more people have asked for the word for Constitutional Amendment 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e454	So the draft constitution we are now going to discuss is no. 10, as the President said. It is promoted by the representatives Eva Kristin Hansen, Magne Rommetveit, Svein Harberg, Hans Fredrik Gruvan, Freddy André Øvstegård, Terje Breivik, Nils T. Bjørke, Une Bastholm and Björn Moxnes, saying: ‘It is up to the authorities of the State to facilitate the security and development of the Sami people, such as indigenous peoples, in their language, culture and social life.’ Like the two previous proposals, this is the result of the fact that those who have both participated in and listened to the discussion that has taken place during this major period of constitutional proposals have recorded that there might have been a basis for reaching an agreement. As far as this proposal is concerned, it may be that of the proposals we are discussing today, which Michael Tetzschner was talking about instead of the legal part of the legal discussion, where there have been very many wise and competent people who have also been involved in previous discussions on what is the right distinction between people, ethnic groups, nationality, etc. We've got a lot of good ideas about it. A further reason why some of us found out that we had to work a little bit more closely to try to figure out the consensus that was a little behind the voting during this period was that in the Control and Constitutional Committee we also met with the Assembly and discussed the proposals that were before us during this period. Against this background, and also with legal input into the matter, we have therefore found the basis for the joint promotion of the proposal as it now stands by these representatives. So a little bit to the debate around, because there's sometimes a bit of a heated debate about the questions we're discussing here. Just to underline it: there are some people who try to make it as – some from linguistics, and some from other approaches, e.g. translation of ‘indigenous peoples’ – that we are considering which peoples, sams and others came first to North Norway. No, we are not dealing with that through this proposal. ILO Convention No 169 shows, among other things: to and underlines, and that is what is at the heart of the policy of indigenous peoples that has been conducted with relatively broad consensus in Norway in recent years, that it also applies to the national groups that were in the country when the borders of the nation were drawn. 1826 was the last border crossing in Norway, then on the route from Nesseby to Grense Jakobselv. There is no doubt that the Sami peoples were present in Norway at that time. So we don't want to contribute to that conflict, but we want to get the basic law of indigenous peoples as a natural part of our follow-up that we have otherwise had broad consensus, including. through the creation of the Velocity and other measures in recent years. Then it seems to be a solution that lies here for the possibility of also fixing it in the form of a constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e474	I'm sorry that there will be some articles today. The reason is that the representative Jette Christensen and the undersigned were the case rapporteur for each of our half of the Constitution as revised for the anniversary of 2014. That's why we recognize a lot of arguments, including those arguments that then led to the Storting not going into changing the so-called co-paragraph, which there have not been any objections to in the sense that it should have been missing. It is also the case, as the representative Dag Terje Andersen pointed out, that the ILO and the ILO Convention have developed their own dogmatic approach to these issues, which, moreover, is not so good for Norwegian matters. Then there might be a point with our definitions, as they were made in the investigation done by Carsten Smith in his time, who had a very broad review. The nice thing about keeping the rule unchanged is that you can then build on the entire amount of motivation left by the sample, which was very readable. There's also a couple of other things you have to watch out for. Internationally, the indigenous population has been spoken of in the context of land conflicts, where a new population has come in and pushed out the traditional and has begun to operate with indigenous peoples as a term in contrast to the group that has then entered and taken care of their land. Now, luckily, Norway is equipped so that we haven't seen such conflicts. Several groups have been able to live freely alongside each other from age onwards and to cultivate their peculiarities without disturbing each other and even rising up in a nation-state with cooperation. Of course, historical mistakes have also been made by the central government – what central power in our countries has been without fault? – but not only on this basis, where appropriate, it may also apply in relation to other underprivileged groups. Then it's settled in it through the welfare state and the modern prosperity we've been given. I still believe that the arguments from 2014 stand. By using a native name, it is also understood that someone should be more original, more people than others, to say it like that – even if you might say that there is some kind of home spelling local, but that's not the one we've infected. We also have an indigenous population, the rest of the population. I believe that this practice is not fortunate, it can be divisive, and that the provision already contained in the Constitution, respecting the particular history and culture of the Sami peoples, and allowing it to develop within the framework of the nation state, are important standards that stand, and that do not require any change, especially if these changes can result in an international shift of concepts in a way that the Storting cannot condone on later occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e487	No more people have asked for the word for Constitutional Amendment 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e494	The recent celebration of Red's initiative 100 years of general voting, which was fought in 1919, when small-scale workers, including those on public poverty support, finally took part in elections in Norway. It did not come about by itself, but was the result of political struggles, where the movement of workers played a very central role. Norwegian democracy has therefore been expanded over time in a number of areas. A number of locations in the world have also introduced more direct public participation schemes and have been introduced as a complement to representative democracy. Technological developments have made it both simpler and less resource-intensive. Red will now contribute to the expansion of democracy. It is therefore a pleasure for me to present this proposal, which seeks to legislate the right of the population to present proposals for treatment in the Grand Duchy and thus to strengthen popular participation in democracy. In short, the system will allow people to present proposals for treatment in the Grand Duchy, as long as they have a certain percentage of voting rights with them, and as long as the proposal meets the conditions applicable to proposals by the elected representatives. Paragraph 76 of the Basic Law states that it is the deposit representatives and the government that have the right to propose laws on the Stortinget. Our system does not allow legislative proposals or constitutional proposals to be introduced as citizens' proposals, but it opens up citizens' proposals for the Stortinge to instruct the government to make, amend or repeal laws. The difference may sound a little technical, but it means that our proposal does not conflict with the Constitution as it is today. Nevertheless, when we promote this proposal as a constitutional proposal, it is because we believe it is right to establish the right of the population to make proposals as a permanent arrangement in the Constitution and to ensure that the scheme is put in place in a firm and orderly way. Red wishes, in principle, to strengthen popular participation in democracy. That is really reason enough for us to promote this proposal. However, I would like to say a little bit about the danger signals out in society that I think can convince many that there is an urgent need to do something to strengthen democracy now. It is probably easy for the politicians here in Norway to think that democracy already works more than well enough. But there are a lot of people who have burnt up before, including here in Europe. In many parts of the West, participation in democracy is now falling, and when active participation in democracy falls, it should not be surprised if the process of opening up democracy also falls, as we have seen in a number of countries in recent years. Once again, this is also happening here in Europe. In Norway, the proportion of the population in political parties has been more than half since 1980. The share that is active in batches is reduced by two-thirds, from 7 pst. from 1983 to 2 p.m. in 2014. We believe that this development gives cause for concern, and that it should be met actively with concrete measures – measures that strengthen popular participation in democracy, which reduce the distance between people and the elected people, and which ensure that matters that are important to the population are not overlooked by politicians. That's exactly what we can achieve by opening up so that most people can make suggestions for treatment on the Stortinget. The foreseeable objection is that ordinary people are not competent enough to propose large-scale decisions. I totally disagree with that. Too often, on the contrary, politicians do not follow closely enough and do not catch up with the problems most people face. Let me do an example. The politicians who have adopted a number of welfare measures in recent years cannot possibly know what it is like to be in a job with worn-out knees and worn-out back and mind. They can't possibly know what it means for the safety of a single-parent when power prices rise and the job is threatened by low-wage competition. But they know that. That is why Red wants people to get rid of their proposals for solutions. Establishing the Constitutional duty of the Great Britain to deal with the people's proposals is essentially a matter of opening up democracy to most people. It has also been argued that such a proposal would burden Stortinget. Fortunately, there's little reason to worry about it. Because although Red's proposals will be an innovation for our democracy, they are also based on solid experience from both domestic and foreign countries. In Norway, citizens have the right to promote treatment proposals in the local government and county council, and this is provided for by the municipal law. Among the conditions to be met is that at least 2 pst. the support of the proposal is granted by the citizens or by 300 persons. Then the local authority or county council is obliged to decide on it. This scheme has already been positively evaluated by both the Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research and the Rokkan Centre, which concludes that the scheme is not a burden on county councils or municipalities, and not least by local politicians who have been asked in the survey, with a total of 67 pst. felt that the system strengthened local democracy. Denmark and Switzerland have put in place similar arrangements to deal with citizens’ proposals in their respective elected assemblies. In Denmark, the civil proposal scheme was introduced at Folketinget in 2018. Originally, it was a testing scheme to last until January 2020. The experience in Denmark is that citizens have succeeded in promoting important proposals for treatment in the Folketing, without causing any overloading of the population or neglecting the parliamentary functions. That is why the Folketing decided in 2019 to make this arrangement permanent, and it promises well. In 2019, Red promoted a proposal for a representative to introduce an appeal procedure on citizens’ proposals through the Stortinge Rules of Procedure. However, the Presidency of the Grand Duchy, which examined the proposal, considered that the best way to proceed was to have a broader public debate based on the Constitutional Bill we are discussing here today, in order to assess whether citizens' proposals can be introduced. Historically, enlargements of democracy have always encountered resistance, but in retrospect we have all agreed that enlargement was wise and necessary anyway. So now we know that the experience from Denmark and Norwegian municipalities and counties suggests that giving people the right to propose treatment in Stortinget will not lead to a great burden or be at the expense of the existing democratic functions of Stortinget, and that the test system in Denmark has thus been so successful that it was made permanent. The impressive majority that was introduced in Denmark consisted of the Danish sister party of most of the parties here at Stortinget, from the Red to the Advance Party. Now Red believes it is time for Norway to follow suit. It is our turn to further develop democracy and make it even more relevant to people most and more robust in meeting with the time we live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e522	I actually drew myself just to join what the representative Aydar has said, and to say that this is a very good proposal from Red. We see that participation in the usual political channels is decreasing, while the distance to political decisions is increasing. An example is the centralisation of counties and municipalities. But what is particularly worrying is that both electoral participation and party membership are something we see evenly and thoughtfully have gone down in the last decades. The abstinence with which people sit is something we have to take seriously. Because when people feel that the political decisions are taken are too far, that it is too difficult to influence politics, and not least that people are sitting with an opinion that politicians are not listening, then it is quite inconceivable. The best way to meet growing remorse is to give people more power and new ways to be able to influence more. SV has made its own proposal where we are proposing people's proposals or citizens' proposals, as in this Red proposal, but in addition we are proposing to open up the possibility of promoting matters and proposals for referendums from below, i.e. citizens-initiated referendums. I'll tell you later. The reason why we've put both parts of that proposal, which it might be good to mention now, is that it would be wise for the provisions we put into the Basic Law on Public Participation to regulate both variants, which at least SV wants, so that it relates in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e530	No more people have asked for the word for Constitutional Bill 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e537	The proposal is simple as follows: «Member States may not impose taxes or charges on legal work carried out in proceedings pending before the courts.» - So simple and so short. At the 2014 Constitutional Audit, we believe that the reason behind the original provision was not sufficiently considered when the Constitutional Law issued what was then § 98, which was actually also a principle that the State should not charge access to legal aid. Firstly, the aim of the proposal is that people do not have to pay VAT on legal fees. However, they should also not risk having to pay VAT on the salaries of lawyers when these are payments for services provided by lawyers in connection with legal proceedings. A person who addresses a lawyer and asks for the lawyer's assistance to promote e.g. a claim for compensation, must pay the lawyer a fee which today entails a supplement of 25 p.m. We do not believe it is reasonable that the State should serve the state business of justice. Before the change in 2014, there was a slightly old-fashioned provision, which reads as follows: ‘With Sportler, paid to the Registrar of the Court of First Instance, no fees to the Treasury should be linked.’ The provision had then remained unchanged in the Constitution since its adoption in 1814. This provision of 1814 had a very good example, namely the French Constitution of 1790, which also established the principle that the State should not levy fees on judicial services. Its history was that it should promote legal certainty. It was the freedom of citizens and the right to fair justice that was behind the provision. In addition, it was based on the fact that the State would not profit from the court. The changes in the way of expression that occurred during the preparation must be seen as an attempt to express correctly what was meant. Sportler was the remuneration for the provision of legal services. These services were carried out by ‘legal servants’, which it referred to as the language of the time. These included the judges and lawyers, the lawyers and the lawyers. Its background in the French constitution of 1790 and the way to its final design in the 17th May basic law clearly show that it was desirable that the State should not, by means of its taxes and taxes, distort the legal framework. The principle of free administration of justice was formulated in a concrete and practical way, in line with the pragmatic approach of the owner-volls to basic legislation. When Stortinget lifted the provision in 2014, the reason was that it had only historical interest because it was seen most in connection with the principle of the independence and independence of the courts, which was then given a separate provision. The fact that the principal and Ideological basis of the provision was also that the State was not to serve on the legal basis was not a problem when working on the considerable amount of changes that occurred during the 2014 anniversary. The fact that legal services are currently generally subject to VAT has been addressed by the Law Association, but this has not led to changes in the tax legislation. The Ombudsman has addressed this question in several of his annual reports. This means that legal services are generally charged a fee of 25 pst. For the ordinary woman and man will have an addition of 25 pst. for what is paid to the lawyer, be a significant financial burden. For the lawyer, who can subtract this amount from his business, that doesn't mean much. However, there is also an unreasonable inequality between clients. Business clients, for example, can deduct legal expenses from their accounts and thus reduce the basis for taxation, while private individuals have to pay the tax on already taxed funds in order to have their case safely promoted. Now that the old provision on athletes has been repealed, there is still a question of whether non-free access to justice is part of the Constitution's spirit and principles, cf. Article 121 of the Constitution. Paragraph 98 referred to its role model in the French Constitution, and after that the legal basis would be free of charge. Today, Section 95 of the Basic Law states: ‘Every person has the right to have his or her case decided by an independent and impartial court within a reasonable period of time. The procedure shall be fair and public.’;» In our opinion, it is not fair and reasonable for the state to impose a tax of 25 pst. on the part of the general woman and of the man shall pay to his lawyer in a dispute dealt with by the courts. This means that the state is now serving in court and thus making it harder and harder for the ordinary citizen to have access to the courts. I will end with the example we discussed during an interpellation debate in the fall session. It was about the violent lecturer at the Oslo School of Commerce who lost in several courts even though the court addressed a clear criticism to the school and the systems they had, which was not satisfactory when it came to the safety of teachers against violence. But it was not demonstrated qualified negligence, and therefore he formally lost the matter, even though he won morally at all points. Finally, he left with a bill of 1.7 million. kr. In fact, the municipality attorney had not charged VAT, because that is the rule, but 300,000 of the 1.7 million. So kr was VAT to the State. You can look up the matter and see that at that violent incident, where the Municipality of Oslo used the services of the municipal attorney and the school administration for free, with enormous resources and with a huge asymmetry in power conditions, a charge of NOK 300,000 is imposed on the private party. That does not seem fair to the proposers. Such a constitutional provision will restore a minor error made in 2014. The inclusion of this in the Constitution will now be in accordance with the original provision and spirit of the Constitution. In addition, in a society where more than one case depends on the audience being able to bring its case before the courts because we have more legalisation of society, this will also be a contribution. We can say that we have legal aid schemes, but they are often targeted at specific target groups. There are also certain concerns about first making access to our courts so expensive that the state can finally choose which groups and actions it wishes to promote, precisely because someone has a free pass, while others have to pay a surcharge to the state. This proposal will remedy that situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e584	No more people have asked for the word for the Constitutional Amendment 31.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e591	The proposal is worded as follows: ‘No public action must intervene in the sphere of freedom of a citizen if the intervention is disproportionate. In assessing what is disproportionate, consideration shall be given to the individual’s disadvantage weighted against the benefits that justify the intervention. Consideration shall be given to the appropriateness of the intervention, where necessary, and to the existence of less interventional instruments to achieve equivalent benefit.’;» In Norwegian theory of law, it has been claimed from time to time to exist a so-called proportionality principle when discussing the limits to which the State and its bureaucracy must be subject in order to protect a core area of citizens’ freedom from excessive interference. A modern, complex society needs many forms of intervention in the sphere of freedom of individuals and businesses. These may come in a contrast where the desire for social regulation on the one hand is contrary to personal freedom on the other. In particular, in the case of Norwegian administrative law, there have been differing views on the existence of such a principle or on the existence of a collective concept, including reference to different legal bases, which have the same meaning as protecting citizens from the arbitrary nature of the authorities. It has been raised beyond doubt that the principle of proportionality as such is only sporadic and has not been given any clear legal dogmatic content. The current perception of Norwegian administrative law is that the courts do not impose methodological requirements on how the administration uses its own discretion, but are careful to check whether it has been exercised within the framework of the law. The proposers point out that our legal development is influenced by other, external, legal formations such as international law, human rights and EU law, all of which are given increased space in the Norwegian legal source image. In the areas implementing Union law under the EEA Agreement, there should be no doubt about this. But there will also be an impact in other areas. In a cutting edge article on the principle of proportionality in administrative law, written by Hans Petter Graver in 1995, ‘Administrative proportionality as a requirement for the discretionary decisions of the administration’, a hypothesis is made that the Supreme Court has established a general requirement that the discretionary decisions of the administration should be proportionate, i.e. that the competence to take decisions is to be used only to the extent necessary for the purpose and where the benefits exceed the disadvantages. Graves believed that the principle of proportionality, which has been a central theme in five Supreme Court judgments, provided the basis for such a theory, developed in retrospect. Not in any of the decisions referred to, the Supreme Court uses the explicit word proportionality. Instead, the Court has chosen to determine what the content of a principle of proportionality should be. However, Graver does not see the judgments as an expression of a planned development of a legal principle over time, as the court has only taken a decision on specific questions. The reason why this proposal is more topical than before is that we have received the Administrative Law Committee’s investigation, NOU 2019: 5, on new administrative law. They reflect on proportionality, in particular for the purpose of intervening management decisions: ‘In some contexts, a requirement for proportionality is on the clean side. The requirement may be directly based on the regulatory basis or may result from the ECHR or from EEA law.’.» The committee then points out that in Sweden and Finland, administrative courts have a different tradition than in Norway for the review of administrative relationships. They conclude that it is therefore not ‘natural to introduce into the Norwegian Administrative Act the solution chosen by the Swedish and Finnish laws’. So this selection has simply taken the life of the legal theory that some of our lawyers had derived from the practice of the Supreme Court on a general proportionality standard, even in Norwegian law. Because there has never been a premise or a prerequisite for a proportionality standard that it should be enforced by an administrative court. So the fact that the Swedes and Finns have it – and we don't – is no argument against the principle of proportionality. General administrative legal standards can also be enforced by ordinary courts. For example, it has never been an argument for or against the existence of an unlawful principle of proportionality that we do not have specialised courts to enforce it. The proposers believe that after the presentation in NOU 2019: 5 it has not become a minor need to clarify that the principle of proportionality is a recognised legal principle, and we want to give it an explicit basis, as a basic legal standard in our constitution. Basic law also means that a requirement of proportionality not only becomes a minimum content of administrative decisions, but also a general standard for the protection of individual citizens in all public regulation production which is an integral part of the freedom of citizens, whether it is law or regulation. Nav legislation is one of several examples of the fact that, in so far as discussions of proportionality are carried out at all, a single law, promoted by a single department of trade, will always conclude that a single law is very necessary for the purpose of the department. We have a legislative technique that allows each departmental special interest to be particularly strong, without having a broader balance. Then it is an advantage to have a norm that citizens can ultimately rely on for how individual interventions work against them in their everyday lives. It will be the last quality test of the incredibly large legal work that this assembly is doing during a session. That's exactly the way we want it to be in a state of law, that it's the effect on the individual level of the countless legislative decisions taken in this room, which will be decisive for whether we have good justice or not. It is therefore possible to promote, through a general rule of law on proportionality, also a higher standard, which future law-consipists have to consider before promoting new sectoral laws to the Storting. I would also like to mention that a good part of the development of justice and part of the application of law takes place completely outside the control of the Storting. It has been arranged so that the administration can impose more than before what has to be regarded as punishment. We also see that, through the law on powers, there are many legal rules that are laid down at levels below the legal level that the Stortinget is supposed to know. For these regulations, too, how they work in practice, it is of great interest to measure against the principles of proportionality, as they may interfere with the everyday life of the individual. It is recognised, not least by the Frøiland Committee, which was the predecessor of the Harberg Committee, which is currently working on the control of government by the Stortinge. The Frøiland Committee was also concerned that there is insufficient basis for applying the regulatory range resulting from delegated legal acts. Just because Stortinget does not know in detail how legislation actually becomes – and with the effects it has on its citizens – it is important to have a minimum standard of proportionality at last. It will therefore ensure legal certainty and predictability and develop a legal understanding of these principles. That's what's behind the proposal. We hope that those who are otherwise in this Chamber become spokespersons of ordinary people – who can at some time feel remorse for political decisions; we have heard of some in the speeches today – at least on this occasion seize the opportunity to vote for this Constitutional proposal, which will increase the legal certainty of our fellow citizens in a rule jungle and an interventional jungle over which the Stortinget no longer has a full overview.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e639	Several have not asked for the floor for draft Constitutional Law 32.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e646	There are many proposals that have been discussed here today, but I think this is one of the most important proposals, which it should be quite natural that a person should have been included in the Constitution. The food soil here to land is a vulnerable, but especially necessary resource. Large area of food soil, which takes several hours to push away with machines, takes thousands of years to process. The food soil in Norway provides food production, housing and employment throughout the country. The food soil has a special feature because it strengthens both food security and is decisive for other societal developments. If Norway compares to neighbouring countries, Norway has clearly less land with cultivated land. Therefore, the food soil is a basic common resource that needs an own basic law protection. After the Second World War, the re-disposal of cultivated and arable land has covered about 1.2 million people in total. Most of this is the area that has been well suited for food grain production. I want to remind you that the food soil is just 1 pst. of Norwegian territory. Most cities and agglomerations in Norway with population growth are surrounded by cultivated land. A lot of the best soil is where the expansion press is the largest. More than half of the degradation occurs in or around agglomerations. This creates challenges for the preservation of soil resources for the future, when it is desirable to maximise the pooling of existing cities and agglomerations. The best food soil in central districts is gone for housing, shopping malls and roads. At the same time, today's agricultural policy has led the more heavy-powered soil – small cadastral parcels, steep terrain – out of operation. That's how we've had a permanent loss of ability to produce food for our own people. There are about 10 million covers of agricultural land – full-grown land, surface land and inland land – in operation in Norway today. In addition, Norway has about 12.5 million crops of arable land. But the production potential of the cultivated soil is, in some cases, less than the current agricultural area. It is therefore crucial that the wording of the Constitution includes both cultivated and cultivated land. The majority decided on 8 December 2015 that the annual target for the restocking of cultivated land should be set at 4000 dekars. This was reconfirmed by the handling of a proposal for a representative on stricter soil protection targets in the Stortinget on 4 June 2020. Many people think that this goal is too high and want a zero vision for the loss of cultivated land. When you follow, not least in nations, who have had a lot of focus on this with cultivated land lately, you see how it is handled around. I can take, for example, Time Municipality on Jären, where they are always taking more of the best soil we have in Norway, for various expansions, for example. reason for the fact that there is a big trafokiosk in the vicinity, so one has to use the capacity. There's always a good purpose that makes the exact earth here take place. But we cannot continue so that total soil protection loses for so-called good purposes. This is about the duration of the future, for the potential for food production. Good management of cultivated and cultivated land is entirely fundamental to food production and thus to human existence. The agricultural area is only 3.7 pst. of the land area in Norway. These areas form a button resource, which requires a strong protection. The agricultural area is a long-term resource that we need to protect to ensure national food security. We can do that by giving cultivated and cultivated land a place in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e667	Several have not asked for the word for Constitutional Amendment 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e675	It is that both wealth and power are gathered on fewer hands than before. When the economic elite is left with an increasingly large part of the pie, it also means power over society in terms of resources and ownership. In politics, too, decisions are centralised and moved further away from people. Everything from the coercion of states to the conclusion of trade agreements that move power from the people elected into closed chambers is pictures of it. Extending democracy and giving ordinary people more power over society is necessary, and this proposal shows that it is also possible. Representative democracy is strong in Norway. Let there be no doubt about it. Nevertheless, electoral participation in major elections has gone somewhat steadily and downwards from around 85 p.m.. in peak year 1965 down to 78 pst. in 2017. At the same time, and even more dramatically, the number of members, particularly active members, in political parties has fallen sharply in the last 20 years. We see the same thing in many other countries we can compare with, where confidence in political institutions also goes down over time. I see the same thing when I'm at home and visit e.g. Alvim in Sarpsborg. It is the constituency in Norway that has had the lowest turnout multiple times. When I ask people there what they think about politics and politicians, the message is quite clear: politics is something that's happening far away, politicians don't listen to them, and ordinary people can't affect what's going on. What's so interesting is that while we see this growing political debate and lowered participation, international research shows that the emergence of democratic values, such as democracy. free choice, strengthened very clearly. It's not like the people are turning their backs on democracy. These are not common people's faults. No, it is politics that does not meet the expectations of ordinary people for an even stronger rule of the people. It is not the people who are not democratic enough, it is the policy that is not democratic enough. The result is the amputated people I meet, for example. At home on Alvim, tells us about. How are you supposed to meet that amputation? Yes, of course by giving power. This proposal is about extending democracy by making it more participatory, so that people themselves can raise matters to squares, to deal with the Biggest or to refer to referendums. It significantly reduces the distance to power, and it gives people more influence over politics itself. It comes as an addition to the representative system we already have today, and it does not least give the Storting a still important role in dealing with and following up the matters that the people themselves have to raise. We propose to make our People's Rule more participatory in two ways. People's proposals are the first. As with the citizens' initiative for local government and county councils, where people can collect signatures to raise a case there, we believe that people should be able to raise cases in the same way to the Stortinget, with sufficient support, for example. with support from 1 pst. by the voters. There we have set up a few different options in this proposal. Then Stortinget will deal with the matter as we deal with other matters today. The other way we're proposing to make the government more participatory is by referendums from below. If a proposal has enough popular support, enough signatures, there will be a vote in the people on the proposal. We're once again proposing different options on how many signatures are required, from 2 pst. to 8 pst. by the voters. Then the result is again dealt with by the Storting in the usual way, i.e. an initiative for an advisory referendum coming from below. This enables ordinary people to raise important issues on the agenda – the agenda power is important – and trigger a vote so that the views of the majority can also be made clear. What will it really look like, with both referendums and referendums from below? Well, that would mean that things that might not be captured so well in the usual, representative party policy can be lifted by people themselves. I think there are enough cases in recent years where the population population is different from the majority of population, where this could be seen – the rail reform, the sale and privatisation of Norwegian rail, the introduction of the Acer and the EU's third energy package, the regional reform, the coercion of counties, to mention something. I think those matters and many others are matters of great public commitment that could get an extra channel into power through popular proposals and referendums from below. There is a lot about the proposal in this document on both a number of principles and a number of practical aspects about how it can be done in practice. I would say that among all the proposals that Stortinget has dealt with on more use of referendums, this is among those that are best worked through, whether I can say it myself. I'm not going to mention everything now, but some important things. The proposal sets out very clearly what can be the subject of referendums and referendums, and it is linked to the authority of the Stortinge today. People's proposals and referendums should be promoted on what the Storting has the competence to decide today, nothing else. In addition, we make it very clear that referendums cannot deal with any specific issues in particular. We connect the new provisions we propose in the Constitution, with the current § 75, which thus lists what is the responsibility and authority of the Stortinge today. Some of the items on that list are not very suitable for referenda, and it is then exempted, for example: the taking up of loans, state budgets or the appointment of national auditors and ombudsman, to mention some of the obvious examples. The State budget is mentioned because it is a recognition that it is important in a budget to address the whole of the budget and to see both revenue and expenditure as a whole. The more important is the delimitation of the fact that a referendum cannot propose anything that violates our international obligations. It may concern them, such as requiring veto against an EU directive, it is within the EEA Agreement but does not break those obligations. Nor can it break the other provisions of the Basic Law. It ensures important minority protection, the protection of human rights and international law, so that the majority cannot infringe minority rights. A number of the practical aspects of how these proposals are to be addressed shall be specified in law. There may be formal requirements for the people's proposals, how often similar proposals can be promoted again, etc. Most of it must be mentioned in this proposal. I'm not going to list everything right now, but the point is two things. The first is that this has been reworked, so that the practical and principal should be clearly mentioned for the Storting to assess. The second is that the result of adopting this proposal, of introducing people's proposals and referendums from below, will be to strengthen and extend our people's rule, to make it more participatory, to give ordinary people more influence over the agenda and the decisions taken. It's both necessary and possible. In a time of increasing abstinence among people, the answer must be more power to ordinary people. Me and SV believe that the decisions are best when they're taken with their shoes on, when the distance from politics gets shorter, and that's exactly what socialist people's government is all about for SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e709	Several have not asked for the word for Constitutional Amendment 24.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e716	The Constitution obliges the State of law of Norway to preserve the rights of its citizens, so that they can function equally in society. It's both civil and political rights, and it's social and economic rights. So some of the rights described in the Constitution now are also of the kind of more material rights, such as the right to work, for example, and to a healthy environment. In addition, some provisions restrict the right of authorities to intervene in the lives of individuals. The Constitution requires the state to respect human rights. The reason why I'm saying this is that I think it shows that the Constitution has a value anchor in taking care of the individual human being in society and making sure that they are able to function in society. It's very central in the Constitution how the individual's position is seen. One can, of course, discuss the extent to which the right to work, for example, has been respected in practice. It is quite difficult also to say how to get it into practice. But this constitution is about housing, and with housing it is quite different, because housing is a physical, material thing, which the state can actually provide, and which the state can have an obligation to make available to its inhabitants. You can also look out the window here today and see that this country is a place where you actually have to have a dwelling. It's certainly not advisable for most of us not to have a roof over our heads. In addition, if you don't have a home and an address, it's also very difficult to realise your civil and political rights, because when we're going to deal with the authorities, it's very much, both our rights and our obligations, depending on an address and that you actually have a place to live. The social side of it I think is completely obvious to everyone -- the security it is to have a home and a dwelling. Unfortunately, despite the climate in which we live, there have been many people who have been homeless in Norway over time – and probably now. With the evolution we also see in the housing market in the future, this is gradually a rather unattainable good for many people. SV believes that if we get this right into the Constitution, that is, a material right to housing, it will oblige the state in a different way from today to ensure a completely necessary prerequisite for almost surviving in this society, namely having a dwelling. It will also oblige the State, through the underlying law, to ensure this material right on which humans are completely dependent, because it is an absolutely necessary and indispensable good in everyday life. I also think that this is something that it is possible to fulfill for the state. It's actually possible to do that, because it's a physical thing, but for some of the other rights to be guaranteed, you do of course the best you can, but it's a little hard actually to point out that you can manage to fulfill the other material rights that are grounded. That is why we are proposing this again, because we believe that it is such a fundamental material good that is necessary to be able to exercise their civil and political rights even in a way that makes it possible for individuals to function equally in society – that housing is a good enough to realise the civil and political and social and economic rights that we believe it must be incorporated into the Constitution. That's why we're resuming this proposal. I hope that the Storting will consider this a little more thoroughly than what they have done before, because it is very difficult to see how this would damage at all. It will, of course, oblige the state more than it does today, but society will be better, and many more of our citizens could then be absolutely sure that they will also have their civil and political rights possible, because they are totally dependent on a dwelling to realize them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e737	Several have not asked for the word for Constitutional Amendment 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e744	When the Stortinge in 2014 dealt with the inclusion of human rights in the Constitution, a large and thorough investigation was made, the so-called Wage Selection. On 19 December 2011, that sample submitted a report to the Presidency: Document 16 for 2011–2012. It is assessed whether there is a basis for the constitutionalisation of the asylum institution. The selection writes, and I quote: ‘If the human rights provisions of the Basic Law are to mark and specify the values on which the Norwegian society is based, it can be argued that the right to apply for asylum should be included in the Constitution. The right of asylum is part of our Christian and humanistic heritage, as referred to in the Basic Law, Section 2, by providing protection to people in flight from persecution. Such protection may be granted only if those persons also have the right to apply for asylum.’;» However, the committee considered that the right to asylum was a little difficult and argued that it would make the right of asylum less flexible for the actual changes that are taking place on an ongoing basis. That very reason SV – and I – believe is a separate reason why this should be enshrined in the Constitution. The human rights and the international conventions to which we have joined are international cooperation to try to civilise how countries should behave internally against their own citizens, but also some driving rules between countries when there are critical situations. We can, for example: take other types of obligations relating to the behaviour of countries in the event of conflicts. It must regulate how to deal with, inter alia: other people who are not residents of their own country, in a critical situation — perhaps for the country, but also for the person concerned. The reason why I say this is that these rules are simple to deal with on a sunny day, when there are no problems. It's when there's conflict and it's hard, you have this kind of driving code that guarantees the lives of individuals – because that's what this is all about. There are few other rights that are more fundamental than in such a critical situation to get out of a territory where life is threatened, and into a territory where life can be safe. That is precisely why, because these provisions are not to be dealt with by countries in a critical situation, it is so important that they are stated in the Constitution, because they are about life and death, and because they are about an attempt by the international community to also civilise the actions of countries in critical situations. I am not saying this because I believe it is simple – not at all. It's very, very difficult. It's very demanding for countries. Many of these situations are extremely demanding. But that's why it's so important. We believe that that conclusion and the opinion of the Human Rights Committee are unfortunate. We will show you, among other things: that the core of the right of asylum has been interpreted into the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights. Like many other central rights, which the Human Rights Committee also proposed to establish in law, the right of asylum has not now been expressed in the constitutions of Western countries. We believe that this is unfortunate for the reasons I have just mentioned. There is also a need to attach this right, i.e. the right to apply for asylum – not the right to asylum, but the right to apply for asylum – to the Constitution, because we have also seen that that right has been set aside on European soil in recent years. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees has also recently reported that this right has been violated, even though most European countries have committed themselves to it. In addition, I would like to point out that the Association of Lawyers, the Human Rights Committee of the Association of Judges, what was previously called the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights, at the University of Oslo, and Jussbuss have also supported this proposal, because they see the same principleal, important justification for what SV does.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e764	There is always a balance between how much to comment on these proposals – I could also comment on the previous, so-called right to reasonable housing. And why not fundamental rights to water, food and heating in our country – at all? But in particular to this proposal: there was some, let us say, interesting allegations from the representative Karin Andersen. If we look at SV's practice, it's been two-part. They have worked a long time to erode the very institution of asylum, to make it a matter of something other than people who are on the run, described in the international conventions that took place after World War II, because SV has a different view of migration. I would recommend SV to work a little bit more with the legal definitions here, because, as Karin Andersen's posts said, it's not at all those with international legal requirements for asylum, that is, at the given stay, which is her business, it's a procedural principle to be able to apply. It must then be sufficiently precise to say that the right of residence extends beyond the first safe country to which a refugee comes. Asylum and refugee are the same here, in this context. SV wants to combine its eroded use of the concepts of asylum seekers and will then directly enshrine the rights of this group in the Constitution. Only for those reasons will this proposal never get a majority in this Chamber. Of course, it's a political sign that SV wants a migration based on notions that it creates better conditions in the world, but we haven't had an international right at any time that means that because of, we should say, poverty or social conditions, climate or other, people have the right to migrate to the countries they point out on the world map. So, of course, this is a political exercise. I think maybe we should reserve the basic legislative proposals for proposals that we actually believe have a positive impact on ordinary citizens in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e775	What the representative Tetzschner says is wrong. SV does not want to erode the asylum institution. But in relation to some of those issues, we also have other international obligations, such as the Children's Convention, the right to family, which is in our constitution, and we have the European Convention on Human Rights, which also gives some rights, to which Norway is even more committed. It is linked to some of these issues that we have a different view of how the right of asylum or the right to stay in Norway is to be practised, than what the Right has, and what the representative Michael Tetzschner has. What we want with this case is to legislate for the right to apply for asylum. And yes, it's going to be in the first country, but when there's war and conflict, the world is sometimes a little bit difficult, and a little bit harder than it is for us sitting here now. So turning this into a debate about strict or liberal migration policy is completely wrong. We have a lot of migration to Norway, most of it is labour immigration, and that's not what we're talking about here at all. Here we are talking about the right to apply for asylum. That in the assessment of some of the cases, critical attention should also be given to, for example: The provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the SV believes that we are obliged to – but that is not what this case is about. We will focus on what is stated in the Constitution, that people have the right to be with family – and not limit it, as the Right and the Government have done, to set so high income requirements and requirements for so long stays that children almost cannot see their parents until they are adults, that's SV against – but that's not what this case is about. It's not that we should respect the obligations we have after the EMK either, because we should, and I expect that to be right, too. No, this case is about what the Human Rights Committee also took a position on, discussed and had good arguments for, but concluded against, because they thought it might be difficult to practice in a difficult situation. Yeah, that's it, and that's exactly why it should be in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e782	This exersis was to be unnecessary in the country's elected assembly of legislators, but the representative Karin Andersen's posts just show that she has not considered what happens when the Storting expresses a general legal norm laid down in the Constitution. It is precisely that it takes precedence over all the other provisions that we have, and that it will bind on the future legislative work of the Storting. What is the problem in this case is that SV basically infects the principle that it is a country's legal authority that decides at any time who has legal residence in Norway, in addition to the citizens who are here. That's what makes you constitute a state, that's that you can control the boundaries. Then it is true that Norway has acceded to many beautiful and important conventions, and it should be more than enough for the representative Andersen and like-minded to work to make sure that we meet them – there must also certainly be some work done. But taking SV's hollowed out, the worms, to unrecognizability changed the use of the word asylum and refugee and entering the Constitution is not good lawmaking, and it certainly does not belong in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e792	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate on the proposal and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e797	To that it is said that the representative Tetzschner does not hear what is being said, or is willing to see what is being proposed. Firstly, the right to family is included in our constitution. Nevertheless, the government reserves the right to pursue a policy that allows very many not to be with their families. It is a reality. So if you take this right into the Constitution, that doesn't mean that the underlying law can't be strict or it can be liberal. There are full possibilities, but this is about the principle of having the right to apply for asylum, the right to ask for protection for their lives if they believe that life is in danger. I just record that the representative from the Right does not think it is an important right. For SV, it's a very basic right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e802	Others have not asked for the floor for a draft Constitutional Law 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e809	Throughout the history of our democracy, we have chosen on several points to expand who is allowed to be elected to the People's Rule, through the right to vote. It's about sex, it's about class background, and it's about age. Looking back in history, every expansion of democracy, every extension of voting rights, has been met with resistance and debated for several rounds, but finally it has won, and everyone seems to agree that of course these groups must have voting rights. Some of the reasons why SV continues to promote this proposal on 16-year voting rights include: that young people are significantly under-represented in policies, both young people and young adults. This is what we see in Stortinget, and we see it around municipal government and county councils. We also saw the last time we conducted a 16-year vote in municipal elections, which was in 2015, that giving young people and young people the opportunity to vote in elections increased the representation of young politicians. In the municipalities where the pilot scheme was implemented in 2015, it became 50 pst. more elected under 25 years of age. It's very joyful, and it shows that if young people are given more influence, younger people are elected into elected positions, and it's positive in itself because our democracy is to represent and mirror the population in the best possible way. I will mention some of the classic objections to extending the age of voting rights. One of them is, why exactly 16 years old? There are several reasons for this, and one of the most important is that when you turn 15, you can be punished under the penal code in Norway. I believe it is an important principle that if you can be punished, you should also be able to influence and choose the politicians who determine the law you are being punished by. So it points to an argument that there has to be similarity between the different, let's say for simplicity, the age limits we're operating on, that for example. Age of voting rights must correspond to age of authority. In that case, it's an extremely hollow principle because it definitely doesn't apply to all things. Just to take one important example: to be a Supreme Court judge, you have to be 30 years old. It is also not linked to the age of authority, so that counter-argument I believe is weak. Youth participation in elections has been discussed through, what this would have to say for the election, and then it is very happy to see what the result was from the trial scheme back in 2015. For the 16- and 17-year-olds who voted, their turnout was only just below the average for all ages nationally. Finally, some point to maturity, fitness and that this should occur from a certain age. But I've seen in the last two years that youth really shows maturity, I also want to say leadership, to perhaps greater extent than the good adult politicians do. Because when young people have been out and striked for their future, through school strikes, it shows two things: it shows that the youth generation has a great commitment – that is important, about electoral participation – but it shows the ability to take leadership, to show maturity and to engage, which for me is a good example of why introducing 16-year voting is wise and sensible. I hope it will be with this proposal as with the previous extension of voting age throughout history. There are multiple promotions and resistances, but finally we come together and extend democracy to even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e824	From the Left, we will support the proposal to extend voting rights to 16 years. We put this into a long tradition in the history of the Left from 1884 with a struggle to extend the voting rights, so that an increasingly large part of the population would have the opportunity and the right to vote. This was an important battle for the 1880s enlargements. In 1898, we obtained voting rights for men over the age of 25 and in 1913 general voting rights for all over the age of 25. In 1919, the poor also received voting rights. We got an extension in 1920, when the vote was set at 23 years. In 1946 it was set at 21 years, in 1967 it was reduced to 20 years and in 1978 to 18 years. I see no reason why this is not extended to 16 years of voting, and there are three reasons for that. One is that if you're 19 or 17, we think of it as an individual right. The decisions we take here on the Storting concern everyone, including 16-18-year-olds of course, and they should have the right to be present and to choose their representatives by making a conscious election in the same way that we do today. The second reason is the weighting between population groups as demography changes. We have an increasingly older population, and the young get relatively fewer. I think with 16 years of voting, one will not only get a right for the individual; those who are in that age group will also get more attention from the parties in an election campaign because they are voters with voting rights. For those who are young today, it can be felt that we who have the right to vote, the older part of the population, are with and deprived of their future opportunities. It may be when there are important choices for a country, such as in the United Kingdom by Brexit, when it was largely the older part of the population who chose to withdraw from European cooperation, while a large part of the younger population still wants to be part of the EU, but is required to make a major change in the direction of the country at the choice made. But perhaps the situation with the biggest challenges facing us and the world – a climate disaster and a natural disaster that needs to be addressed and addressed – is yet another reason why younger voters, down to 16 years, should be given voting rights. After all, it is all those who have to live the longest with the decisions we are making today, and it is a future that they themselves should be involved in shaping and thus participating in shaping what is largely the basis for their own freedom in the years to come. I hope that we will also follow up the story of having more and more people take part in democracy through the right to vote and also follow it up by lowering the age of voting to 16 years in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e837	Several have not asked for the word for Constitutional Amendment 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e844	Norway Bank was launched in 1816 and is one of the oldest central banks in the world. From 1814 on, in November’s foundation, § 110 concluded that “Norway retains its own Bank and its own Money and Coin Service”. With this commitment, Norway was to secure a self-employed social security fund in the personnel union with Sweden. The words were fixed until 1911. At that time, the paragraph was used for the foundation of the State Reserve Fund, the fund that was liquidated in 1925. Following the initiative of the then State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Morten Søberg, Professor Eivind Smith Hausten wrote in 2011 a thorough state-law settlement on the foundation of Norway Bank. The distribution was delivered to the Ministry of Finance on 22 December and later submitted by Document 12:29 for 2011–2012, proposal for a new Section 33 of Grundlova, on the foundational law of Norway Bank. The proposal to reassert Norway’s Bank was agreed by 158 votes to 8 votes in favour on 24 May 2016. In 2020, the Norwegian Bank paragraph was moved to § 120a. Since 1816, Norway Bank has had a representation of 15 members elected by the Stortinget. The derogation is the period of occupation 1940-1945. The ship has healed solid while the role of the body has changed in relation to changes in the law of Norway Bank. When a new central bank law became applicable on 1 January 2020, Norway’s Bank would still have a large-scale representation. The bill emphasises the ‘obligation of the representative to report to the Storting on the supervision of the bank’. The representation is thus both an organ of the Norwegian Bank and part of the overall supervisory function of the Stortinget. Paragraph 75(c) of the Constitution states that it belongs to the Stortinget to ‘responsible the State’. The former have been the same since 1814, while the trustee has changed according to the time and time. Now the seats and coins issued and embossed by the Norwegian Bank make up an ever smaller proportion of the money. Most of the money is now electronic money in bank accounts and savings banks. Central bank law states that Norway’s Bank is obliged to ‘maintain a stable monetary value’, whatever the type of Norwegian money it is. Another important feature of the development of operations in Norway Bank is the increasing role played by the management of State pension funds abroad after the first intrusion was made in 1996. The fund is managed under the direction of the King and the Department. After the decision in Stortinget, the government budget is subject to transfers from the fund in accordance with the State pension fund law. The large-scale representation is an important part of the group’s supervision of the Treasury and the operations of Norway’s Bank. The completion of the institution's representation in the new central bank law has now made it most appropriate to adopt a constitutional paragraph covering this supervision today. A fundamental law will close the future amendments or practices that prevent the representation from effectively supervising Norway’s Bank. This is particularly important in view of the fact that, in the run-up to the current central bank law, a whole future question mark for representation was identified. Since the representation has been chosen by and controls on behalf of the Stortinget, the representation has much in common with the external control bodies of the Stortinget. Of these control bodies, only the National Audit Office has existed for as long as the Representation. When the Riksrevisionen and the Civilombodsmann are incorporated in § 75(k) and (l), it is time to give the representative their legal place in the Constitution. That is how we guarantee the legitimacy of the task of supervising the representative. The proposers provide two alternatives to an updated § 75c, options 1 and 2, and two alternative proposals for a new second paragraph of § 120a, options 3 and 4. The content is the same; the question is where the representation and the supervisory functions are best viewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e867	Several have not asked for the word for Constitutional Amendment 30.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e875	It is not now apparent from the Constitution that human rights in the Constitution and everywhere else are generally balanced against other rights. There's a lot of problems with -- it just doesn't give the right idea. The most important problem is that today the Supreme Court has had to interpret an access to limitation itself. Then we lose a little bit of the point of taking human rights home, dealing with them here in the elected assembly, giving them our reasons, our remarks, our preparatorys and our own debates. We need to give clear information to the court about how we expect the Constitution to be enforced and under what conditions exceptions should apply. For exceptions will come. The only question is whether it is the elected assembly or whether it is the courts that are to interpret what sentences are to take place and how this is to be done, and not least what paragraphs should never be exempted from. So it's an independent point that it's going to be possible to understand the Constitution by reading it. Without this provision, it's not. It may weaken confidence in the Constitution and the Governments, and it does not correspond to the point of making the Constitution more accessible and understandable, as it was in the review in 2014. That is why this proposal to codify the restriction of the human rights of the Constitution that the Court already relies on. The proposal is that the new Section 113(a) is replaced by the following: ‘Any limitation of a right in this Constitution must be provided for by law, be proportionate and respect the core of each right. In no case may restrictions be made under the preceding paragraph of Sections 93, 94, 95, 96, 100, fourth paragraph, first sentence and 105. Substantial applies to § 97 in the case of a question of punishment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e893	Several have not asked for the floor for a draft Constitutional Law 36.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e900	Crisis may come. We must then be prepared, and the Constitution must also be prepared. The fundamental law-making of derogation will create a stronger bulwark against the possible degradation of democracy and the rule of law and provide a clear political and legal framework for what can be done when the crisis occurs and cannot be done once the crisis is over. This paragraph limits power and provides guidance in crisis situations. That's why the rules say that in certain crisis situations, states can derogate from human rights, but only under certain and strict conditions and only when there are any human rights. As I said before, one of Stortinget's statements is measured by the constitutional reform that you should be able to understand the Constitution by reading it. Inclusion of this paragraph will help the Constitution to describe the situation in which Norway is actually managed. In today’s situation, there is little cause for concern. But taking in this paragraph is meant to be a coup d'état and a protection against the abuse of the power of politicians who have come into this room not to give people opportunities, but to take them away from them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e913	Several have not asked for the floor for the Constitutional Law 37, and Case No. So 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e929	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines with replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e934	The fight against sexual harassment and violence in the workplace is one of the great equality struggles we have to wage with full weight in the future. Fortunately, the problem of sexual harassment was given a boost of attention related to the methotrexate campaign a few years ago, but now it has become relatively quiet again. It is we politicians who have to make sure that the metoo campaign and the attention and awareness that was created around sexual harassment at that time create lasting change. It wanted the Workers' Party and SV to do so by setting up a public body to look at the extent of harassment in all parts of society, as well as providing accurate, concrete actions in different sectors. Many think of sexual harassment. Prevention is more difficult to find. Therefore, it is necessary to do a thorough job, give the obscurity the attention it deserves, and put the problem to life through politics. So that's not going to be the right-hand side. So let's notice. With that one misses the possibility of getting a society with a little bit less harassment. It's sad, for the suppression of harassment is, as I said, one of the great equality struggles that must be fought with full strength. It is also now these days – this is March 8 – one year since the coronary animosity swept across the country. We know that the women who work in the typical women's churches, who have been on the front line against the pandemic, went to work, put themselves at risk, worked long, heavy shifts under difficult conditions for us to be safe, have received applause from balconies, but not much more. They had earned entire permanent jobs, better pay and better pensions, but they had also earned the Stortinget today decided that we should take their working conditions seriously and put down a sample that can look at the extent of harassment in the workplace. We know a lot about it being in these occupational groups, those who never got a microphone during the metoo uprising, in the occupational groups in health, cleaning, service, etc., we find the great amount of harassment and violence in the workplace. We want to look at this in a thorough way. We do not get a majority for that today. I think that's a shame. I refer to the proposals of the Workers' Party on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e949	Then the representative Anette Trettebergstien has taken up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e954	On Monday, we marked the Women's Day. It's a day that's still important to take care of, although I also want to hurry to add that it's equally important to focus on equality the 364 other days of the year. We all agree that the fight against sexual harassment is one of the major equality challenges in Norway today. Norway is the second most equal country in the world, but that does not mean, of course, that we are on target. What never ceases to surprise me, however, is that the red-green parts shoot with hail in very many directions instead of taking the time to evaluate and see what works. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee stayed with the government parties to say that a NOU on sexual harassment will be an unnecessary detour. We now have a lot of knowledge about the scope, and the important thing now is a systematisation and a quick follow-up. Sexual harassment is a serious social problem that many people face. That is why I am particularly pleased that we have received a broad majority who is now asking the government to draw up a big message on the topic. It must have a broad review of different fields of work and sectors of society, where action must also be proposed, covering all types of harassment, threats and violence. On the other hand, I am all the more surprised when SV in this case proposes to set up a public body to acquire knowledge and research on sexual harassment and make recommendations on action to do so, while the same SV three days earlier is promoting proposals for changes to the Working Environment Act to clarify employers' responsibilities to prevent and prevent workers from being subjected to sexual harassment. It seems strange to me that, on the one hand, a NOU is being asked for sexual harassment and, on the other hand, proposals for legislative changes are being made. If you mean something about wanting more knowledge, you should wait for the knowledge before concluding on what the solution is. All problems are not solved by lawmaking, and in this important work is very much about attitudes, raising awareness and making visible. I don't believe that we can borrow back and say that we have solved this by saying that, for example. has been given a greater place in the Working Environment Act. However, a key message will contribute to the systematicisation of knowledge and action, and in particular it will help keep the debate on this important topic warm.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e969	I would like to thank the representatives from SV for addressing an important topic, and I support the intentions. In 2017, Rødt and SV promoted representative proposals where they proposed several measures to strengthen the fight against sexual harassment. As the case rapporteur for these proposals for representatives, I am pleased that when we discussed this in the spring of 2018, a unanimous increase decided to strengthen the guidance and assistance provision of persons who are subjected to sexual harassment and who were to be provided by the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman. The majority therefore agreed that a low threshold offer for the enforcement of sexual harassment should be introduced, and that the Discriminatory Study should be given the power to provide reprisals and compensation in such cases. However, there was disagreement between the opposition parties and the government parties about when this was to be introduced, when we took a position on the proposal. Fortunately, the low-threshold offer is now in place, and it's good, because we in the Center Party believe it's well documented that sexual harassment is a widespread social problem, and we've gotten a lot of knowledge about the extent of it in recent years. We can certainly gain more knowledge, but what is important now, we believe, is to follow up with concrete measures and instruments. That is what we expect in the big news that the whole committee is supporting today. But making and adopting a message takes time. In the meantime, fortunately, we have the work of the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman against sexual harassment, which is really needed, and not least the job done throughout the country to prevent sexual harassment through training and awareness raising. That work is almost inexhaustible and should be strengthened financially as early as this year. It is a cheap investment in terms of how both individuals and the big community in the long run are served with the least possible harassment of this kind. We are promoting this today, together with the SV and the Workers' Party, while pointing out that it would have been wise in the revised budget to get a statement from the government on the status of the low-threshold offer against sexual harassment, now that it has been working for a while. Because even though it tells me that the prevention of the Ombudsman needs to be strengthened economically already now, it is important to know whether we should do even more, not least since this knowledge will definitely be necessary for the work on the big message we are adopting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e980	Metoo has been a social revolution. It was high time, for many have for a long time been warning about sexual harassment, but it was first with methotrexate that there was finally such a floodlight on the oppressive and freedom-limiting behavior that restricts women in many workplaces, that it actually came to the top of the agenda. This is about freedom. Sexual harassment in particular restricts women's freedom in workplaces and around society. That's why combating sexual harassment is one of the most important equality and liberation struggles we have in the future. Unfortunately, there have been very few policy measures, i.e. action at community level, after the Metoo movement, which really put this on the agenda. The opposition received a majority of low-threshold enforcement services against sexual harassment. It's very joyful, but if you ignore it, it's gotten very little. When a problem is a social problem, action at social level must be addressed. That recognition has obviously not reached the government. That's why we need this systematic and knowledge-based response to sexual harassment. That's exactly what a NOU, a Norwegian public investigation, does; it raises the fight and worked up to a whole new level. As we also write in the proposal, it is especially about ordering new research. The message from those who work on this is that they know a lot, but the systematic research and knowledge they don't have. If we do not have systematic knowledge and research, how are we going to combat the problem? I can't understand why the government won't take part in it. The government is usually so busy talking about a knowledge-based policy, but obviously it is not about gender equality policy. There's a very strange contradiction, which is completely false, between doing something now, making concrete actions here and now, and at the same time starting a systematic work. Is it really like this that the government doesn't do anything with e.g. cultural school policy, until the childhood and youth culture announcement is delivered in a few weeks? Maybe, I don't know, but at least that's how we don't run politics in the opposition. Getting knowledge, putting together a systematic effort, is the long-term project. Then, at the same time, we can propose, adopt and introduce the measures we already know there is a need now, as we proposed on 8 March to include sexual harassment clearly in the Work Environment Act, among other things. The 2012 Equality Committee pointed to this. That's the knowledge we already have. Unfortunately, the government parties will not have such systematic efforts. We get a big message and we are happy about it, so maybe a new government after the election will get the systematic effort started as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e997	I want to start by thanking all the women who speak out, and all those who work against sexual harassment daily. In response to methotrexate, we promoted proposals at Stortinget that resulted in some important decisions, but there is still a lot to be done. There are as many people who are exposed to sexual harassment at work as in the city. Nevertheless, the government has not done so much to stop sexual harassment in the workplace. Several people who are subjected to sexual harassment at work say that they suffer mental distress as a result of the events, or that it helps them to quit the job. This shows surveys carried out among employees in hotels, restaurants, health and care. We also see it in the cultural sector, where most of those who have been subjected to sexual harassment are temporarily employed. It makes it hard to say from, and most people don't report the event. It is therefore Red one year after we put forward proposals for action against sexual harassment, including proposals against sexual harassment in the workplace. But since the first round, when popular commitment pressed through some important measures, nothing has come into play in the fight against sexual harassment from the government. We therefore need to ensure at least that the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, who is working against sexual harassment, has sufficient resources. This proposal will be supported by Red. Red also wants to welcome the bigmouth message, but mainly we support the minority proposal on a public sample to acquire knowledge and research on sexual harassment in Norway and to make recommendations on action to this effect, not least with a pervasive perspective of power. That's this power perspective the government has to deal with, because if we're going to solve the problems, we have to actually also see that it's about power and power. Today, women still serve less than men. There are more temporary employees women than men, despite the fact that the wish for a permanent job is equally shared. Mid-term and part-time make people more dependent and less secure. There's economic inequality and power inequality in our society, and it affects our opportunities and to what extent we're free. It is therefore the minority's proposal that has an important perspective that the government does not yet seem to include, and I believe that the government should take this into account. Sexual harassment does not occur in a vacuum. There's a consequence of the biases that exist. That's why, three days after International Women's Day March 8th, it's quite right to state that this has been and still is a struggle for freedom for the women's movement. We as society have failed to learn and learn that my body is the only one that rules, and that responsibility rests on us all. That is why Red will be voting for all the proposals today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1012	What I can say with the previous speaker is that this is a responsibility that rests on just everyone. After listening to the debate here today, I have to say that I think it is a little sad that it is presented as if you do not agree here. Because it's actually an overall committee that's behind the recommendation. Here it is quite clear: ‘The government is asked to draw up a big message with a broad review of different fields of work and sectors of society, proposing measures to help prevent harassment in the Norwegian community. Work must cover all forms of harassment, threats and violence.’ I think it's a little sad that there's going to be such a polarized debate in the hall when there's such a big and broad consensus around this. I just wanted to underline it. Otherwise, I think the representative Tage Pettersen made a pretty good contribution. The progress party relies on many of the points he pulled out.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1024	When the American actor Alyssa Milano published its well-known metoo-tweet in 2017, she set fire to her world. In that message, she encouraged all women who had been sexually harassed or abused to answer "metoo". One year later, over 19 million people had responded to the article. Also in Norway the campaign took hold. Again, sexual harassment was clearly on the agenda. And also here were many surprises, and many were upset, with good reason. Because we have not been able to deal with the problem in Norway. A lot of work is left before all girls and all women are free from harassment and unwanted sexual attention. Sexual harassment is a major social problem. Estimates from the SSB show that as many as 114 000 people are exposed to unwanted sexual attention every year. Far more women than men are being harassed. Mostly exposed are young women. The last month, a number from the Defense Department showed that one in five women in the service had experienced sexual harassment in the last year. We can't have it that way. So let me make it clear: sexual harassment is outlawed. It lays down both equal opportunities and discrimination laws and occupational health and safety laws. A prohibition in itself is important, but rarely enough. Nor has government proved to be adequate for its many important measures against sexual harassment. I am therefore in agreement with the Storting that there is a need for stronger lye. We need to intensify work, work across sectors and engage the social partners. Starting a Norwegian public procurement is an extensive process and a time-consuming process. A NOU shall be heard and proposals for actions and recordings shall be translated into practical policy. It usually takes many years. I would therefore like to say that I support the recommendation of the Committee, which is to set up a wide-ranging report on sexual harassment, threats and violence, which gives us the opportunity to work professionally and politically with effective and effective measures. It will also give us the opportunity to lift the subject on the political agenda steadily. The government's ambition is to come back to the Storting with a message of sexual harassment, threats and power to the International Women's Day next year, which is March 8, 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1037	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1043	The Council of State referred to the results of investigations in the Defence Department showing that 22 pst. employees have experienced some form of harassment and 73 pst. by female students from the same survey have experienced harassment. In the police, the number is 15.9 pst. by all the employees. I am concerned that only one in five people report this. It is clear that there is little security for those who are alerting about harassment, and that this may be the reason they are not reporting when it happens. Will the Council of State in the Storing Communication also address how to notify of sexual harassment in a safe manner?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1050	Now I think one must be allowed to start working with the message before one says what is in it, but at least I can say that there is no doubt that what the representative here is raising, namely the threshold one has to say if unacceptable conditions and even illegal and criminal circumstances, can be experienced as too many. There's no doubt about it. It's also a shame that one sees that there have been a few historical cases of sexual harassment that have been raised before the courts, perhaps precisely because one feels that the threshold is high. For this reason, it is also important that a government now gives the Discrimination Study a new mandate to act as an offer which, hopefully, is more of a low-threshold offer. We also see that more things are coming in. That's good. Then we're going to start working on the big message, but it's clear that what's going to be drawn up here, that it has to be easy to say from, and that people have to feel safe when they say from, is always important to discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1059	In the opinion of the Centre Party, the Committee on Gender Equality and Discrimination is doing a very good job around the country in preventing sexual harassment, among other things. by training and raising awareness. We in the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and SV believe it is natural that this work is further strengthened economically as quickly as possible. Does the Council share our view of the good job done by the Ombudsman, and will he help to make the government even more aware of how important and good this means of action is, and that perhaps it should be strengthened financially both because it works, as it is at least right now, and because it is an important measure for all who are very concerned about getting rid of the phenomenon of sexual harassment?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1066	I absolutely share the view that both the gender equality and discrimination issues and the discrimination topic are making an incredibly important job. It's important to many. So maybe I'll push myself forward and say that one of the reasons people experience it this way is that they have a good financial framework and the ability to do the important job they do. The representative is probably not surprised that the government is using their bets in the annual budgets, which I think is a good general rule, not least because one of them also shows how things are connected. We have just been through the annual budgets to ensure that both the demand and the demand have a good financial framework today. They have also received more funds in the last few years, for example. in order to avoid the possibility of doing a good job with the mandate they have now received, which I was in the previous line exchange.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1073	In his reply to the Committee on this proposal, the Council of State Raja writes that he will not support the proposal to close a Norwegian public investigation. He would rather set up a group to find immediate action. I'm a little surprised at that. In addition, you can rush over it now as a big message is to be made. What I want to ask the Council of State is whether the government sees a contrast between launching a systematic, knowledge-based work on the one hand and taking immediate action against what we are already aware of today? Is it e.g. like, now that the government is about to present a big message about the cultural school, among other things, that there is no cultural school policy until it comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1080	The answer to that is no. The government works both long-term through knowledge acquisition, by describing the broad initiatives a take, through messages and propositions to the Storting, while, of course, taking all the small and large decisions to measure the goals we have already seen. So there's no contradiction there, but I'd say that when we're about to launch a broad initiative, which I understand is the consensus that it's important to take, it's normal -- or at least often -- to put down a selection that works for years, and then it ends up with a big message. Now the committee has expressed its wish to go straight to a big message, and I agree that it's wise. We have a lot of knowledge that we can now use to create a good document for the Storting and spend a year on it, which will provide the basis for using new means, homes and initiatives in the future. But, of course, gender equality policy and the fight against sexual discrimination are not paused pending that message.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1085	Thank you for that. It was a useful clarification, because more people on this pulpit claim it's a contradiction. But it's certainly not. So it's like the research, the people who work on this, and also the previous gender equality study, from 2012, points to the lack of systematic research and to the great need for knowledge, and that's exactly what we want here, but the government parties choose to vote down. I think the representative Seher Aydar had a good idea about the perspective of power, and it was not by chance that we mentioned that in our proposal for a Norwegian public investigation. It's not part of what the entire committee was able to join in on the big message, so I'm going to challenge the Council of State whether he can at least say whether the government agrees that inequality in power is an important issue when discussing sexual harassment, and whether it will be included as a perspective in the big message that will come in a year's time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1094	I would say that different power relationships are a very central theme both in the Metoo campaign and in the fight against sexual harassment. It's probably more than what that campaign has focused on – different power relationships. I believe that there has been a lot of unacceptable behavior and some illegal behaviour. It's important. Hopefully, it has also helped to raise awareness of those in a position of power that perhaps has not always been so very conscious of how important it is to others and in their behavior. So I totally agree that it's central, and it's clear that it would be natural to discuss these things in a big message. Otherwise, I do not fully understand that immediate action and long-term work, all the time that is proposed by the minority, is an even longer-term work than the message work the majority now wants to go in for, and that I believe will be a good work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1101	I think this is a little weird. It is probably four years since the Metoo campaign rolled over us, and over the four years, the right-wing government has not promoted its own initiative in anti-sexual harassment policy. The low-threshold offer that LDO subsequently received was promoted as a proposal from the opposition, which was subsequently accepted by the position. But now you're so eager to get through new policies against sexual harassment that you don't have time to wait for a NOU. I think that's weird. But maybe that's good. Therefore, I wonder: What concrete policy action is it that is urgent for the government to put in place concrete measures against sexual harassment, which now does not have time to wait for a NOU?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1106	The advantage of going straight to a big message is that then one can come back to the Storting faster, so that the Storting gets the opportunity to discuss a number of important issues in order to tackle sexual harassment. It's not that there's something wrong with putting down public selections, one can in principle imagine putting down public selections about most, continuously, because we're constantly developing the knowledge base on most of the subjects, including this. However, it is now my government's opinion that we are well equipped to start working on a big message. I assume that the Stortinget is looking to get her to treatment and to the possibility in that context to discuss important issues related to sexual harassment. At the same time, I must stress what I have also said in previous replications, that this does not mean that the policy is being looked at for a year. Of course, we're going to further develop the policy all the way, but I understand that here's a wish for one to come back to the Storting on a broad front. Of course you could have done that with a NOO. It would take even longer. We hope to get it done with a big message now, and then a good discussion will take place within a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1113	The last time we got an equality message from this government, it was, like so many messages from this right-wing government, a message full of big empty words without a single concrete action. There's nothing more pointless than these groceries promoted in fine words, from a government that doesn't want to do anything. The size has many opportunities to discuss sexual harassment, that's not what we're asking, we're doing all the time. What we want is a professionally up-to-date basis for looking at what measures we are going to take in the different sectors of society where sexual harassment is a major problem. Therefore, I find it strange that the government cannot take the time to do this. And since it is such that one should quickly return to the Storting with a message: What kind of action does the government think is important to get implemented so quickly that you cannot take the time to a professionally updated NOW?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1127	If it is that the wish from the opposition is to have a good professional basis with many good suggestions that Stortinget can discuss, we will bet that that is exactly what this message is going to be. Now we're going to start working with her, and I can't tell you what she contains until she gets to Stortinget, or before she's ready. But I can say that the government has high ambitions, a strong commitment to the fight against sexual harassment. This is a serious social problem. It requires action, it requires thoughtful plans, and I believe that a big message will provide a good basis for discussing that matter in Stortinget. Of course, it's the opposition's privilege to think that the messages they get are not according to the opposition's taste. Well, that's why the opposition wants to be in position, so we're going to have to assume, and then they're going to do the best they can to prevent it from happening in the fall, for example. because this government is pursuing such a good gender equality policy and an active policy against sexual harassment. That's at least what the goal is for us to reinforce with this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1134	Then the line chord change is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1153	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1160	The lack of equal pay is one of the major equality problems that we are taking with us on the road to full equality in Norway. Equal pay for equal work is statutory, but it does not always happen. Nevertheless, what creates the big pay gap, the pay gap between the typical women's and the typical people's professions. Historically, different valuations still appear on the pay side, and it is noted in the pension and employment relationship. The fact that a majority in health and care in this country work part-time, that women are in the majority of those who work temporarily – it is these things that make up the big gap. In order to reduce the pay gap and move forward, efforts are therefore needed in many areas. We must start by putting in place a cleaner working life with full, permanent jobs. It must be priority No. 1, higher pay and the valuation of the typical women's girls as well. Recruitment to gender-based professions is important in order to increase attractiveness and ensure people's safety and good working conditions. In addition, much more needs to be done, and that is what the proposal for a representative we are debating today is about. The Icelandic model that the proposal addresses today is a good model of attention to pay differentials and as a means of reducing them. Once again, with this proposal for a representative, as with all the other proposals for representatives and issues of equality we have had these years, we see that it is the opposition to the position. Today again, the opposition will take the big force roofs for equality. The right-hand side is opposite. That's too bad. This year's 8th of March week has focused on the consequences of different wages, and it no longer holds party speeches on March 8th or good wishes to raise equality here in the country. You have to act. With this I address the proposals that the Workers' Party is part of in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1175	The representative Anette Trettebergstien has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1180	Lack of equal pay is the main challenge for equality in Norway. I agree with the rapporteurs' wish to achieve equal pay. Because even if we have statutory rights to equal pay for equal work, it is still unknown that this is not the case in many occupational groups. Evenly, women get the worst out when you compare wages and salaries for equal work. This is something the social partners have to take greater responsibility for, the companies have to take greater responsibility, and in Norway we have laws that regulate the right to equal pay for equal work. In addition to this, the pay gap in Norway is about the very gender divide of the labour market, with women and men working largely in different segments. Women work more in low-paid jobs in the public sector, while men work in highly-paid jobs in the private sector. This is what creates the really big pay gap in Norway. Both parts are structural challenges due to lack of equality, which is important for us to do something about. All the parties, including the Right, believe that the work to achieve real equal pay at the different levels of society is too slow. Like what is in proposal No. 3, we believe that an explanation of persistent wage differences is the sex-shared labour market. Therefore, the government delivers a strategy in the spring of 2021. The strategy is formulated in the Granavolden platform: ‘Sex-divided educational choices contribute to the maintenance of a gender-divided labour market. The Government will therefore promote a strategy to contribute to a more equal education and labour market.» Other projects this government has been working on, which is important for this issue, are that we have more apprenticeships for skilled workers, and that women choose occupations that have traditionally been a career path for men, and vice versa. The introduction of gender-neutral titles for key positions in our society, such as state administrator and municipal director, is an important signal that we want an equal labour market. A salary to live on is just as important for women as it is for men. The work that is now being done in several municipalities in order to get an involuntary part-time job is important for more women to work throughout their jobs. In the case of measures for increased full-time, this includes, inter alia: made several changes to the Working Environment Act. Among other things, a right of priority has been introduced for part-time employees. Part-time employees shall have the right to increase their position rather than re-employment in the establishment. This provision was reinforced by a legislative amendment in 2019. Part-time employees may also, in the circumstances, be entitled to pre-emption in part of a published position. The Working Environment Act also gives part-time workers who have regularly worked in addition to agreed working hours in the last 12 months the right to a job corresponding to their actual working hours during that period. That provision entered into force on 1 January 2014 and was introduced as an anti-involuntary part-time measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1198	Thanks to the representative from SV for promoting the proposal on equal pay. The centre party shares its intention. In fact, the Equality Act has gradually been strengthened and states that gender pay differentials in working life are prohibited. It's probably evened out a little bit over the years, but numbers show that the pay gap still persists. Some things seem almost impossible to rock by, or are written in stone, said Anne Enger when she presented more than ten years ago the Equal Pay Commission's judgment on the pay gap between men and women. The average monthly wage for women in 2020 was about 45000 kroner, while men had an average monthly salary of 51 600 kroner. So the woman's salary is only approx. 87 pst. of the man's salary. There has been a slight decline in recent years, but this pay gap clearly shows that we still have a job to do. And there are still structures in society that maintain the pay gap between women and men. Value discrimination may be one of the greatest problems of our gender equality. Wages and salaries vary according to the sex-shared labour market. Occupations with the same level of education are paid differently, women’s dominated professions are paid less, and women dominate part-time jobs and are involuntarily part-time workers. This only underlines the need for an obliging wage escalation plan in the public sector, which we have today proposed together with SV. Otherwise, the government is working on a greater strategy in this area, and I am now warning that the Central Party has clear and high expectations. There's a lot of concrete work to do here. I think it is also brave of Iceland to introduce a legal certification process where companies and institutions with over 25 employees will prove that women and men are paid equally for equal work. In Norway too, equal pay for equal work is illegal, but unlike in Iceland, individual employees have to prove that differences in pay are due to discrimination. With the new law, Iceland has transferred the burden of proof to the employer. The model is interesting, and I've been positive all along. But the experience is still very limited, and so are the results, as it hasn't been long since it was implemented, which I also understood from a round table discussion that I, as Woman Political Leaders Ambassador yesterday, attended, with female politicians from different countries, including Iceland. Therefore, the Center Party believes that it makes sense to wait until we have a slightly better knowledge and experience base to consider whether to copy a similar model. It also supports the proposal to ask the social partners to cooperate in providing solutions for equal pay, including a possible multi-annual public sector benchmark, full-time measures and measures to combat the gender-based labour market. The result of such a work I expected had been listened to in the strategic work the government is now doing in this field, and I expect that they would have done if they had voted in favour of our proposal. With that, I'll take up the suggestions we're on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1215	Then the representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen addressed the proposals she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1220	Economic equality is essential in order to achieve real equality. Economic autonomy and the existence of a living wage are essential prerequisites. It's about both freedom and independence, and it's also about power. We can imagine the thousands of kitchen tables around the country where you sit with bills and make economic decisions in the family. In very many of the kitchen-table discussions, the woman is weaker because of the lack of economic equality we still unfortunately have today. We see that women on average make 90 kroner for every hundred bills a man earns. In addition, if you include women working more part-time than men do, we're going to spend about $65 for every hundred bill a man earns. Maybe the worse part is trying to figure out when we get full equal pay at today's rate. And then you might say, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. It is a pace that shows that today's policy and government have not provided the necessary solutions to put this at the appropriate speed. We're impatient. There are several reasons for this pay gap that still exist. Value discrimination may be the most important thing. You can see that typical women's work does not have the same pay as that of men. You also see a small x-factor, which is one of the reasons why this proposal, inspired by Iceland, is so important. There is a pay gap which cannot be explained by differences in educational levels, differences arising from the sex-shared labour market. For example, this is a case in point. that men are sometimes given job descriptions with more words about leadership, responsibility and the kind of things that women’s job descriptions are given. This points, for example, to: The Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman as one of the problems, one of the remaining tasks. Then the Icelandic model will be very interesting. SV promotes a number of proposals in this case. We look to Iceland and ask the government to adapt that model by strengthening the Norwegian equality law. We ask the government to take initiatives with the other parties to look at a possible equal pay pot. It is a pity that these proposals are once again being downgraded, even if it goes as slowly as it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1231	1913 was the first year of women's voting in Norway, and I can thank a large number of champions for women's rights for being here today. But there are still too few women in the boardrooms and in top management positions. Several women at the top are good for the bottom line of businesses, and not least as good role models for women who come after. Men and women should get equal pay for equal work. It is clear from today's legislation that equal pay is to be determined for equal work and that it cannot be discriminated against on the basis of sex or other grounds of remuneration. Policies and social partners have a responsibility to ensure that the legislation is followed. An important step towards reducing gender pay differentials is to make employers more aware of their responsibilities. In countering wage differences in the same industry, a strengthening of the obligation of activity and presentation has been a good tool. Obliging enterprises to identify gender pay differentials helps to make the differences visible where they exist and to facilitate the implementation of targeted measures. Equal pay between women and men should be a matter of course, and the government naturally prioritises this work high, among other things. through targeted measures to influence professional and educational choices. The government supports, among other things: the ‘Women and Technology’ programme to increase the proportion of girls in technology at all levels of the education system. In other words, the number of women applying for technical, vocational and technical and real subjects in higher education has a weak positive development. The Government has also decided to develop a strategy for a more equal education and labour market. The strategy has two main objectives: one is to get more men into women-dominated industries, and the other is to get more women into human-dominated industries. The strategy is planned to be launched in the spring of 2021. Women may not negotiate as hard on wages, and perhaps women are not as concerned with wages as men, and that is an honest matter in itself, but they should definitely have equal pay for equal work. Nor should they be overlooked because they are at home with children during periods. On the contrary, being at home with children should be valued as a valuable competence and then rewarded. Being a parent should be seen as a good quality to take on leadership tasks. I believe and hope that the attractive jobs in the future have greater room for workers to be whole people with all that it implies, and that Christian People's Party will work for. We want a work life where the job is adapted to the family, and not the other way around. It may also contribute to a less gender-based labour market and to combating the gender pay challenges we face today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1248	The management of the pandemic has been at the top of the agenda in all countries. The government is particularly busy with the consequences it gets for equal opportunities in the workplace. In fact, after several years of decline, the latest SSB figures show that there has been a small increase in the wage gap between women and men in 2020 compared to 2019. But here we probably have to rise because the labour market has been in an exceptional state for the last year. It has been its payroll and many layoffs, and all this has affected the wage growth in the labour market in 2020. We're going to hope that this is the exception that confirms the rule. Nevertheless, we know that we still have a sex-shared labour market. This can be done, for example: the importance of pay differentials between women and men, and it may also appear to have an impact in times of crisis. This is an example of how the crisis makes it even more necessary to follow developments in the future, and it should be done by the government. Therefore, the government's efforts are for equality, important. We will put forward a strategy for a less gendered education and working life this spring. The government has argued that the objective of the strategy, which is more equal in the labour market, will in the long term also contribute to the smoothing of wage differences. Employers and public authorities shall work systematically for an equal society. This year, the first year is for employers in both public and private enterprises to carry out a gender-based wage survey in the enterprise. This is an important prevention work against gender discrimination in pay. They shall also monitor involuntary part-time work. They're supposed to do some good for monitoring in the annual message or any other publicly available document. This will raise awareness of any gender differences between women and men and contribute positively to a stronger response to unsustainable wage differences in general. When it comes to the new proposal to strengthen tripartite cooperation, I point out that the government already has a well-functioning tripartite cooperation on equal opportunities in employment, anchored in the Employment and Pension Policy Council. By means of changes of praise and efforts, governments contribute to an equal society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1263	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1269	So the government does not support the proposal we have with SV, an initiative we have with the other social partners, to find good solutions for equal pay. Can the Council of State guarantee that the other social partners will have a strong role to play in the strategy that the Council of State has just spoken about from the pulpit and that the government is in the process of doing so?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1274	It is true that the government party does not have the notice that they will vote for the proposals to which the Central Party refers. It is well for the same reason that the Labour Party does not seem to support these proposals. I assume that the social partners are responsible for the wage negotiations. That the Stortinge should intervene in the way I perceive that the Center Party and SV here propose, at least this government does not mean that it is in good line with the tripartite cooperation, which is being discussed nicely. But then one has to follow it up in practice. When it comes to the strategy of government working for a less gender-based education and working life, we are in close contact with – I kept saying – most and most of them to ensure that we get good input from those who have shoes. Clearly, it is also natural to have good discussions with the social partners about important gender equality work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1281	Maybe that's one of the reasons why the government won't be there. Why the Workers' Party is not involved, I can't answer for it. But it's now the social partners who know best why things are what they are, and I have trouble seeing that taking the initiative to get together and think beyond the usual wage negotiations would be negative. I hope that the Council of State will take the advice that it might be wise to let them look at these issues beyond what they normally do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1286	It is quite natural for one to sit together with the parties and discuss important common challenges. It's a very central part of tripartite cooperation. But it's clear that the proposals that the Socialist Left Party, along with the Central Party, is in favour of, that is, that one should both put money at a level playing field in the public sector, and that the government should come to the United Kingdom with a pay escalation plan in the public sector, are difficult to see is in line with the principle that it is the parties that negotiate pay, and that there is something the Bigholding should be careful about going into very detailed. I assume that's why the opposition is just as divided in the side of the proposal that's here. At least I can't recommend that the Storting vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1291	Now the Council of State said a lot about the crisis and the corona, and that there was a lot to come back to there. We heard that there were extra funds for the municipalities in connection with the corona. Then I think that here you have an opportunity to maybe try out Iceland's model. As I understand it, it's that work of equal value is to be paid equally. For example, additional costs have been incurred by municipalities. to nurses who have to work extra hours. Now you could give a pot in connection with the corona for an equal pay supplement, so that the nurses could get the same pay as for example. the engineers in the municipality. What does the Council of State think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1298	I think that if the representative here thinks that we are going to go into the wage setting for different groups at municipal level, it's a bit like what I was in the past, that then a quite far goes into what is the responsibility of the parties when it comes to wage negotiations, even in a time of crisis. When it applies to the Icelandic model, I have tried to understand a little bit what he is talking about, and I have to admit that there are some questions that are not answered. I have also found out that the model has just been put into effect, and that one does not yet know anything about the experience from him. This does not mean, of course, that the model is uninteresting, but jumping on and saying that one should introduce it in Norway on that basis is enough to go a little far if one is to pursue a knowledge-based policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1305	It wasn't that you had to intervene in the room, it was an opportunity to make some attempts to equate engineering wages with, for example. Nursing pay in the municipalities, and then it will be up to the municipalities to negotiate what it is. There is now a possibility of extra money being given to the municipality in connection with the Korona. Most municipalities have had extra expenses for health professionals and nurses, and we have stood and applauded them. Isn't it time to give them a little more than just a clap?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1312	I think it's great that a pamphlet for people who do a very important job and have a very important role in society, and then I think it's great that they get paid well. But beyond that, I'm not going to go deep into the wage fixing here, both because I didn't think it's natural that I do that, and because the questions that are raised here around the crisis package to the municipalities, neither is my constitutional responsibility. But there is reason to rejoice that when you look at some of the factors that are very important for why we have different wages between women and men in Norway, for example. The fact that women work much more part-time than men is a positive point. The fact that fewer women now work part-time, and that 90 000 more women work all the time under this government, I think we're on the right track. These are the basic structures that need to be taken into account: professional choices, part-time issues, gender-based education, etc. Everything that the government is working on, and that is precisely the goal of the strategy that is on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1319	We're on the right track, says the Council of State. But it is also relevant how fast the car is driving on that road. If it runs at snail speed, it really helps very little that we are on the right road, that is, if we don't get there in 50-100 years and get off of us who are in the hall today, still are in the car, to say it like that. So my question is, when we see that the pace is so low, that it takes so long with the policy and the means we have today, will the Council of State recognize, first of all, that it is going too slowly, and secondly that it has to do more?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1324	If the government didn't think it had to be done anymore, the government wouldn't have taken the time to create an important strategy to reduce the gender-divided educational and labour market that we have in the world. If the government thought that everything was so good, we wouldn't have spent time and resources on that kind of work. But we do it, just because we see that we don't have far enough. At the same time, I thought it was worth enjoying the many developments that we now see that can take us to a more equal working life. The fact that we, for example, Now has a record difference in employment between women and men, there is reason to rejoice over. The fact that fewer women work part-time is reason to rejoice. The fact that fathers have never taken out as many days of parental leave as they are now, there is reason to rejoice over. And it's not for itself, it's because of the government's policy. That doesn't mean we're in goal, we're going to do more, but I think there's reason to rejoice that one of the world's most equal countries is actually becoming more and more equal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1331	I am not thrilled with the optimism that there is going to be a strategy against the sex-shared labour market this spring, for strategies like it has this government delivered earlier, and we are still in a situation where we do not achieve full equal pay until 50-100 years. I want to ask the Council of State a question about this with pay policy. It's a well-known debate, we're all aware of that, but it seems that the government parties here have read the SV's proposal a little on automatic, that they haven't read it very carefully. The SV therefore proposes that the State, as one party, should bring this to the table for the other parties, and if the other parties agree on an equal pay pot, for example, and several measures are also mentioned – then the State should provide the funds. I wonder if the Council of State can respond to how it intervenes in the determination of wages in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1339	First of all, it's not just the government that seems to mean it, it also looks like the largest opposition party, the Labour Party, seems to mean it. Secondly, when a government asks to come ‘to the Storing on the first occasion with an obliging escalation plan’ for wage development, I would say that it is going quite far to break into what is negotiation between the parties. It is not that the state does not have an important role in wage developments, not least in the public sector. But this is, as the representative himself says, a well-known debate, in which the government party and the Labour Party have a different attitude from that of the SV and the Central Party, and that is a good reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1344	Then the line chord change is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1351	Today we are discussing an incredibly important matter. It's about more than equal pay for equal work, it's about women's opportunities in working life. Education and work give women freedom, and that's the greatest equality measure we can do. But we have a piece left. The council said we're on the right track, and it's moving forward. Among other things, we have more women working full-time than part-time. It's an important milestone. But there is something clouding in the sky when it comes to equality. The statistics show that the higher education you have, the less you are exposed to pay differentials in the world of work. That's something we have to do with. We also have one of the most gender-shared working lives in the OECD. Women often enter care professions; men traditionally choose technology. As a former principal at a college, I can say that we've worked very hard on it. Among other things, we've been working on getting more girls into the engineering and technology disciplines. This shows that when you have a systematic bet on it, it works. Women earn an average of 88 pst. of men's monthly wages and salaries. We have to do something about that gap. It's also true that there's only one in three women starting businesses. Could it be that women are less risky than men? In that case, we must start early in education. Now we have a course of education called both mastering and knowledge, and it's just about drying to take a risk and start for yourself. There's more people who do it, but we also have a piece to go. Female leaders were also mentioned, and female partners in law firms and women around a board. They're fewer. We're not there yet. The aim of a strategy for an equal education and labour market is anchored in the Granavolden platform. I'm very happy about that. This strategy will be launched in the spring of 2021. We are waiting for measures to get more men into women-dominated industries and more women into man-dominated industries. Then we can also start to fix the pay gap. So I'm very busy saying that right-wing believes it's the social partners who have to take this discussion and work with pay differentials between women and men, and I think we're going to be very careful to get involved here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1366	It's a shame that the line change with the council ended there, so I keep going here. The council referred to the SV's proposal in a mildly inaccurate way – yes, perhaps unfairly, if I have to turn a little more. For what is contained in the SV's proposal, but which the Council of State has failed to do, any escalation plan should be ‘on the basis of the cooperation of the parties’. Therefore, I should just say quite clearly that the SV's proposal is about bringing action for equal pay to table, including equal pay pots, to the other parties, and at the moment that the parties would agree that there is a proper way to do so, then the state should set up. That's what SV is proposing. So when more and more representatives from the government parties use the wage fixing and the freedom of the parties there as an argument against the proposal, it is a skin debate. That is why I want to ask what the actual arguments of the government are, because those arguments do not make the SV's proposal. It's very important for me to say that, because we have a lot of respect for how pay fixing is done in Norway. While I first have the floor, I will also mention something I did not get in my first post. On the same day that SV promoted this proposal for a cap on equal pay, we also had a proposal for increased full-time entitlement, because the full-time/part-time issue is perhaps one of the most important obstacles to achieving equal pay. It was a separate proposal that was discussed in the Labour and Social Committee, and it has already been processed, but for me it is very important to stress that context. We have to work for increased equality both at home, through the right to full time and by removing the last wage discrimination that occurs in each activity, in each industry, and we have to do something about value discrimination. I think that we all agree that without going into a discussion about equal pay, it is difficult to find any other measures that can adequately address the issue of value discrimination. I guess the Left has also said something about that in their party programs before.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1375	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1392	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1399	Let me first thank the Committee for an effective and good cooperation on the setting. I am pleased that there is such a broad majority who oppose this proposal by the Progress Party. We were on Monday that we are running and solving some problems that people do not have, and this is probably an example that the Progress Party is at the forefront of that exercise. There is simply no demand from the Norwegian population to change the game model that is able in a very good way to offer games for pleasure and entertainment, prevent gambling addiction and great suffering for individuals and families, and at the same time – as a bonus – even create good returns to the volunteer we otherwise mention in the celebrations in this Chamber, also from the Progress Party. I want to thank the Department for very good and thorough answers, how many of the arguments for lifting the gambling monopoly are actually being put quite dead and powerless. Experience from other countries is said to provide greater income and control of gambling addiction, but the reality, as the department quite well describes, is different. I have to say that as Minister of Culture in my time and in charge of solving the huge waste that was on the machines in Norway, I have seen in close proximity what incredible tragedies lie in the wake of a gambling addiction. That the Progress Party does not have the ability to show greater social responsibility, co-humanity and closeness to people who actually have this as a disease, I think it's amazing. The only ones that can serve on the proposals of the Progress Party are the private actors who, through this, can put a suction pipe into people's disease and problems. I don't think that's the task of Stortinget. We're going to take care of people, we're going to facilitate people, and we're going to have a game system that also takes care of this. And once again, if you got a license scheme, there would always be someone on the outside of it too -- what would you do with it? There will always be a challenge to limit those games that are not authorised in Norway. So it's a happy day because it's actually such a broad majority. I am very pleased that also the Right and Left, who have been a little winged in this matter up through the times, now stands firmly on the fact that we keep this system in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1414	The aim of gambling policy in Norway is to prevent problematic gambling behaviour, prevent financial defaults and limit private profits on gambling. That's a goal I think we all agree on. Int. 250 S for 2016-2017, the majority, at the time consisting of the Right Party and the Advance Party, wrote: ‘A scheme can be effective today, without therefore having to be effective in a few years’ time. The majority consider that the most important thing is to monitor these developments and to assess whether the current model is appropriate on an ongoing basis, so that the necessary knowledge and, as far as possible, may lie ahead of developments in this important policy area.» [[...]] The Ministry now writes in its reply to the Committee that they are committed to the same conclusion as in the Notice. Article 12 for 2016-2017, and that the conditions under which they applied at that time are still in force. In TV 2’s ‘Norway behind the façade’, critical searchlights were recently focused on Norwegian Tipping’s development and marketing of addictive games and the company’s marketing. We know that problem playing has increased. The survey of the population survey on the problems of money and computer games carried out by the Lottery Authority shows that 55 000 Norwegians have problems with gambling. 122 000 are at risk of developing gambling problems, and the figures correspond to an increase of 34 000 problem players from the previous survey in 2015. And this increase, at the same time, is the exclusive model that underpins the game policy. Norwegian Typing is becoming more and more similar in many ways to many of the actors that many people want to distance themselves from. The Court’s draft new party programme relates to its exclusive right model and the choice of the Norwegian gaming policy licensing model, but during this magnificence we naturally relate to the current programme and the current government statement. And the Committee emphasises that the major voluntary organisations, sports organisations and organisations involved in drug addiction, in their hearings, are now warning against the abolition of the exclusive right model. Unwanted gambling behaviour and control are interrelated and complex. Much of the North’s spillage takes place outside the control of the Norwegian authorities today. It hampers problem-playing and is a major challenge for which we must all take responsibility, including with the exclusive right model as a preferred solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1430	Today's monopoly doesn't work. The majority of the parties in this room choose to stick their heads in the sand and ignore the fact that hundreds of thousands of Norwegians spend billions of dollars each year on foreign gaming sites, Norwegian authorities and the community does not enjoy at all. Today's model does not work in several of the areas used for the model. The only consideration that makes us have an exclusive right model is that there should be as much money as possible for good social purposes, which we agree on. But there isn't going to be as much money as possible for good social purposes when over 50 pst. by those who play online, play on companies that are not allowed to be part of the good company, so that we can tax their business. It's not going to be as much money as possible for good social purposes when billions of dollars disappear into foreign gaming companies because the majority here chooses to stick their heads in the sand and ignore the money from the hundreds of thousands of Norwegians who play on those sides, instead of introducing a licensing model, as our neighbors have done, which means that you also get tax revenue on that money. A report from Menon some years ago showed that you could get up to 1.9 billion. kr in increased tax income with a licence model. It would have been a smart way to do it. When Sweden introduced a licensing model, the tax revenues actually were more than doubled from what had been used before the introduction. Another consideration for today’s exclusive right model is to reduce problem gambling. We agree that we must combat gambling addiction. The problem is that with the exclusive right model we have today, with monopoly regimes, the number of problem players has been more than doubled in seven to eight years, according to research from UiB. The fact that we do not have a licence model also prevents us from introducing some of the good measures that our neighbouring countries have taken, which make it possible, for example, to do so. can block itself from all gaming companies in one location. By excluding several of the pages on which hundreds of thousands of Norwegians play, we are also unable to have an effective attitude campaign against problem gambling. In other words, today's model means that we get an inefficient fight against gambling addiction. I will not sink to the same level as some other representatives have done earlier today and say that it is about people's humanity and lack of concern that other parties do not support the Progress Party in this view. I just want to point out the facts and respect that we have different political views and solutions to this. One of the last things: not to have aggressive advertising against people who are struggling with gambling is also an argument used for today's gambling monopoly. I have to say I also think Norwegian Typing from time to time has very aggressive and ongoing advertising. If the advertising comes from a monopolist or other actors, it cannot be the point, but we also have an effective fight against gambling addiction. I am addressing the proposals made by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1447	The representative of Himanshu Gulati has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1452	The centre party is faced with the fact that the exclusive right model is indisputably the best solution we have to ensure a responsible and active gambling policy that ensures the prevention of problematic gambling behaviour, the prevention of financial defaults and the limitation of private profits. As stated both in the previous press release in the field and in the Ministry's review of the case, the model of exclusive rights is a better model to achieve the objectives of the gambling policy than a licence model. It also believes that the hearing bodies, although the challenges of gambling dependence have increased. The gaming companies want a licensing model, as it will give them much better leeway and market access. Their main objective is not accountability, although I believe that they like to have it high on the agenda. Their main objective is and will be the greatest possible profit from their activity, and it is from my point of view impossible to see that the goal is compatible with the game policy that we in the Centre Party want to pursue. I would also like to refer to our support for the good arguments put forward by the rapporteur both in the Chamber here now and in the adjustment document, which clearly determines why the exclusive model is and becomes the preferred model for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1461	Gambling addiction is terrible to be struck by, and when you talk to those who have been through the hell it is, it makes a real impression. This committee has also consulted the organisations of gambling addicts, where we have been told what it is like and what kind of suffering it leads to for the gambling addict himself and for the family of the person concerned. Therefore, social responsibility is such an extremely important consideration to take into account gambling policy. Then it's quite obvious that the exclusive model, even though it's not perfect, is far, far better than the alternative. I think the department in this case gives a very clear reason why. I want to mention two things. The first department determines this is for business reasons, which are included in the gaming market when a licence model is opened up. The ministry writes that the companies will then assess the business, profit, social responsibility, and that balance sheet is the best way to avoid anyone having to go at all. The second argument I want to make is that no matter what model you choose, there will be actors outside the model that will not be part of the regulation. The problems you have with the exclusive right model today might as well be experienced with another model, with the licence model – that you still have casino players, cowboys on the outside who seem to have earned not to follow the legislation. When the Progress Party accuses the obvious majority of people in the hall of sticking their heads in the sand, we can give that accusation back again, because the Progress Party really sticks its head in the sand in terms of the quite clear dismantling – I would say the breaking of the line – of the arguments of the Progress Party that come from the Department of this matter. The Progress Party should respond to those arguments. Then the head comes up from the sand again. It is important to stress that today's model is not perfect either. It's important. It's a cool balance, among other things. for Norwegian Typing in their marketing that there is reason to follow closely and tell them clearly if they go over the line. So, not least, it's extremely important the work we've been doing on foreign, illegal game advertising. There the majority in this room gave a clear marshal to the government, which the government has followed up quite well so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1476	We see a frightening development in the fact that more and more people are becoming addicted to gambling, and last week the documentary “Norway behind the façade” on TV 2 focused on a serious health challenge that unfortunately only gets more and more common. We must face this development with more political force, and we must, not least, fend for the model of exclusive rights. The Progress Party considers that today’s gambling monopoly should be repealed and replaced by a licensing system ‘which provides for a level playing field for Norwegian and international gambling companies’, as the proposal so states. But here we must be honest – or as the Progress Party would have said itself: call a spade for a spade. For the purpose of the activities of the gambling companies, which are as high as possible in terms of profit, the aim of responsible gambling is complete, and what the Progress Party proposes here would undoubtedly increase the risk of a development that reinforces gambling problems, affecting individuals and entire families. Around 122,000 Nordics are addicted to gambling or in the risk zone of gambling addiction, and if you expect their relatives, you can assume that half a million people here to land are affected by the negative side of gambling. It's about family relationships that are being destroyed, about people who play from house to home, it's about people who resort to desperate actions because the debt has grown over their heads and they feel that they've failed all they're happy about. Unfortunately, we know too well the connection between gambling addiction and suicide issues. The Christian People's Party has previously taken the fight against the large, cynical international gaming companies, and fortunately at the turn of the year we got rid of all the advertising that has been illegally sent on Norwegian screens. That was one step in the right direction. But the Christian People's Party has nothing to do with gamblers who profit from the tragedy of others, and this proposal to change the marketing law so that licensed gaming companies can legally advertise their products will therefore be directly contrary to the Christian People's Party and the government's policy in this field. The timing of this proposal makes it extra tasteless. The pandemic has been difficult for many, and for several of the former gambling addicts, isolation and a lot of intrusion have offered a relapse. We need to support these people, so they can stay away from the games. We need to make more efforts, and we don't have to give the foreign companies even greater leeway, as the Progress Party wants. Unfortunately, I am not surprised in this matter, but I am equally very disappointed with the priorities of the Progress Party and that they let the concern of the gaming companies go ahead of the consideration of the vulnerable people and their families. The Christian People's Party wants accountability in game policy, and that means that the consideration of the vulnerable must be put first – always.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1491	In Norway, there is broad support in the Storting for a one-right model in the field of gambling, as the treatment of this case and also the debate shows. The argument has been that such a monopoly system is best suited to tackling gambling problems. At the same time, the model has also generated surpluses for societal purposes. The representatives of Gulati, Heimdal, Wiborg and Steffensen have proposed to repeal the one-rights model with the proposal today. They're of the opinion that a license model is better suited to tackle gaming problems, while at the same time generating a larger surplus for good purposes. Norwegian Typing is a state-owned company. They have a clear social mission, and it's offering responsible games. Foreign gaming companies, on the other hand, are commercial companies and will naturally want to maximize fortastes. In any case, from those perspectives, there is no automatic in that they want to introduce, for their own machine, anti-translation liability measures. It can, of course, be imposed through a licence model. At the same time, if the requirements for obtaining a licence go too far beyond the translation into commercial companies, there is a risk that one in any case will have companies operating outside the regulated system. Increased competition in the field of gambling could lead to higher profit and increased marketing costs, for Norwegian Typing at least, and in addition, they would, of course, lose market share. The question of whether the state will increase its revenue by a licence model has also not been raised. A report prepared by Oslo Economics in 2019 concludes that an introduction of the licensing model can, on the contrary, reduce the country’s revenues by more than $1 billion. The Ministry of Culture concluded in 2017 that a one-right model provides a higher level of protection than a licence model. The government therefore considers that it would not be beneficial to abolish the one-right model in favour of such a licence model. The government will protect on the one-rights model, primarily in terms of vulnerable players and work against serious gambling dependence.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1504	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1510	I thank you for a very good post. As Minister of Culture, I had very close and good cooperation in my time with a party colleague of the Council of State, Atle Hamar, of the Lottery Authority, who did a wonderful job to ensure that the policy of the Stortinget had been adopted for play was implemented. We did not have the same support from the then Young Left-leader Sveinung Rotevatn, who was concerned about lifting the gambling monopoly. It was to be free for gambling companies, more or less, and it was to be removed with the money going for charitable purposes. One should not paint bad purposes with good, as Rotevatn said at the time. Is the Council of State happy that the Young Left did not get ahead with its position that time?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1517	I have also had a good cooperation with Atle Hamar, among others. as State Secretary in the Ministry of Climate and Environment. We both have our Young Left Leaders and the Young Left Front in different contexts. We both have government experience and we have a government platform in front of us. It's not always 100 pst. consistency of lots in all cases. At the same time, I would add, as mentioned earlier in the debate, that it is not such that conclusions within the playing field are leveled in stone forever. It is important to keep up with the market all the way. That is why the government has seen a number of different measures in place, including: where there is advertising pressure from commercial operators. New technology, the Internet, mobile telephony, etc. I agree to influence this. I think we should follow closely and make sure that we always have a game model that takes care of the most important thing, and the most important thing is that we avoid gambling addiction and that people get big problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1526	It should be said that the then Young Left Leader said in the interview in the ringing body casinotrollet.com that climate policy was more important than abolishing the gambling monopoly, so that's the way it's been! To be a little more serious: the left has turned back and forth in the question of the game system. Under Trine Skei Grande in the Ministry of Culture and now Abid Raja it is luckily turned around about the model we have. Is it that we can now expect that the Left Party, which also has a certain position in Rotevatn, will stand on this model? It's true that there are changes, but changes are about the fact that the gaming companies are more aggressive, advertise harder and have more opportunities with the Internet, so we actually need more to call about our game model today than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1535	Firstly, I still think that climate policy is the most important thing. Therefore, I am pleased that greenhouse gas emissions go down with this government and are at their lowest level of 27 years. But there is another debate. As I said in my previous answer, first of all, it is the basis of this government to work for, as the Minister of Culture in this government does, that we should take care of the one-rights model, that we should make sure that there are no more responsible games for people, and that we all work against gambling addiction. We have also gained a lot of experience in recent years about how such regulation can be adjusted in different directions. We see in other countries what works and what doesn't work. I think the whole way is important not least to follow the technological developments. Now, unfortunately, we don't see all the arrows pointing in the right direction with regard to gambling addiction in Norway, and then it's important to have an open mind for how we can counteract it. The government's view is that the one-rights model is the best way to do it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1546	On the Left's website and in their game program you can read the following about the game monopoly: ‘The problem is that it does not work.’ It can also be read that the Left will ‘establish a pilot project with a foreign network game licensing system’. My question to the Council of State is: Does he agree that the monopoly of games does not work, and does he think it might be a good idea to have a pilot project with a licensing system, which takes in some of the gaming companies that hundreds of thousands of Norwegians play today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1556	Firstly, the Left Party program for the current period is not to wind up Norwegian Typing or Rikstototo, but it is true that we have entered the game program for a limited trial scheme. But in the government cooperation we're part of, there's a very clear government platform that says we're going to base ourselves on the model we have today. I live well with that. So I think, as I said, it's important that a lot of time follows that it's the goal of the monopoly system, easy to define games and gambling addiction, which must be the important thing. We always have to make sure that these are the most important results. I respect that one might think the representative does, that winding up Norwegian Typing and having a licence model would give better results. But there's a lot of knowledge that we've gradually gained that means that it won't necessarily be right in all cases. But it's a completely fair debate to take. I'm glad we get the opportunity to take him today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1563	As I mentioned earlier, there are, among other things, in Denmark, a system for blocking from all gambling companies through a common portal if you wish and you have problems with gambling. There are a number of measures against gambling addiction that we cannot have in Norway because we choose to exclude many of the games on which hundreds of thousands of Norwegians regularly play. My question to the Council of State is whether he believes he can get a more effective fight against gambling addiction in some areas, if we get a licence model that also takes gaming companies that several hundred thousand Northmen play on, into the heat.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1570	I think that if one had a license model and there were strict conditions attached to him for precisely delimiting games, advertising and other things, it would have a positive effect on those companies that chose to be part of that license model. What's the challenge, as I pointed out in my post and in response from the ministry, is that if the terms are 'too strict', there's a real risk that many companies will still continue to operate on the outside of such a licence model, as they do today. I wish that the Progress Party would reflect on something more – the problems we have today with those companies that do not comply with any rules and operate on the outside. These problems have not been resolved by introducing a licence model. So it's clear that for those who operate on the inside of such a model, a still strict requirement can be, and it's clear that it can be positive. But the question is, do we get rid of the aggressive play for that reason?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1575	It was almost a history class here. The representative Trond Giske has said x the number of times that he has previously been Minister of Culture. How often can you mention it, you can ask yourself. But he was perhaps first and foremost concerned with the history of the Left. For me, it is then a little important to clarify this with Norwegian Typing – a model that many people here today are supporting, precisely the exclusive right model and that Norwegian Typing is the right choice to land on. I wonder if the Council of State can then confirm that Norwegian Tipping also spent huge sums on marketing to Norwegian consumers, families, players, etc. under Minister of Culture Trond Giste.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1582	It's probably a little bit of a clue as to what one means by enormous sums, but I think I'm afraid to say that the answer is yes. Norwegian Tipping has been complaining to people for many years, just to get them to play. It gives me an opportunity to say that it's not that everything is very well just because games go through Norwegian Typing. One can still have play problems, and it is clear that there are also people who are struggling with dependency who benefit from the services of Norwegian Typing. For this reason, it is very important that we always take care to strike the good balance where Norwegian Typing is going to offer people, who hopefully prefer to prefer the much more aggressive games that operate outside of Norwegian legislation, but where they themselves obviously must not become too aggressive in marketing or leading people into gambling problems. I don't think we'll ever come up with goals there, but we have to make sure that we constantly take care of the concerns that, after all, are the concerns that are calling for the full legitimacy of monopoly laws initially.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1591	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1599	We in the Progress Party are happy to stand alone in the political debates. I think it's stash. And as we hear from the pulpit today, we can risk that some parties will be with us in the next period. However, there was another representative, whom I do not think should continue in the Chamber after the election, who was the case rapporteur. I do not know what tradition Trond Giske has when he is the case rapporteur in matters, but I am at least of the conviction, which I believe several of the committee's members share with me, that we have no tradition of referring to the proposals of our political opponents as simply inhumane – that is what the case rapporteur tried to say from this platform. A more political low from a colleague in the committee I have never actually been on. I therefore feel it is absolutely right to say it from this pulpit, because it was simply not possible to take a reply to a case rapporteur who made such statements. I can remind the representative Trond Giske that in the matter before, we actually showed humanity when an overall committee agreed to take a settlement with sexual harassment – just as an example of how to stand together. I would like to ask that the proposals of the Advance Party be made as inhumane. I think it is unworthy of the debate. We can disagree politically, we are all the time, and we shall continue to be, and we shall deal with political arguments, of course we shall be able to do so, but I have to say that I think it was a sad introduction from the case rapporteur. I also remember the representative Trond Giske, who several times today has been concerned that he has been Minister of Culture, that Norsk Typing also under him had his own wall in his premises with distinctions, trophies and prizes they had won for just game advertising.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1610	I heard the case rapporteur defend the exclusive right model, among other things. that there is no popular requirement to change Norwegian gambling policy. That might be right, but that's a strange point of view to take. One says indirectly that if the people change their mind, the Workers' Party will also consider changing their minds – we have our principles, but we can change them if you don't agree. It's going to be a strange approach to politics. We should rather discuss the principle. The question should not be whether a majority has a desire or a need to use services other than Norwegian Typing, the question should be why the majority should refuse the minority to do so. I can understand that the red-green parties deny it to people, but it should be a fundamental principle for the non-socialist parties to remove monopoly arrangements and let each consumer choose the product they themselves want to use. From a consumer point of view, removing the exclusive right model would be a big plus. One will get more competition, get more games to choose from, offer better odds on the games you want to bet on, one can choose away companies you're dissatisfied with, and one can choose companies that offer niche products you don't have today, for example. elections on American presidents, the outcome of brexit, who wins snooker tournaments, or other things Norsk Typing doesn't offer today. A main argument against the licensing model is about financing. I am convinced that the total turnover of gambling will increase. This will lead to an increase in the tax base and more allocation to volunteering and sport. I also think it would be positive if several foreign gaming companies could advertise, support football clubs, sports events and single players in a completely different way from what is being done today. It will be able to lift more minds to a new level from what is today. I understand that our proposal to liberalise the gambling monopoly will fall today. But we're not giving up, because we know we're right, and we know we're going to get it right. For that reason, I would quote from a book: ‘The truth is that what has been introduced by liberalisation in Norway in the last 30 years, such as gender-neutral marriage law, telemonopoly resolution and drug shower in stores, has met strong resistance. It has been considered unnecessary and risky. But when an ex-post state is settled, history shows that liberalisation, whether in the economy or in the private sector, has largely produced very positive results. And «all» is after a very short time some that it made sense.» I had intended to recommend the Minister of Culture to read this short, but inspiring book, but in his absence I see that it is the author himself who meets as the Council of State, so I do not have to recommend the book «Liberalism in Norwegian» to him. But I can thank for inspiration, and I hope that the Council of State on the next occasion has found its roots.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1626	The last three minutes didn't go far, so I had to draw up another post. As I said before, with today's gambling monopoly, you get less money for good societal purposes than you could get with a licensing system, and we see that the number of problem players has increased. In addition, today’s gambling monopoly has not led to the absence of ongoing advertising. The only thing that has led to this is that the advertising comes from a monopolist. Lottomillionaires are not like other millionaires, text messages indicate that there are 100 million in the pot tonight – and this is also seen in advertising when you go to vg.no or other websites. This is advertising that may not be problematic for most people, but for those who are struggling with problematic games, it is probably as problematic to get such advertising from Norwegian Typing as it might be from other actors. So using the absence of advertising as an argument for the exclusive model I think is completely wrong. The only thing the monopoly achieves is more power for those who have power within a monopoly, but you shut others out. The representative of the SV asked me to respond to the arguments put forward by the Council of State in a letter to the Committee. I believe that the experience from our neighbouring countries shows what happens if you introduce a licence model. More comprehensive efforts are being made to tackle problem gambling because more players can be involved, more players are being hit, and more revenue is being given to the state, which can be used for volunteering and other good societal purposes. I have full respect for the fact that, as parties, we have different ideological approaches and positions in terms of monopolies and in terms of gambling policy, but I don't understand just how the parties in this room can just ignore the fact that billions of dollars from Norwegian players are left on foreign sides every year without getting a single penny of the money input as tax revenue and into social purposes. Even though we have different ideological fundamentals, you just ignore this – you live well with billions of dollars still disappearing from Norway to these sides, without doing anything about it. By saying no to the licensing system you only accept this. Although we have different ideological views about games and monopolies, at least I hoped that we could find some common sense solutions, which will make sure that we flag some of the tax revenue back home, and that we will increase the level of funding for volunteering and other societal purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1637	One thing is that the rapporteur explains what a large majority in the committee is in favour of. It's pretty common in this room. It is more unusual that the proposer of Document 8 performs to make a complete statement without making a single argument as to why this proposal should be adopted. I said in my first post that you try to solve problems people don't have. It's completely free, but it's very strange that you have to do it in a way that creates more problems for people. The representative Heimdal was offended because I called it an inhuman policy. Well, let me take it back and call it hearty. If you've met people who've experienced that they're going with the family on the Kiel ferry for vacation, and then the money's been wasted before they add berth in Germany, and the holiday's over, or people who have experienced that their closest has killed themselves because of game problems, or that they've experienced that house, job and family going in the laundry, then as politicians we have to ask: what can we do to help these people? I fully accept that the Progress Party gives the bluff in it, but they have to endure from this pulpit to meet arguments based on knowledge that if the gaming companies that have one overall goal, namely to make the most of money, have to choose between accountability measures and greater profit, then these companies will choose greater profit – as the ministry's letter says. This is where the difference from Norwegian Typing is so fundamental, because that company does not have the greatest possible profit as a goal. It's quite right, as Roy Steffensen says, that of course it's going to increase the spillage of the monopoly. But that's what we're going to avoid, because Norwegian Typing doesn't have the greatest possible play as a goal. If you're really so dissatisfied with the fact that Norwegian Typing advertises Lotto or football tipping or the odds, which have completely minimal gambling problems, we can, through the council, make sure that they advertise less. We can't do that with Unibet or the other companies. They're without such a type of control. So come up here, arguments for the proposal and tell us why it's better for people and not just for the hard companies abroad who can make more money, and we're going to have a real debate. I don't understand what's going on with the Progress Party, which is against everything we do here in Norway. We have had a monopoly of games, a system that has guaranteed volunteering, the heart of local communities around Norway. It's the Progress Party against it. What's so wrong with the Norwegian way of doing things? I also think that the Progress Party can come up and explain when they come to grips with what is the very bearer of the entire income of volunteering in Norway. The grassroots percentage – the Progress Party voted against. Now it's $600 million. Right in the box of the volunteer. They should set that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1652	Former Minister of Culture Trond Giske may not have come to realize that the system of volunteering has never been better than after the Progress Party put in government. But that's just a matter of fact. Another point is that we have had two other representatives from the Progress Party in the pulpit here today, who have put forward a number of good arguments as to why this is correct. I do not know whether it was that Trond Giske's representative did not listen, or whether he just ignored the arguments they made, but at least they have been brought forward from this pulpit, and I believe that it will also be recorded soon. It may be a bit tempting to ask this representative, who properly moderated his use of words and called the proposals of the Advance Party for ‘heart eight’, whether he believes that all his political colleagues across Europe are also heartbroken — socialists, social democrats, who sit and rule, and who actually share in allowing models other than gambling monopolies in their countries. I do not remember, or have recorded, that there was anything said about the heart of his political colleagues in other countries. But the Progress Party – of course, it's something completely different, because now we're in Norway. But just a little bit of the point the Progress Party has made is that our neighbours in other countries have thought differently. We should also occasionally dry up in Norway. But, as I said, because the Progress Party does nothing to stand alone. And yes – to the representative Trond Giske on all the questions: I have met families affected by this, I have met individuals who have made contact because they have had gambling problems, I have also had contact with people affected by suicide in that problem. And let there be no doubt that, of course, gambling addiction and gambling madness are a great human tragedy. Of course, the Progress Party agrees. There should be no doubt whatsoever about that. It's humanity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1665	If the alleged co-humanity of the Progress Party was more important than bowing down to large capital and aggressive foreign gambling companies, one would have been defenders of just the Norwegian game model and the way we've done it here in the country over the years, and clear to regulate games in a way that allows people to play, but we allow them to be responsible. The fact that all the profits from the money people tap for, go to sport, culture and volunteering across the country – to balloons, choirs and sports throughout the country, in all municipalities – is a model worth taking care of. The point is that the Progress Party is demonstrably wrong, and many people have said this today, but I want to say it again: it is not true that all these large international, aggressive gaming companies want to come to Norway and work under license. No, of course they won't, because then they won't make any more money. For if you are to be subject to a licence, you must be required. There are demands these gambling companies don't want to deal with, and they act aggressively, they act irresponsiblely, and they ruin their lives to people. They can – already today – act responsibly, as Norsk Typing does. They don't choose to do that, because that's not what they're making money on. If maybe two or three of these companies want to operate on a Norwegian license, it's great and fine. But the vast majority of these companies don't want that. The only thing to do by establishing a licensing system is to weaken Norwegian Typing, weaken the work against gambling addiction, while at the same time wanting to have the big, aggressive grey zone market there anyway. You don't solve a problem. All you do is expose those who are in danger of gambling addiction and those who depend on gambling to even more pressure. It's great that individual representatives from the Progress Party want to bet money on who's going to be the new president of the United States. It's not a problem. But we know that for extremely many people, the amount of game advertising, the amount of calls that come, that these foreign gaming companies are aggressively engaging in, what often makes them have to leave home and home. The Labour Party wants to protect and further develop the Norwegian game model, because it is the only model that takes into account vulnerable people, which makes it possible to play at attractive games anyway, and that keeps economic life in sport, volunteering and culture throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1678	The representative of Himanshu Gulati has had the word twice before, and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1683	The representative Giske said that the Progress Party "gives the bluff in" people with gambling problems, because we want a licence model instead of a monopoly, and the representative Trettebergstuen said that the Progress Party has a "claimed humanity" because we have a different solution than her own. It's as innocuous as if I were to say that the Workers' Party is giving the scam to people with gambling problems, because they have a solution that doesn't include any more gambling companies in the fight against gambling addiction, which could then hit more people with problem gambling. And it's as innocuous as if I were to say that the Workers' Party only has an alleged co-humanity towards volunteering and voluntary teams and organizations, because they have a model that gives less money to the kind of voluntary organizations than a licensing model, that had gotten more into tax revenue.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1688	It's a bit strange to follow this debate and participate in it. It seems that all those who have been on the platform have been more concerned with criticising the proposals of the Progress Party than, for example, those of the European Parliament. to reflect a little on what today's system is like. Is it working today? Everyone seems to be very satisfied, because there are no alternative suggestions in the hall today. Ergo you're satisfied with Norsk Typing, despite that we know that 50 pst. by the market is unregulated, that 50 pst. plays in an unregulated market. At the same time, we know that there has been a huge increase in the number of players who have problems. Nevertheless, no one seems to suggest making changes. So they think the system we have today, with the exclusive model and Norwegian Typing, works great. It works perfectly – even if we miss turnover and lose tax revenue. It is also a touching concern for vulnerable people who are struggling with gambling problems. I'm giving it to you completely. I also think it's problematic with people who have problems, and we have to be able to put in place systems that can catch them up. But to criticise the Progress Party and say that they will make sure that people get problems – when we already know that there has been a huge increase in problem players, and we know that today you can have a loss limit, as it says in the notes, at NOK 20 000 a month at Norsk Typing. Then I wonder where the sympathy for the vulnerable occurs with the representative Trond Giske or with the representative Trettebergstien. Is that at $2010? Is it only when this concern for the vulnerable strikes? Is it only when you're going to worry about suicide statistics and whether families are going down? I think the proposals of the Progress Party with a licensing model will get more into a regulated market, and it will be easier to capture problem players. We're going to get more turnover, and we're going to get more money that can be allocated to sport, culture and volunteering, while at the same time getting consumers a much better offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1703	I think it's interesting to hear that representatives of the Progress Party suspect those who support the exclusive right model's commitment to the vulnerable players and to all those who are struggling with game problems. You talk about who to listen to, and you don't. Let me just point out that although the exclusive model certainly has potential for improvement, those who actually work with gambling addicts and game problems are unique in its recommendation: if we are to choose a model, as in the proposal for a new game policy, everyone is in favour of the exclusive model. They have weighed it against the licence model, which the Progress Party applauds, even the argument that it helps them with game problems. And then I'm pretty clear. I'm talking here about Actis and Akan. I'm talking about the LO, the Sports Association, the National Association of Public Health, the Blue Cross, the Red Cross and the Dam Foundation. All of these are quite clear on which model works best in terms of gambling addiction. I recommend that the representatives of the Advance Party take it over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1709	Let me commend the representative Steffensen for at least going into the matter and arguing about what he thinks will happen if you cancel the exclusive right model. The problem is that there are very few people who have studied this, who support what Steffensen says. The letter from the department is crystal clear. You compare with what you've done in neighboring countries, and you say it's going to be more problematic to prevent gambling addiction. It becomes more problematic to intervene against aggressive advertising. It becomes more problematic to deal with all the grey zones, because no matter how many licenses you grant, there will still be companies that don't have a license. So if you agree with the problem, like Silje Hemdal, who assures that she has great sympathy with the gambling addicts, and therefore it doesn't matter what the Progress Party proposes here in the Chamber – that's what we do, that matters. It is not long since we gave the government authority and all the support to go after advertising illegal games on channels that are directed against a Norwegian audience. It is an active action to help the addicts. To say that we have a great deal of sympathy with the addicts and that is why, as Steffensen said, we are letting go of a huge increase in gambling – that must be the wrong way. We can discuss if NOK 20 000 is the right limit, but at least you don't play away your house at NOK 20 000, and you live pretty tight. But once again, if the Progress Party thinks it's too high, they're free to propose it here and oblige the government to tighten it up. That's what's good about the exclusive model, that we can control it, that we have the opportunity to intervene. To say that you want to help an alcoholic because there's a lot of smuggler's liquor, and then you have to help by saying that yes, then we'll do it freely for that smuggler in the grocery stores, that would be crazy. No, that's the proposal of the Advance Party, yes – I'm sorry, President! It's just as pointless to help an alcoholic with a lot more alcohol in the store as it is to help a game addict with a lot more games into the TV room and otherwise. You have to have the measures that actually help. So you can always say, where does that limit go? Nor do I understand why the Progress Party is always going to point to what is being done abroad, if we can do it in a Norwegian way, in Norway, which is appropriate to Norwegian citizens and Norwegian tradition, Norwegian volunteity and Norwegian history. It would have been good if the Progress Party opened their eyes for how much good we are doing in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1720	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1737	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group, 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to 6 lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1744	I want to start by thanking the committee for the work and not least a common commitment to reading. There will certainly be a somewhat calmer debate on this matter. Initially, the committee refers to the consensus we had in the budget setting for 2021, where we wrote together that we are concerned about the decline in reading and changing reading patterns, and that we in the work to reverse this need to use time and work with the literature organisations. The Committee refers to the book industry’s read policy proposals on five specific points, but also to the national library strategy extended to 2024. The aim of this strategy is for libraries to reach new users with literature and reading. For 2021, financial support has been provided for more than a hundred dissemination actions around the Norwegian public library. The Committee is also united in seeing literature in a double perspective – both cultural policy and knowledge policy. For the Right, it is important to highlight that much has been done in recent years. I have all mentioned the library strategy, although we also acknowledge that we still have a way to go. Over the years, the government has focused on the knowledge policy with a focus on the basic skills of students and the empowerment of teachers. Furthermore, we have just issued the language law, which covers fields that are strategically important for Norwegian to be a fully-fledged and societal language in the future. This includes, inter alia: public responsibility for ensuring a Norwegian-language cultural and media offer, the value of good Norwegian training and the development of Norwegian professional language. In the message section, the government writes that they see the need to launch a work to look at how the cultural, knowledge and business policy objectives of literature policy can best be achieved in the future. Right-wing wants a literature policy that helps to secure the breadth of authorship and light up the interest of young people and gives the reader the power. We then need schemes that not only reward authors who write ‘the best language’ or write ‘the best literature’. We also need to contribute to increasing diversity among those who train as librarians to the important libraries around our country. I am pleased that the government is now conducting an investigation into the book market. The structure of the industry, digitisation and fixed-price schemes are among the themes to be explored. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the organisation Reader looking for a book, which the next Thursday launches the hundreds best books for anyone who reads in the backwind, and the Association! read, which the same day awards Youth Criticism Prize 2021. Both associations make important efforts to arouse the interest of young Norwegian readers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1765	The fact that people, and especially children and young people, read less, we have reason to be deeply concerned about. It has a cultural policy side, but it also has an educational policy side. There is no doubt that there is a need for action. It is therefore sad to see that the right-hand side sees the same situation as us – they also point out that it is serious and worrying – but will not be involved in introducing measures. On the contrary, it is desirable to see how this focus has been in recent years. The provisional measures imposed in the financial year 2019 were closed almost in the second when the lights at the Frankfurt Book Fair were switched off. Less readable among children and young people, the school results are affected. Less readable among people also threatens the Norwegian language. We're a small language area. Available literature in our own language, which is also read, is essential for keeping our language alive. We were actually going to adopt a language law today, it's going to be postponed to the next week. We all agree that this is important, that the Norwegian language is important to take care of, and that it is available. Nevertheless, the position will not be included in read-only measures today. The Labour Party has proposed a reading, writing and calculation guarantee in school seven times in the last four years. We have proposed strengthening the basics to strengthen the work of reading. The right-hand side has voted against. Several times we have also discussed and proposed read-only strategies here in the Chamber. We have proposed a literary promise, better purchasing arrangements, that books become faster and easier to access in the libraries, and we also strengthen the literacy organisations, which are doing a crazy job of disseminating Norwegian literature and making children and young people in particular want to read. I react slightly when the case rapporteur points out that it is a read-only measure that the government will now investigate the book market. So doubting about the fixed-price system and putting it open — if you were to go that way and cancel that system — would not be good for Norwegian literature and the diversity of Norwegian literature. It would also not be good for the reader, who sits at the other end and gets a smaller variety of books to choose from. I address the suggestions in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1782	The representative Anette Trettebergstuen has taken up the proposals of the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1787	I will first of all throw myself at the praise that the rapporteur had from our reading lists. It was justified. Secondly, I would like to say that this is a nice thing, and I was happy when I read the representative proposal, for whom can it be against creating readers in the Norwegian population? At least not a mother like me, who is pleased with all the measures that can help my son to become at least as happy to read books as I was at his age. The competition for children and the attention of others is great, so it must be actively worked to get up the reading light, on the way home in my family and in this room. From a political point of view, targeted and continuous efforts are required through different instruments and actions, which the Centre fully supports. We support reading strategies, be it national or local, we support reading organisations that stimulate literacy, and not least we support the fact that we have good conditions and arrangements for the development and dissemination of Norwegian literature. Creating interest in reading is a long-term and laborious work, but it's an investment gold worth. It contributes to the smoothing of social differences and the creation of cultural communities. Reading also contributes to knowledge and to developing critical thinking, as well as to stimulating other senses, not to talk about our imagination and creativity – all important to the reader’s future choices and opportunities, at least if one is young. We therefore need to work actively and specifically here against children and young people. Unfortunately, studies show a decreasing trend in this group. Books have, as mentioned, been given strong competition from other exciting leisure activities, such as gaming, social media, Netflix, etc. How to inspire more reading to reverse this trend? Targeted actions and continuous efforts will be necessary. After the last national read strategy was completed in 2019, the government has not come up with a new independent reading strategy. It doesn't seem good to the Center Party, and we therefore support SV in that we need a new read-only strategy. However, the centre party believes that the proposals from SV are a little too detailed. That is why, in the Central Party, we are promoting our own proposal in which we limit ourselves to asking the government to promote a read strategy that contains long-term measures to strengthen commitment and interest in reading across the whole population. The strategy shall include measures to enhance access to literature and to facilitate reading promotion in schools, workplaces and other relevant places. With that, I recommend the proposal we have with the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1798	The importance of reading can hardly be exaggerated. For learning and knowledge, it is quite obvious how important reading skills are, but also for, among other things. Reading is a vital prerequisite for democratic participation. Being able to fit in with what's happening, being able to participate in the public word change -- yes, it depends to a large extent on reading. This is why, for example: the importance of the public library, which means that children and young people in particular, regardless of background, have a place where reading can take place. Then reading and literature are bearers of culture concretely through the dissemination of stories, stories – stories that allow us to put ourselves into reality we would otherwise not be able to get into, for example. when young people growing up on the west side here in the capital can read Aunt Ulrikke's way and get a completely different look at her city. It's because of reading, to a large extent. I have also personally experienced the importance of reading. As a young boy who wasn't so interested in sitting down and reading books, it helped quite a lot when there was national reading competition at school, and I got a book – not just handed out a book, I got to pick a book, and it's important – that was adapted to me. It gave me an interest in reading that I might not have had otherwise. But we see a worrying trend and development, which is that young people read less. Fewer kids are reading now than before, and it's all about, among other things. that competition over time and our attention is focused. The founders and managers of the big technology companies, like Netflix, say that's what they're really competing for – the time for all of us. Therefore, action is needed. I think it's a pity that we've had a great book year, and with Frankfurt and everything, but now we're standing without a national read strategy. I also have to say that I am a little surprised that not the whole committee could join if not the very proposal that is our primary position, so at least to ask for a read-only strategy, for that I consider quite uncontroversial. That's a shame, because we have to set up for reading. It doesn't come of itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1811	The government is busy teaching everyone how to read and experience reading people. Being able to read gives opportunities to participate in society. It is the key to creation and reflection. As the representatives point out, there are several challenges when it comes to the reading skills of Norwegian elephants. The government is also concerned about these challenges, and we want to ensure that all children and young people receive a good reading training and reading development throughout the training cycle. When the Language Loop strategy ended in 2019, read-stimulation funds continued from 2020. In this year's government budget, it's 4 million. to the scheme, where private, voluntary and non-profit organisations may apply for support for read-award measures. Over the cultural budget, the government makes good use of both the production and dissemination of a variety of literature. We offer support to several organisations that contribute to the long-term spread of reading and work to different target groups across the country. In the National Library Strategy for the period 2020-2023, the objective is to reach new users with literature and reading, to facilitate knowledge dissemination and to increase their digital collections. The autumn of 2020, the school was given new curricula through trade renewal. Reading skills and motivation are weighted there. Students have to read both fictional literature and sacs, and they have to master different read strategies. The curriculum also helps students to learn how to use libraries. Good reading training is also about teachers who have up-to-date competence in the field. The government has, among other things, This is facilitated both by the provision of further training and by a decentralised mechanism for developing skills. To strengthen the school libraries, we have an incentive scheme for municipalities to seek support for the development of their reading-stimulation work in schools. This year, it's $14.5 million. kr. All these are long-term measures to stimulate reading interest in the population. In recent years, we have received several reports that have given us a lot of knowledge of reading training and reading development. Instead of ordering more reports, we now want to prioritise and look closely at the knowledge base we have, and consider any new measures – in addition to the many measures we already have – based on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1832	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1837	Reading of your mother of all learning, it's called. Reading a lot gives better results in all subjects in school. So what we all agree with is that it's important. I see in the papers here that the majority are very happy that the government is now initiating an investigation into the book market. Among other things, the structure of the book industry, digitisation and fixed-price schemes are themes to be explored by the government. Then I wonder: How does the Council of State think that an investigation into the fixed-price system could contribute to increased reading capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1844	The fixed price of books is an important literature policy tool, and the Granavolden platform determines that the fixed price arrangements for books should be passed on to this government. At the same time, we need more knowledge of how to improve competition in the book market. Because even though very many people are in favour of a fixed price agreement and we are going to have a system for it, competition in the book market is equally important, so that one gets a wide range of books out, and that it benefits consumers. In this context, the Ministry of Culture, together with the Ministry of Food and Fisheries, has ordered an independent distribution of the book market. We expect that this will also respond to a number of other key issues, such as: the impact of industry structures on innovation and start-up. As I said, it's an independent distribution, so I don't know what she's going to point to, but I'm going to read her with interest when she comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1852	So, if I understand the answer, there's a certain relationship between the book industry and the market, and kids want to read more. I don't quite understand that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1857	The book market is not now available on a special basis when it comes to reading for children. She's more about book politics in general. I think we can all be a few that it is important to have a well-functioning book market with good competition, where a surer both the authors of good compensation and children, young and mature access to literature at reasonable prices, so that one gets the opportunity to read the most available. As I said, today's policy, which is anchored in the government platform, is solid. At the same time, rapid changes in the book market are taking place all the time, not least through technological developments, the audiobook market, etc. So getting an independent explanation of how this structure works, I think we'll look forward to it. I also hope that the Workers' Party will be happy to gain more knowledge on the table, so that we can all design policies in a knowledge-based way, not least to get more people to read and ensure as many as possible access to good books.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1864	In conclusion, the Council of State said that it now had so much knowledge of this that it would rather be seen in the system and take action. You didn't want a strategy. Very familiar was the read-only strategy we had until 2019, successfully. Is it so to understand that the government and the Council of State did not think it was particularly successful? Or is it that, in general, strategies do not seem successful in themselves as a long-term instrument?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1871	Yes, we thought that strategy was a success. These include: Therefore, as I said, we have passed on the funds that were in the strategy after the strategy had ended, so that one can ensure that the many important organisations and initiatives we have here have a good framework for continuing to provide a reading light. If the government didn't think that strategies were reasonable from time to time, I would hardly mention in my post that we are now in the process of implementing a national library strategy, which is valid from 2020 to 2023, which, to a large extent, also facilitates reading, among children, young people and adults. We must constantly be looking for the importance of getting strategies in place when there is a need to change course, implement a power cap and set in motion new tools, but it is also not such that strategies are good at being eternal or constantly dissolving each other. We take with us the best from the strategy we've had, we've passed on funds for important reading activities after that, and we're now working on both an important library strategy and new curricula in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1882	It became quite quiet after the book year was over a few years ago. Our beautiful stand in Frankfurt was packed, Karl Ove Knausgård went home, and we were left without a national read-only strategy. I record that the Council of State believes there is no need for a strategy, and that it is consistent with some measures here and there. But the fact that a fairly comprehensive field and reading area, to call it that, points out, is that a strategy is needed to coordinate actions, get more long-term and raise work to a higher level. Therefore, I have to ask the Council of State whether this is how we have to plead that we have to wait until the next time we are the main country at the Frankfurt Book Fair, to get a new read strategy with this government's policy – or if it should be otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1891	This government is taking the initiative for new strategies in different areas when we see that there is a need for them. This doesn't mean that when a field has ended a strategy and does not immediately move forward with a new one, it is the field down priority, or it is not interested in it. In that case, we will have to establish that the vast majority of policy areas, regardless of government, are completely deprived. Of course that's not the way it is. The strategy we have adopted has been successful. We pass on all the lessons we learn from him in the concrete promises we now give to important organisations that work for literacy, through the funds that are administered both by the state, by the National Library and others, who are popular, and who people are looking for, and through the new strategy for libraries that are now being worked on and under way. So I'm going to say that we're now working widely with both resources and knowledge to bring out the literacy of children and young people, and of course we'll always be better at it. But neither does it represent action in itself to ask for a strategy. Often it means that you don't have so many good ideas yourself, and I like to discuss concrete initiatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1900	In the proposal for Strategy SV, a number of good measures are mentioned and highlighted for the success of such a strategy. One of the points of asking for a new strategy now is a recognition that one has had a strategy that has worked, now unfortunately we don't have a strategy anymore, but the problem is still there. Not least the numbers we see when it comes to problems with children's reduced reading, to say it like that, are still there. Therefore, it is relevant to ask for a new strategy. That is why the whole field is asking for a new strategy. That is why I believe that the Council's response is not a good argument. I want to ask the Council of State another question. In this proposal, we also point in particular to the school libraries. It's important, I've seen that the council has engaged in the past, too, but unfortunately, the school libraries are often just a room with some books in it. That is why we propose to make some demands, but it does not receive the support of the majority parties either. Why not?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1907	I have a great commitment to the school library. I also know that Minister of Culture and Gender Equality Abid Q. Raja has. It's just because school library isn't just a room with some books in it, but they're just for a lot of kids the first window out towards a bigger value. I want to say it in such a big word, because this is an important arena for a lot of people. It gives good encounters with the world literature, it gives way to reading, it gives way to reading. School libraries can also be a very important collaborator and a place for inclusion. In the innovation and the new curricula, which I pointed out in my article, we are facilitating students to develop their literacy skills throughout the training process. The use of a school library in that context is important in that work. In order to help strengthen the school libraries, the government also has its own incentive scheme, which municipalities can search for just to launch good projects with read stimulation, and it is a popular scheme. There should be no doubt that our commitment to the school library is large, and that we also act to get that commitment into actual results.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1914	I appreciate the government's commitment to the school libraries, but the more disappointing it is to see the rather lack of mention of the school libraries in the library strategy, to mention one thing, and not least that the concrete proposals for improvements that come from SV in this case do not receive the support of the government parties. The suggestions are pretty simple, because if a school library is going to be something more than just a room with some books in it -- I totally agree that a lot of school libraries are, unfortunately there are some school libraries that are still that way -- you can for example. make two very simple and straightforward general demands: that there must be a plan for the school library in the municipality and that there must be a school librarian present. Then there's at least a room with books and a librarian, and that can help. So I wonder, why can't it be part of the government's policy to go in for the same requirements as SV does?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1923	In the national library strategy for 2020–2023, we specifically called for projects within new forms of cooperation between public libraries and school libraries. It's important. It is also important that training laws clearly stipulate that all students should have access to a school library, while, of course, it is not enough. The Ministry of Knowledge is now working on sending proposals for a new training law on hearing. It's going out before summer. In that work, a very specific school library rule is being reviewed. I don't think I'm going to pre-conclusion here either on behalf of the Ministry of Culture or – more relevant – on behalf of the Ministry of Knowledge when it comes to what new proposals will come when you look at the training law, school library and regulation around it. But of course, we're taking all the recordings from the Storing in that way and we're not going to reject them. It is listed, and I hope that there will be a good process when the new training law is to be heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1930	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1950	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1957	The ongoing pandemic has had and has serious consequences for the cultural sector. The disease situation is unpredictable and it is difficult to predict developments in both the short and long term. Still the necessary changes in the infectious diseases councils and national and local rules make it incredibly demanding to plan activities. The proposal from SV, which we are now discussing, is about creating a plan for a safe reopening of cultural life. In order to compensate for lost income, the Ministry has put in place a compensation scheme and an incentive scheme to date of a total of 1.8 billion. kr. In addition, the government has proposed 650 million. kr for the continuation of the arrangements. This will be a good thing in the current situation. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State has said that the government will continue to support the cultural sector as long as we have interventional measures for the protection of infectious diseases that limit the sector’s ability to carry out activities. The scenario thinking of health authorities, presented by the Government of Prop. 79 S for 2020-2021, is an important premise for the reopening of all sectors of society, including the cultural sector. Three alternative scenarios have been developed for the development of the pandemic in the future, and the government has outlined one optimistic scenario, one intermediate scenario and one pessimistic scenario. Governments have launched two major efforts to plan a gradual and sound reopening of the cultural sector. The first is the Norwegian Cultural Council and the Norwegian Film Institute, which have been commissioned to produce an overview of the longer-term consequences of the pandemic and the challenges and opportunities it has provided in the field of culture. A working group consisting of persons with high professional competence has also been set up to prepare input to health authorities with proposals for the safe implementation of major outdoor events in the summer to come. The majority of the Committee considers that the various and numerous meetings of the Councils of State with the sector and meetings with the Council of Culture and Bergen Live will be involved and provide important input into the opening of the cultural sector, based on government preparedness and this scenario thinking. We believe that this responds to the intention of the proposal, which is very good, but we would also point out that the municipalities have a special responsibility to facilitate the reopening of cultural life, as all cultural activities take place locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1974	Dealing with the pandemic is a challenge for all sectors of society. It's unpredictable – we get the second wave of infection, we get the third wave of infection. We don't always know what it is that makes it the most infectious, and we don't know which age groups are the most contagious at all times. The whole policy of which the Stortinget and the political environment are united is to protect the most vulnerable and ensure that we take care of life and health and within it facilitates as much activity as possible. Nevertheless, within this concept of hard work that we often talk about, the burden is enormously different. If we had done a good job in the court team or in the sports team according to the same principles as the corona dugna, I think it would have been pretty bad neighbourly relationships or relationships within the sports team. Some sectors bear enormous burdens, the stock exchange sets new records. Someone loses their job and has an insecure future; others do it very well. Some sectors have been hit by a lack of demand, but some have been affected by the fact that we as authorities have actually restricted their activity. The cultural sector and sport and volunteering are an example of the last – sectors that have taken enormous burdens, which have shown a tremendous loyalty and a willingness to set up, but which at the same time have a sense of being at the back of the queue when things get loose again. Southern tours, Swedish commerce, serving places, beer have been put in front of culture and sport once the openings have arrived. There has been improvement for children and young people in sport, but a lot of cultural life is now extremely vulnerable, and these are people who have uncertain incomes – freelancers, people who live from project to project. It is good that we have support schemes at the bottom that ensure that they have housing and food, but we need to get the activity going in a controlled way when the infection situation allows. What this sector is saying is that they feel that there is a lack of response from the government on just this: how can we, for example, do this? plan for activity this summer when we don't know if it's being implemented? How can the risk be relieved, so that we can continue to plan and do not have to pull in the emergency brake too early? How can cultural and pandemic products be designed to maximise our activity, maximum safety and predictability within the enormous uncertainty that the pandemic naturally gives? I believe that the proposal of the 8 rapporteurs and of us who have joined them is an expression of this frustration, that we expect more from the Council of State, more from the Government, to help the sector plan as well as possible within the uncertainty that is, and that one should not always stand at the back of the line. I address the proposal to which we are co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1989	The representative Trond Giske has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e1994	The world is facing one of its greatest trials in our lifetime. We are in a global pandemic that has shut down societies and ruined the livelihoods of many people, enterprises that they have built up throughout their lives, and created great uncertainty for the future, as well as the human costs of solitude, being able to be with friends and those in whom they are happy. This is a crisis affecting all sectors, all areas of society and all countries. No one is exempt. Cultural life is also severely affected. In fact, sadly, cultural life is more affected than many other sectors, precisely because cultural activities are often associated with the audience, and in these days it is not possible to gather. I am therefore very pleased that my good colleague Silje Hemdal was one of the first representatives to address just the fact that we need a plan for a safe reopening of cultural life, also because we see that the path towards a normal situation does not go straight ahead, but for all the two steps we take forward, it is almost one way back, before we can move even further. We are therefore also pleased that the Minister for Culture, among others. after the representative, Mr. Hemdal, took some initiative and set up a working group that addresses many of the things we have raised, and which I think we agree on here in the Storting. We therefore believe that this work is in progress. The work of the group should be broader and more extensive than what may have been done initially, but I believe that the work is in progress. We are pleased, and we therefore see no reason to vote in favour of that proposal from the rest of the opposition that lies here, because we believe the work is in progress. But we ask in the form of a note that the Minister also orientate the Stortinget, keep us informed. And then I just want to repeat what I've said, that I hope that the government and the minister involve as much as possible in this work, so that the work becomes good. For this is something you need to get out of this crisis and get into a normal situation as quickly as possible for cultural life as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2003	Yes, these are demanding times. There are demanding days. There have been too many fields and very many sectors, including culture and sport. But because culture and sport are struggling, other businesses and volunteering are also struggling. That's why it's so important to look at the possibility of planning events that will help both the economy and the activity, that you have a good plan. I'm glad that the government is working together on how to reopen culture with subsequent activities, but me and the Center Party are, like the rest of the cultural life, uncertain about the breadth of cultural life and others have been taken well enough into that discussion, and that's one of the reasons why we are behind the proposal today. There has been no lack of examples of different fields and industries falling outside various schemes, and the Central Party fears that even when planning to open up. We wonder: Is the event industry included in this planning? Are the gamers included? What about the museums? Or what about volunteering, for that matter, which is so dependent on the income they receive at all kinds of events, right now in the summer? Like the Workers' Party, we in the Centre Party place quite high demands and high expectations on the work that the government and the Minister are now doing, and we really hope that the Minister will take on board that more people need to be invited here in planning than those who seem to have been allowed to come to the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2012	Life and health come first, but now is also the time to plan for what to do. People are missing cultural life now. People miss being close to concerts and festivals and jumping and dancing all night long. People in cultural life, those who arrange, those who work on this, miss being able to give what they love to create, but they're also tired. They're sorry, and many of them are also quite pissed off, and I get that. Because through this pandemic, the government has been systematically behind in crisis management for cultural life. There have been constant crisis mechanisms and plans that have been full of holes and gaps. And then it's not least the recognition that cultural life is now left with after a year of pandemic, that cultural life is first to be shut down and last to be opened up, every time. I understand the frustration after you end up at the bottom of the priority list every time. That is why we are promoting this proposal. The pandemic is unpredictable – we all understand that, we know it ourselves – but crisis management must be about giving as much predictability as possible. That's why we need that reopening plan when the infection situation opens up – not one day too early, but when it opens up to it. It has to happen in close cooperation with those who wear the shoes, those who know the field and the entire width of it. I can say that it is commendable that, after this proposal was promoted – and it appeared at the time that there was a majority – the Council of State Raja started two works. In particular, I would like to congratulate this summer group, which it has become called. It is very good that they are in the process of looking at how the large outdoor festivals will be able to carry out activities during the summer. It's important. But the works that the Council of State has started are shut down in two areas, unfortunately. One is what several have mentioned – the width – because we also have indoor festivals that use fixed concert scenes. We have year-round organisers and a number of other fields that are not included in the work. They must also be involved, because of course the measures must also be taken. So, of course, there's a big challenge to what Raja has done, that the health authorities aren't included in the groups working on it, because how can you get to the practical solutions, down to the level of detail, without them sitting around the same table? That is why we have promoted this proposal anyway and have the comments that also give some concrete orders as to what the work should look like.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2023	The pandemic has been going on for a long time now, and I have a lot of understanding that everyone wants care, everyone wants dates, everyone wants to know when things are going to happen. But the pandemic is probably not all over yet, and I want to say that it's that I'm here today, well, it's kind of a testimony about that. The number of vaccines you will get when is still inconceivable. It means that it's not possible to navigate precisely when cultural life and society around us can open up or plan to open up to normal activity. And this is demanding, I understand that it's frustrating for many – for festivals, for games, for all those who don't want to do anything other than run with what they usually do and enjoy and think about. There is a proposal here today that the government, in cooperation with cultural life, should re-develop a plan for the safe opening up of cultural life. That's exactly what the government has now done, through two concrete grips. Firstly, we have set up a working group to provide advice and input and health authorities with a view to the possible implementation of large outdoor events this summer. The group made recordings last Monday, they were passed on the same day to the health authorities, so they can assess this in their work to re-open society. Secondly, we have given a mission to the Norwegian Cultural Council and Norwegian Film Institute on the longer-term consequences of the pandemic and the challenges and possibilities that the pandemic has given for the cultural field. The purpose of the mission is to identify and analyse the consequences of the pandemic for the cultural sector, and to assess the measures in place to rebuild the sector once the restrictions have essentially been lifted. At the same time, I am aware that a branch of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries has sent over their input to the health authorities to reopen large indoor events, including concerts. I know that the working group that we have set up has dialogue with that branch group. That being said, I have to point out that reopening the cultural sector is not something that can be considered isolated. It is the Health Directorate and the FHI who are responsible for ensuring that infectious measures are jointly and severally defended. Nor is there any doubt that the infectiveness situation in society and the rate at which the population is vaccinated can be reopened and normalised, as well as in the cultural sector. The Ministry and the Council of State are responsible for providing health authorities with as good professional advice as possible to contribute to the rapid and safe reopening of the cultural sector. Let me conclude by saying that I know that we are all busy getting the cultural sector back on track at all levels. The cultural sector is a hard frame, harder frame than many, and there are many of us who long to experience art and culture again. The trainers do it, and I think that we, as audiences, do it. At least the government has to do its job to make it happen as soon as it can.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2040	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2045	We can't predict when we're going to reopen our cultural life, but at least we can plan how we're going to do it when it happens. That is what this proposal is about. It is gratifying that two works have been started, a long-term work that is more about what happens after the Korona for cultural life – it is also interesting, but it is in itself something quite different from what this proposal is about – and a group that is especially about the big outdoor festivals. My question to the Council of State is: how to arrive at concrete infectious protection solutions for, for example: a festival that uses the entire urban space and different scenes around the urban space, when you don't have the kind of professional competence in such a group? Does the Council not see the point of this proposal to ask for broader work?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2055	There is no doubt that we need to plan for how to re-open when it is possible to re-open. That's precisely because we've seen these work going on, and it's an important work. No matter how many and who are in the working groups, you will always be able to point out someone else that should be in it. In any case, our view is that this working group that is currently working is made up of the important competence that is crucial to providing good advice in the situation we are currently in. In this case, the government and health authorities needed practical advice for the organisation of events. For the best possible result in the short term, it was therefore important that the working group be composed of people with high level of professional competence who have practical experience in organising and implementing events, and therefore concretely what challenges different organisers face. This is a good initiative we have taken, and hopefully we will be able to put good advice into practice when possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2064	Let there be no doubt that I have great hopes and am very pleased with the work that this ‘summer group’, as Councillor Raja has called it, will do in the future. There is definitely a high level of professional competence, to put it mildly. The problem is that when it comes to finding concrete solutions for how to make events in a safe way under the rules on the protection of infection, it has, for example, been found. something to say about whether it's going on indoors, whether it's going on outdoors, whether it's going on on one concert stage or whether it's going on on many concerts around a city room, where people go back and forth. All of this is not included in – to say the same – the competence of that group. It appears that it is difficult for the government to relate to cultural life and to find out how to get the dialogue that is needed and that is most appropriate, but there are also organisations that have all this competence and breadth, such as Norwegian Concertors. Why are they not included?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2071	It is by no means difficult to ‘react’ to cultural life, but it is clear that cultural life is in a difficult situation, and many people are very frustrated. I can understand that very well. It is true that there are different aspects of, for example: outdoor arrangement versus indoor arrangement. As I said in my post, it is such that the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries has set down a separate industry group that works with recordings of indoor events, including for example. concerts. We look at all the different aspects of this, and of course we take input from everyone who has good input to give us, and we appreciate them very much. I think, however, that no matter how good we get advice, and how good we plan, it's what determines how fast we can reopen, how fast we get access to different vaccines, how fast we get to the population, how fast we can avoid different dangerous mutations, and so we can do safe arrangements. I think we're all a few about the goal here, no matter what kind of event it's about.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2080	The Council of State says that all good input is received, but what has made cultural life so cursed – which is the right word to use – through the management of this pandemic is precisely that the dialogue between cultural life and the ministry has been mildly said to be deficient. They do not feel that they are included. They feel that there are still changes in the rules that get very unfortunate results, which could be cleaned up if they had been in the same room when the rules were decided. Instead you have to go long laps afterwards, and then it gets fixed up again because the government sees the same thing as cultural life, of course. My last question concerns the inclusion of health authorities in this work. If practical solutions are to be found, should you not, as we propose in this matter, ensure that health authorities also sit around the same table as this professional competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2087	I'll get to the point that it's not like everything the government does is perfect, not everything the Ministry of Culture does. At the same time, when there are constant claims from the opposition party that the one and the other group do not have confidence in the work the government is doing, we now find that the dialogue is good, with both, for example. sport, where it was found today that the various leaders have great confidence in the work of the government and in cooperation with the cultural sector. That being said, of course, one can always be better and make sure that the dialogue is even better. We're busy playing with the culture, even when we're working on reopening, and that's why we're working with them on those plans. When it comes to the specific issue of health authorities, we are in close contact with health authorities and have been involved in setting up the working group. We have received concrete proposals for who should be part of it, and, as I said, once a recommendation has been received, which came last Monday, it has also been sent to the health authorities for their assessments. It is clear that the various economic operators and economic operators here, in cooperation with the health authorities, will come up with good advice, and then we will put in place good policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2096	Then the representative of the Supreme Court will be given the last line by the President. The president reminds us that 60 seconds is 1 minute, and asks the representative to stay within it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2101	The problem is that it is not primarily the opposition – even if it is us – it comes from when we claim that the government does not have a good dialogue with the cultural field. I don't know what other fields say, but it's at least the crystal clear feedback the field itself gives and is pretty clear on – I think the Minister of Culture can sign that, to say it like that – in the debates that have taken place, so here there are absolute improvements to make. Then just the lack of width in the work on a reopening plan is a good example of that. My last question is a follow-up question to this with the health authorities. The council said in its answer that they come together about recording now, but the problem is that they just don't, because they're not sitting around the same table. That's what the cultural field also points to, that a group to send recordings is something other than putting together and talking.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2108	When we set up this working group, there was close contact with the health authorities, who themselves said that they did not want to participate in the working group, but expressed their satisfaction at having her sit down, so that they could get professional input for their advice in the further work. On the basis of the exchange of views here and the debate, a few impressions may be that the concrete proposal we are talking about here is a kind of detailed plan to re-open or a list of who should be in a working group. But it isn't. There is a Document 8 proposal for a total of four sentences, with a proposal for a working group to be set up. The workgroup is set down, it gives us advice, and we work to reopen and set a plan for that very thing. I don't think the inconsistency here is as terrible as the seemingly impressive impression of it through the replication.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2115	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2134	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2153	There is no doubt that cabotage and illegal cabotage are a major challenge in terms of truck, wagon and freight transport, but of course there is also a major challenge in the bus industry, especially in the tourist industry. Today we have met someone in the tourbus industry on the outside of the house here who has been concerned about the problem, but then the problem was to a large extent what went on the rental/owner relationship. But they are very concerned about the consequences of a lot of cabotage driving, and illegal cabotage driving, also on the bus side. Today’s practice in cabotage operations helps to defuse the Norwegian transport industry and the transport industry. There are very uncertain figures relating to the use of cabotage in Norway, but in the light of both the feedback and many of the challenges we are facing on the roads of non-resident road trains, there is no doubt that there is a very high proportion of non-resident road trains on Norwegian roads. In addition, when we know that we have a high cost level in Norway, there is good reason to believe that there is a great deal of cabotage driving, and that this proportion is growing sharply. The use of illegal cabotage not only applies to truck transport, as I said, we also see major challenges both in the tourist bus industry and in the transport of goods and vans. In order to combat and reduce illegal cabotage and transport crime, it is important to put in place tools and systems that ensure it. There are clear deficiencies in the control system we have in Norway. There are many different actors responsible for each part of this. We have the customs authorities, the police, the State Road Administration, the Labour Inspectorate and the tax authorities, all of whom are assigned different control tasks, which means that we lack a comprehensive overview and a comprehensive responsibility to fight, reveal and defeat often well-organised transport crime. As both legislation and control responsibilities are fragmented, there is reason to believe that the risk of detection is relatively low. Infringements are often detected by people in the transport environment and professional journals and periodicals, and serious violations of laws, regulations and regulations are often revealed in the case of illegal cabotage operations in Norway. A concrete example is fraud involving cargo documents, which are time-consuming and difficult to detect. In order to detect such crime effectively, good cooperation with neighbouring countries is also a prerequisite and the control resources available are targeted at goods and heavy goods vehicles. When illegal cabotage operations are not exposed, this gives unprofessional operators a competitive advantage in the market. It is therefore essential for the government to speed up its work and to follow up the Storting decision on a mandatory electronic consignment note. It's probably almost a year since it was adopted. What happens, and where is the follow-up? Many in the transport sector are very impatient now and expect action and solutions. But it is important that a solution is adapted to Norwegian transport reality. We may not be able to demand a shipping note for each gravel case – this needs to be adapted, and I think it is quite possible to do in a good way if you want to. In any case, digital CMR is very important to get in place in such a way that it is not possible to cheat with en route shipping letters, which is what is being done today. It is permitted to modify the consignment note by hand, which is a hair-removing practice, as a consignment note shall be signed by the consignor. When it is allowed to change this with pencil, changing the car and hanging, it is impossible to know what kind of transport you have in front of you. An international load can easily be converted into two continuous copies of the consignment note bearing a new registration number with a pen. This means that an international transport which triggers the right to cabotage journeys suddenly becomes two or more, all of which give entitlement to cabotage operations. Similarly, what is a domestic transport, for example from Skibotn to Gardermoen, carried out with a foreign company via Finland and trading in Finland, is suddenly converted into an international transport without a requirement for a general salary for the majority of the transport between Skibotn and Gardermoen, while also granting the right to cabotage tours at both ends. Unfortunately, large international companies have this as a business model. Whether they pay Norwegian minimum wages or salaries is not controlled. We cannot accept a development in which the market base for transport is narrowed for companies that follow the legislation, while unprofessional tunes and runs. I would therefore challenge the Council of State to make concrete proposals, moving several of the crimes surrounding this with cabotage away from the penal chain, and rather providing for heavy fees/fees that are levied on the ground, so that the illegality can be reduced much more effectively. Because there's one thing unprofessional actors understand, it's money. High fees charged on the spot, and make sure that unprofessional driving is much less profitable and attractive because it no longer pays off. In order to combat the use of illegal cabotage and other transport crime, will the Council of State now initiate a collection of control responsibilities for transport crime, including perhaps the establishment of a separate transport police, and move violations of cabotage from the criminal chain and to higher charges/fees? And: When will the Council of State ensure that decisions on mandatory electronic consignment note are followed up soon a year ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2174	The representative and interpellant Bard Hoksrud are addressing a very important topic. Non-regulatory road transport operators contribute to poor working conditions for drivers and prevent fair competition in the industry. Such unprofessional activity may be a threat to road safety, but may also have other negative consequences for society. I am aware that parts of the road transport sector face particular challenges of unprofessional activity. Among other things, the Labour Inspectorate has discovered that many foreign drivers who run cabotage transport domestically in Norway are underpaid. The government has had strong searchlights on this for a long time, even before I joined the government, and has introduced a number of measures, including: to improve the efficiency of road transport industry control. We must aim at increased and more effective cooperation and adapt cooperation to an ever-changing challenge. Therefore, cooperation between control agencies is a theme that is the focus of the government’s strategy against crime at work, to which I would like to refer in particular. The government's revised strategy on labour crime was presented on 8 February this year. Here, the Ministry of Transport has been given a special follow-up responsibility for measures to strengthen cooperation and follow-up in the road and transport sectors and to strengthen international cooperation between control authorities. I would like to say something about the cooperation in the field of road transport and the measures that have come: Firstly, a dedicated effort has been made to increase cooperation and strengthen control activities in road traffic. The State Road Administration, the Labour Inspectorate, the tax administration, the customs office and the police are involved in this cooperation. Feedback shows that this cooperation works well and contributes to increased competence and understanding in this area. It also contributes to a joint debate on the challenges of road transport at the central level and, in this way, to a common picture of the problems. Secondly, the state road system has strengthened its own efforts to combat labour-life crime, among other things. through the creation of a separate crimping unit that cooperates closely with other enforcement authorities. Thirdly, I would like to point out that the Vegvesen is involved in the tripartite transport and car sector programme in cooperation with the Labour Inspectorate and the social partners. The programme contributes to the active promotion of a level playing field, to the rights of workers and to the reduction of the opportunities for criminal activity in the field of transport, inter alia. mapping, information campaigns and impact work. Fourthly, I would like to refer to the cooperation of the State Road Administration with the a-crime centres, which consists of actors from the tax administration, the Nav, the Labour Inspectorate and the police. The State Road Administration has outlined to the Ministry of Transport that a cross-border professional group could be an appropriate measure to strengthen the competence and increase knowledge of organised crime in the field of road transport. Such work will come in addition to the important control work carried out along the road and in the a-krim centre, and not instead. I have therefore asked the State Road Administration to assess the need and possibilities for an even closer cooperation with other agencies to strengthen work on transport crime further. Fifthly, I would like to point out that the printing police, which have the primary responsibility for police traffic services and are very important for achieving national road safety targets, also have crime reduction as a social task. The Storting asked in its recent treatment of police reports the government to maintain today's organisation of the printing police. Transport authorities cooperate closely with the printing police, for example: for the coordination of control activities. And finally, the different authorities in the road transport sector complement each other well. The many co-operation and co-ordination systems that exist are based on the fact that each contributes to the cooperation with its specific competences and insights from different areas of responsibility. I think this gives a broad and a large pool of strength in the work to counteract transport crime, as it also does in road safety work. With what I've done right here, I think that the interpellant is dealing with coordination, now is very strong, and I think my predecessors have also done a good job of ensuring coordination. That's why I'm not sure about going on with a so-called transport police, because it's broken with the thinking here, and I don't think that's necessary. However, as the interpellant points out, we need to seek to increase and more effective cooperation, and we need to adapt cooperation to an ever-changing picture of challenges. This is targeted and systematic work on a challenge that has no easy solutions or shortcuts to the goal. So I want to say something about streamlined enforcement. The representative refers to the need to streamline enforcement in road transport. Of course, I agree that enforcement and enforcement efficiency is crucial for increased enforcement of the legislation, and the government has therefore streamlined the control effort and strengthened the possibility of physically restraining non-Norwegian vehicles through, for example: use of wheel locks. In the fall, the representative in Stortinget also agreed to adopt a change in law that would allow the retention of driving gear in order to ensure the payment of fines and fees imposed on the owner of a vehicle. In the past, it was only allowed to hold the vehicle in order to ensure payment of penalties imposed on the driver. The corresponding right of withdrawal has also been introduced under the Transport Code to ensure the recovery of penalties imposed. These legislative changes entered into force on 1 January 2021. Otherwise, the Ministry of Transport now facilitates the increased use of breakage charges in response to road traffic offences and professional transport laws. This will also apply to the rules on cabotage operations. It follows up the call decision made in Stortinget. The aim is to strengthen police and the State Road Service’s control and oversight function with a flexible and effective response system. The more serious and repeated offences are, of course, still to be dealt with in the criminal investigation, but the interpellant points to this, which is why there are several responses to the charge track and fines. The work is divided into several phases. The first phase is mainly a violation of the rules on driving and sleeping time. This has been listening, and one aims to put in place the changes already in 2021. These changes include: that the undertaking is to be held more responsible for the offences, and this will in turn contribute to the effective exercise of the right of detention in a vehicle than at present. The brokerage fee for illegal cabotage is part of the next phase and has introduced both legislative and regulatory changes. Proposals for such changes are scheduled to be submitted to the hearing this spring. As I have done well, I believe that the work that is now being done on improving the efficiency of enforcement and recovery by facilitating the increased use of a criminal charge, means that the representative here points to, in reality, has been fulfilled, or is about to be fulfilled. I would also like to point out that in the spring of 2020, the Stortinget asked the government for several concrete measures to counteract the unprofessional transport business. This includes digitisation measures, the collection of fines for infringements of technical requirements for driving and cabotage regulations and the co-responsibility of transport providers. The Ministry now cooperates on further follow-up, and we will come back to Stortinget in our own way on these issues when we are ready for it. We have a strong searchlight for this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2210	I thank the Council of State for the answers so far. It is clear that a lot of work was done in this area several years ago, among other things. with a wheel lock, but I still believe the challenge is that it goes a little late. As for the cooperation that the Council of State had in mind, I agree that it has done a lot of good there, and that there are a lot of good people trying to do a good job. However, it is a major concern that you are still in a state of shock and, after it has been revealed quite serious infringements, you can see that the case ends up being dismissed. Last, there was one case from Vestfold, with illegal transport operations at Bredmyra on Kampenes. The statement I have here shows work that has been Polish driven, and the code “is so complex and requires so much resources that you hesitate to address it,” says Gunnar Nordvik – after the police have concluded that the matter should be resolved. Unfortunately, there are too many of these cases that are being dismissed and not followed up. I think these are good signals from the Council of State that we are now going to make sure that there are consequences, that we are going to increase the level of fines and go from punishment to payment. I think it's good, precisely with the consequence that you get caught up in and out of the unprofessional, because money is something you get, and then something happens. I believe it is also a lot about road safety. Many of those who run around here shouldn't have been driving around. That's why it's good that you want from Stortinget, despite the fact that I realized that some of the police wanted you to remove the emergency police, that it should still be here and be part of this resource. It's important. I also want to say something the Council of State was not within, and that is one of the other challenges about this with illegal cabotage. So it's that in this country, people are driving around that we don't have any idea who they are, and we don't know where they've been, who they're visiting, or what they're doing there. It's very problematic when we're in the middle of a pandemic, because how can you manage to follow up with infection tracking? We have received several enquiries from many in the transport industry who are concerned about this, for those who are unprofessional and illegal and are doing it. I still believe that there is a great deal of work to be done to improve the cooperation between the various floors, especially with the background that we very often see these matters being abandoned. This with the right of detention, which the Stortinget decided on, is very good and positive, but I think the Council of State was a little too vague in terms of what the Stortinget decided in 2020, to have a digital consignment note. State councils have to be a little bit clearer. He said that maybe it was going to be a hearing, or that you were working on it, but I should like to see him even clearer on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2225	I'm already going to have the opportunity to be clearer. What I said about digital shipping letters is that it's something we're working on. Yes, time is running fast, but it hasn't been a year since the decision was taken in this room. There's, of course, some demanding work. I also think everyone understands the importance of having good control when we're going to put it into life. But I can confirm to the representative Hoksrud that we are working on it, and it is important that we follow it up. But it wasn't just that it was pointed out by Stortinges. There were several measures, and we look at the health. Some of what I think is important is that we have to have control. We need controls, and that's what we see now – that we have far more and better controls than we had before. So by 2020, of course, it's been a very special year because of the pandemic. I actually share the concern that the representative Hoksrud points out, that we just attached to a pandemic does not have the control we want. What I can say is that, of course, we have asked for this in dialogue with the health authorities, and the transport sector is given much praise because it has contributed less to the outbreak of infection. It's got great sector. Fortunately, we can say that freight has gone very well and to a very small extent contributed to the outbreak of infection, and I am pleased about that. So I'm going to say that the exact thing about going for a fraction fee, so increasing that part, is right. Too many people here, the money on the bottom line will have a meaning, and then you'll take care of it. As I also said, we should keep ourselves in the penalty for the most serious crimes, but I still think we have to take more actors at an early stage, and then I believe the fee – money – will be a good measure. As I also said in my previous post: Here we are on our way to follow up what Hoksrud pointed to in his post. There is no doubt that this is also about road safety. I said little about it in my post, but that's one of the main concerns about this, and that's also why it's so important to have a width in the control work. That is why I also pointed to both the UP and the control work done by the State Road Administration. In summary, I would like to say that there is a concern about the illegal cabotage, but there is very good control work. We can do what we can to coordinate the different etats that work on this, and we follow that it goes from the criminal trail to the fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2240	The interpellant addresses an extremely important topic, on illegal cabotage operations and other transport crime. Developments over time have gone in the wrong direction in terms of pay and working conditions for workers in the sector. Competition conditions for serious enterprises and road safety on Norwegian roads are weakened by this. The Labour Party has repeatedly made its own proposals for measures for safer transport on Norwegian roads, including: requirements for foreign tour operators, increased control activities and electronic consignment note, which have now been adopted. After all, the Progress Party has had the Minister of Transport for nearly seven years. Recently, Stortinget adopted a long-term amendment to the law that gives the authorities the right to withhold vehicles that violate Norwegian law, including a breach of cabotage rules. This is pretty important. The Labour Party also believes that the number of cabotage operations should be reduced and that we need international cooperation in order to achieve a more serious transport sector. The new EU rules on road traffic, the mobility package, which was actually adopted in July 2020 in the EU, offer good hope that illegalities can be halted across borders. The new rules include, inter alia: the driver shall return home every four weeks and the vehicle shall return home every eight weeks. Undertakings shall pay for the driver’s accommodation when the driver is required to carry out a weekly rest period outside the vehicle. The rules for mailbox companies are being tightened up. Today’s cabotage rules are tightened by the introduction of a four-day quarantine period for non-resident vehicles used in cabotage operations. The enforcement powers of the authorities will be extended. We hope and expect that these changes will soon be incorporated into our law. The most important thing is that unprofessional actors are stopped, and then the control must be good enough. It is not just a matter of legislative change; there is a need for coordination between the various public authorities. There is no doubt that the government’s debureaucratic reform has contributed negatively by reducing the supervision and coordination of the Labour Inspectorate and the State Road Administration. The working party has proposed additional funds for increased control each financial year. We now see an improvement in that it is provided with extra funds. There is a major lack in Norway of drivers for both heavy and bus transport. That is why we must also systematically work for a more serious transport industry with Norwegian pay and working conditions. We have to take responsibility for the ordering of goods, we have to coordinate the resources, and not least we have to have a cooperation that goes beyond our borders. We have to have zero tolerance for social dumping. All of this requires increased resources to control our borders and elsewhere around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2259	Work on illegal cabotage is continuous work. This is something that goes on from day to day, and we need to constantly improve. Governments have largely explained what has been done and the work in progress. I think there is reason to be satisfied that, at least, there has been better cooperation between the various departments – the State Road Service, the Labour Inspectorate, the tax administration, the customs office and the police. There is a good basis for better and more effective controls. Although there is an increase in the number of controls and more money has been allocated to it in recent years, it's just not just the amount of money we spend on this, and the number of controls that are crucial, it's also how the controls are carried out, namely through better cooperation. A better digital control tool has given us more effective controls, and it is easier to detect breaches of legislation. Transport is an international industry. Very much of this transport is cross-border, at least what can be done about cabotage and illegal cabotage. That's why you're dependent on very close and good international cooperation. We have seen that in the work on the Road Alliance, which has actually gone on in a good way with former state councils and current state councils. We see that the work is useful. When we see what comes out of the mobility package from the EU, we see that good cooperation within the EU has worked well, and that Norwegians have been a driving force not to further liberalise it, but rather to tighten it up. I believe this is going in the right direction to ensure that we do not liberalise the legislation on cabotage and illegal cabotage. With regard to the question that the interpellant is raising, about whether there should be transport police, I think the most important thing from our point of view is that we have now achieved better cooperation between the departments, which help to ensure that we get effective controls and are exposed to illegalities in the industry. That might be the best tool we have. In this way, I do not feel that there is a very great need to establish a separate transport policy, but rather that we continue to strengthen the cooperation between the agencies and ensure that they work well together in the fight against crime in the transport sector. So interpellant raises interesting questions about fees and fines, and whether there may be a more appropriate instrument in some contexts. I think we can establish that it is. Economic sanctions are very often an effective tool. The more we can use it, the better I think it will be. Strict and high fines, I think, are a good tool to contribute to a preventative effect on those who are trying to commit crimes. The Council of State referred to detention rights, lock the wheel and the possibility of using strict responses in this respect, and I believe that these are effective instruments that give good effect. I have to say, I support very much of the intention in the interpellant, simply because I believe that what is at the root of what is being done in terms of transport police is actually largely solved through better cooperation. I think it's two sides of the same thing, in a way. You get a lot of the same thing, that we're going to find out more crimes. In terms of stricter penalties and fines, I believe that is something we need to constantly assess in the future. I think it is at least effective and preventative of those who are trying to commit crimes in the transport sector. The interpellant has a lot of good points. Transport policy is not enough for our part to go in for the time being. We are in favour of continued good cooperation between transport modes. At the same time, I think the intentions of this are pretty similar, and we achieve very much the same through the cooperation that is now established.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2281	First, I have to go back to the Workers' Party – when you start talking about the snow that fell last year, or many years ago. I remember discussing a lot of what we were going to do, and cabotage problems, and one of the first things we did when we got into government was that we started strengthening the controls, and we made sure we got the wheel locks in place. We have also taken several other steps that have been important precisely to address this with illegal transport in Norway. I very much agree that cooperation has improved, and that is very good, but I feel that you could be even more clearly politically on who has the overall responsibility, and that there were some who had the overall responsibility. That's something from the background and that I think a little bit about traffic police, that it provides an opportunity for even more coordinated management. Now each department's own agency is responsible for parts of this. We see that a very good job is done from many different sources, but that it fails just lately, when you have to follow up, that it has some consequences, and that it is expensive for someone who is doing illegal and unprofessional. The second thing I think is one of the challenges, is the limits and the way to think about who runs into Norway, because it's also about taxes and taxes and VAT, etc., which makes the unprofessional get even better framework conditions than those who run seriously and fairly, who want to do this in a good and correct way, and who follow the rules. Then, of course, I'm like Frp-is always very impatient, I think it's a little late. This with fees instead of criminal sanctions, I believe I have taken too much time. I think it should get in even faster, because it will do something in this industry, and it will make sure to clean up some of the unprofessional actors. I fully agree with what the Council of State says, of course, that serious infringements still have to be prosecuted, but I think you could have opened up a lot of unprofessional in the transport industry by making sure that it starts to cost a lot of money to operate unprofessionally and not follow up legislation and legislation. Of course, we are also impatient about the new legislation, the Mobility Directive. It can be exciting; I think it'll be a lot of good things there. I am absolutely convinced that this will not be the last time we discuss this important topic in this committee. As I said, I think it is important to put in place an overall system to control who is going into Norway, and that those who are going into Norway, also pay the taxes and charges they will have to pay, in order to bring about a level playing field with the Norwegian transport industry, which is struggling and seeing that it is becoming increasingly difficult to compete with the unprofessional operators. We have seen that some foreign companies are now buying several thousand cars to compete, and many of them will compete in Norway, in an unprofessional way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2298	I would like to thank you for a good debate. I thought that the representatives of Leirtrø and the place raised some perspectives that are important here. The clay trough pointed to this with social dumping, which is lying there. I would like to say that there is a reason for our thinking attached to this. So the interpellant pointed to something very important in its final installment: the international cooperation here. I didn't say much about that in my answer, but we're concerned that we can't work here only nationally, we're also forced to work internationally, because this is an international problem. There's reason for that. He also pointed to the work that the EU is now doing, and we are through the Road Alliance coordinated in the work that we are doing, precisely to ensure our impact here. The paradox here is that this is a tax issue, which goes on charges, and which makes it absolutely necessary to have the tax rate in it. This is also police work, because what goes on in illegal cabotage is illegal activity. Of course, even those who work in the road sector, such as the State Road Service, must be in here. It makes it hard not to have a coordination, that's why we follow that up as well. The State Road Service has informed that the cross-border cooperation established in the field of road transport is now operational. One of them is in progress. to develop common control guides for all etathans. But the last year has been special in every way, and because of covid-19, only one cooperation check was carried out in 2020. Our expectation is natural enough that there will be a lot more in 2021. This has been addressed, and there will be a focus on just social dumping, cabotage, heavy transport and the van segment. So I feel that we're doing well, and, as I said, we follow up what the Storting asked us to do when it comes to digital shipping, but it's important that when we bring it, it has to work from day one. That's why there's a lot of work on those leads, but we have a full focus on following up what the Storting has asked of us, because we think it might be a positive improvement. In summary, I would like to say that there is a lot of good going on in the inspection work, and we're following up on the fee, that is, not just the penalty chain that's being followed up here. It's a coordination that's getting better and better, and I think it's right that a lot of staff are involved in this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2311	No more people have asked for the word to cause no. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2329	Norway has one of the best organised, well-functioning labour-environment laws, cooperation and mutual respect between the social partners, no matter what country we compare with – fortunately – and an unparalleled team with the social partners needs to rehabilitate, transform and further develop. Tripartite cooperation is a pillar of freedom, security and seniority in the Norwegian working life. The Norwegian model of small differences, equivalency and close cooperation is not only important for us all to be able to live free, independent lives, but also one of the most important competitive interests of Norwegian industry and business. The value of everyone’s hearing can be involved in the development of their own work, their own business, their own product and their solutions are invaluable for both psychosocial and value creation. The left is pleased to have a robust work environment law and robust regulation in Norway, which we have not least seen the value of now under the coronary crisis, where, as a society and community at large, we have the ability to turn around and give most security, even in a pervasive crisis. Me and Left are also very pleased that there is a cross-political agreement on the large lines on the work environment. In fact, I am so bold to claim, after having the seat of the social committee here on the house – not a whole period of size, but a period – that most of the inconvenience in the field is more or less designed because different parties and interests have an interest in just cultivating and creating the impression that the conflicts are far greater than they are. In other words, we have every right to modernise and adapt the work environment legislation, in line with the needs of both workers, employers and society. In a day-to-day environment characterised by digitisation, increased flexibility requirements, either because of the nature of the work or the need for workers to work with them, it is reasonable that the legislation needs to be adapted and amended. For the Left, it is essential that workers should have the same safety as for the working environment, rights and frameworks as for the ‘old’ working day, where the work was mainly done in local employers at any time. At the same time, we see employers who may also need some greater flexibility in defining normal working days, evening work and what needs to be done at the workplace. They also need an indication of obligations and rights of e.g.: the nature of privacy. There may also be a need to look at simplifications and changes that facilitate a more flexible working life, and there may be good reasons to look at the working time decisions that are currently in force, so that it becomes better and more flexible for employees. Work environment laws and other legislation are not enough to adapt a new working day either in a short-term or long-term perspective, with increased use of home offices and greater flexibility when the work is done. The ‘new employment’ did not come with the coronary crisis, but it has been further updated by it, not least when it relates to the size of home office use. More people claim, probably rightly, that the crisis will lead to lasting changes in work patterns, faster than otherwise. Fortunately, it seems that many people enjoy working from home, but with today's situation, the home office is also a solution for many people. Nor does the legislation distinguish between the required home office or voluntary agreed home office. The situation we are in is quite new and temporary, but for the future it is important that we establish a code that differentiates its contents according to whether the home office system is imposed or not. For the Left, it is important that in a normal situation, homework must be based on real volunteering from the added side, and the general rule must be that everyone has access to work in local for the enterprise if they want it. In a working day where a change of office and work from home, we also believe that employers must ensure that they add the necessary tools and infrastructure to do their job. Studies show that two out of ten workers under the Koronacrisa have not been covered by any new infrastructure. Therefore, it may be advisable to provide an overarching regulation on this in the law, although much naturally and still should be agreed locally between the parties. Trustees have an important role to play in caring for their colleagues. They are the link between employees and employers in many cases, and many also act as an important social glue in the organisation in which they work. The role of the trustee in contributing to good home office solutions should be considered to be highlighted in the legislation in the future. The psychosocial work environment is naturally also affected by work elsewhere than in the workplace. Some people feel more lonely, some report mental distress, and over 60 pst. difficulty separating work and leisure while in a home office. It shows that when a user has a home office, rental becomes extremely important, but it is also such that today’s legislation does not include the psychosocial work environment in the home offices to some extent. It is covered by the work environment approach in the legislation, but it may be useful to highlight it and to provide more direct guidance. Finally – and initially – I would like to give the government and the Council of State credit for notifying them that changes in the home office premises will be heard. Nevertheless, I believe it is important to be clear that it is not enough. The new working day requires a holistic review of a number of rules in addition to this, and I hope that the government will also look into it. In view of that, I would like to ask the Council of State briefly: what action will the Council of State take to meet the challenges of the new working day that so many people experience?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2357	In line with the nature of the interpellation debate, although the question was finally short and good, I will not answer briefly and well. I also have 10 minutes at my disposal, so I want to stay around the question. Just first one thing that's good to have in mind when we talk about the new working life, and that's that although many people have home offices, it's still just an opportunity for a little over approx. 50 pst. by Norwegian workers. So many people don't have the opportunity to have a home office, and it's fewer than those who have it today, who probably have it as – what to say – a natural part of their working life. In another context, we could spend a little time musing about the days when the home office sounded provocative, as it was a nice way to work in a slightly different way. Now there's something that should be done as much as possible. At the same time, it is worth saying that the coronary apathy has shown both some of the best in the Norwegian working life model and why the Norwegian working life model works. Among other things, we have had very close and close contact at national level with the social organisations. In the enterprises, employees and employers have turned around and managed to carry out tasks that I believe, if we rewind a year back, many were in doubt that it was possible to carry out under heavily changed conditions. Then we are still in an exceptional situation where the concern for infectious diseases leads to many having to do work differently from normal, both those who have to go to work, and those who have to go to work, but from home offices. The labour market frameworks in Norway are defined by law and by means of the Agreement between the Parties. The system is designed to combine the protection of workers with the possibility of agreeing flexible solutions. An example is the regulation of working time, which is built up with some normal rules in the law, but with the possibility of agreeing exceptions. Agreements with trade unions typically provide opportunities for increased working hours during periods. It is a typical system for what we can call the Nordic model, with different national variants, but which together provides – or at least should provide – a balance between flexibility, flexibility and security. Now I'm not going to dwell on the changes that have occurred since 2013, but it is, as the interpellant also says, an important point for this government that we are going to have an up-to-date and modern working environment law. This means that the Working Environment Act is not like the ten commandments, which came on stoneboards. The Labour Environment Act is a law in which the basic concern for the safety and safety of workers must be discussed and sought at all times, but also the need for flexibility. An example of such a small modernisation is the possibility that employees can now take the initiative in concluding written agreements to carry out work between 21 and 23. Some of these things are, in practice, just an update to the new world of work as it is. It is worth remembering that protection that only exists on paper, but does not correspond — i.e. the rules do not correspond to the reality — often provide less protection in practice. The Government's aim is to build on the combination of protection and flexibility of the Norwegian work-life model. In the Corona era, many people have needed to use other schemes. It applies to where and when it is worked. The NHO Membership Survey shows that 63 pst. of the enterprises used home office solutions. YS Working life barometer shows that 40 pst. by the employees covered by them have been entrusted with a home office. A number of agreements have therefore been concluded between the social partners on working time arrangements. My main impression is that our work-life model has worked well in the face of a crisis like the one we are now facing. This applies to a separate regulation on work in the worker's own home which states that the Labour Environment Act applies, but with details and some exceptions. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, in dialogue with the main social organisations, has looked at the need to update this regulation. It was introduced in 2002, and I agree with the interpellant that a lot has changed since then, not least on the technology side. The process has come so far that a consultation note with proposals for short-term regulatory adjustments will be sent. So this is the short term work. But there's also a need to look at this more long-term. Then we have to have a systematic and well-processed knowledge base that also says something about the experience of the Koron era, and about what is the need for what might become a new normal in the future. The Ministry has initiated such work. OsloMet shall identify the scope, trends and consequences of home offices and other remote work, with an interim summer report and a final year report. In the summer, the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work will present a review of findings from research into the working environment and health for home offices. The ability to modernise and adapt legislation is best achieved through a step-by-step approach, where we also have time to have dialogue with the social organisations. We don't have to repair what works, but as the interpellant was in, there may be areas where there is a need to clarify or modify the legislation. A more flexible organisation of the work situation is expected to become common even after the corona, and it may require that what is expected from the employer and the employee, respectively, is clarified. But there are some things that have to stand firm. It shall be a written contract of employment with a description of central matters such as working time and remuneration. In the case of home work, there should also be a separate written agreement between the employee and the employer according to today's regulations. This provides a good basis for the employee and the employer to clarify the framework between them. A more comprehensive review of the legislation on different forms of distance work may be relevant after we have gathered more knowledge and experience. There will be a completely different situation when you go from forced home to design future forms of work as individual businesses and employees themselves wish. Public challenges in today's situation are the absence of physical meeting places and the social glue in many workplaces. There may also be a risk that work environment issues will be individualised instead of dealing with the work being done jointly. The present situation does not allow businesses to explore good solutions in these areas. I share the inter-pellant's view that future regulations of the labour market must also balance security and flexibility. Let me conclude with two considerations regarding what kind of legislation. If we are to adjust or amend legislation, not just these short-term adjustments, or the adjustments that are to come, but if we are to do something about the regulation in the long term, it is positive, the government believes, with flexibility. But it is not positive if it is never possible in practice to draw a distinction between work and leisure. The fact that very many workers now have the opportunity to take the job home does not mean that all working time regulations and this are abolished for that reason, but in practice it may feel that way to many. Having flexibility to work in the evening because you want to go a little earlier to bring up the children is very good, but in practice living in a working day where the employee is expected to be or is available to the employer, although that is not the way the rules are, is not good. In working life, a clear distinction must be drawn between leisure and work. Let me do another example. The possibility of using home offices is obviously positive if you have a chance to do so, but the representative Breivik is concerned about something that is also important. It may be that an enterprise wants to save money in its home office. Is it necessary to have a code that says that it is entirely right that you have in practice a home office for all the employees, so that you can save a lot of money in office rooms? There is an important limit to going up, and I just want to signal now, before others come to, that I think we should have a code that makes it quite clear that you can neither use home offices as a regular zone nor as a savings measure to save money in the business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2387	Thank you to the Council for a good, positive and forward-looking answer. I am also very happy to hear that the main impression of the Council of State is that, to call it that, the Institute of Working Environment has been as well in a crisis situation as it is now in the middle of it. Of course, I and the Left agree that when we look at the legislation related to the new working day, it must be through a broad approach and, of course, based on knowledge and dialogue. Nevertheless, according to my poor understanding there are some areas we can and should do something reasonably quickly. There are, for example: several examples of tax regimes that should be passed through. Published in this way is the cost people can now get with home office solutions. If employers do not cover home office equipment and employees themselves purchase it, the expenditure will naturally go into the minimum overall deduction we all enjoy in the personal tax revenue. The minimum deduction is today for a total of NOK 106 750, which in isolation is very good. But if one person has actual costs let's say $50,000 in connection with home office solution, and another one ends up with $0 because regarding everything maybe has a room in the house that has necessary and good enough equipment, they have to pay the same tax today. Instead, one might think that we're introducing a simple alternative solution, one of which is an example. may choose between the current minimum deduction of button NOK 107 000 and a lower tax deduction, e.g. 90000 kroner, plus the actual costs of the home office, and then the right to deduct actual costs will be much more effective, without going beyond an already simple, reasonable and unbureaucratic system for individual employees and taxpayers. I also believe that there is a need for legislation to link to professional damage and insurance to be updated reasonably quickly. Today, there is a coverage in the workplace, while the potential for increased mobility, more home offices and others is not covered. There are also examples of legislation that needs to be clarified to ensure that insurance is covered by insurance regardless of where the work is done. Both taxes and insurance are two areas that are enough to do, and we might need to do something reasonably fast, without so much more knowledge of the actual things.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2400	There are many areas. Once again, you have to separate slightly from what is necessary and important to clarify now. We've already done some clarifications, e.g. related to interpretations of the Professional Injury Code. But let's raise our eyes a little bit and see what kind of legislation we need in a working life where home offices become more common. The interpellant mentions something, but it's e.g. also issues of working time. Today, there are more favourable rules — if favourable, perhaps depending on how you view them — by working more and more at home than you can if you are at work. It probably gives rise to a thought that being in a home office was almost a good thing, and it was at least a very small part of Norwegian working life that could actually do it. Let's see where home offices might even become an institutionalized part of the workplace: it's an exciting proposal that's being discussed now, if we can imagine a much more decentralised employment policy in the state. I think it's an exciting way to think about it. It may not be that employees in all departments can live throughout the country, but that it may also be possible for longer periods to be employed in a government agency in Trondheim, Bergen or Oslo, but spend much of the time in their home municipality, it is Porsgrund, Målselv or Karasjok, demanding a completely different way of thinking about home offices than before. At the same time, I am very concerned to stress that we do not need to create a home office code that falls into the opposite ditch, and I think the interpellant agrees with that. The fact that the employer has the right to ask you to go to work physically, but also that you have the right to come to work, I think is a very important point. Not least I think many, having now experienced forced home offices for a long time, are happy to come physically to the office, with open canteen, coffee chat, wine lottery and what it should be – or cakelottery, then, to be a little more correct!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2409	First, I want to thank the interpellant for addressing a topic that is topical, and it looks like it's still going to be a period of time, as the covid-19 situation evolves. For the Workers' Party, the security of work and safety is essential. The current situation has made it apparent that there are security challenges both for work and for work. I must say that I do not fully agree with Mr Breivik's statement that there is a great deal of agreement on the Working Environment Act in this Chamber. I remember that in 2015, there were 1.5 million workers who were strikes for the changes proposed in the Working Environment Act, and there is still much that can be done in the Working Environment Act – strengthening preference, reducing the use of temporary workers and hiring. There was a majority to cancel the zero-hour contracts, but collective redress has been removed. There are other issues that should be covered by the Working Environment Act. But for home offices, it's very good with home offices. Many of us have had better time, and we burden the environment less because we travel less. A lot of this is good, but there are certainly many challenges associated with the situation many encounters with home offices. Clearly, if you live in a large apartment or in a large house where you can sit at each end of the house and have a home office, the matter is quite different than if you live in a small apartment in Oslo and have four to five kids in home school. That's probably the challenge a lot bigger. It's also challenging for those who stay sitting very much alone. Psychiatric challenges we see that many meet after being isolated both at home offices and elsewhere. And I think many of us who have gradually had to use a little bit of different forms of home offices, also notice that the physical stress can be something big. It is not all in the home office that we are used to in the office. One of the most important things about the work environment law is that we have a good control function for this, but it's hard to control how things are at home offices, as they are today. We have a government that, a few years ago, went to the elections to have a great executive power. We have a regulation from 2002. In several contexts, employee organisations have addressed the need to update that regulation because there are so many in the home office. More, including the Council of State, have been in some of the challenges. Working time which slips into leisure time, work equipment and technical solutions, how to ensure that health, environment and safety are adequately cared for in the home office, and accident and tax rules are among those that have been addressed. But now this pandemic has been a whole year. Many of us have been in the home office for almost a whole year, and still one has come no further than a warning that one will now consider submitting something at the hearing. At least that might not be what I think of as an implementing force. But it's good that something happens. We believe it is absolutely essential that when you are going to update that regulation now, what is the basis of the Norwegian model is based on the fact that the employees' and employers' organisations are very close to that work, because it is only in that way that you can find good solutions that serve both employers and employees. The representative Breivik and others here have been involved in occupational injury. Today, early on, we presented a proposal for a representative on occupational injury. And eight years ago, there was a case in Stortinget about occupational injury – a new law, an up-to-date law. It was drawn by the government of Solberg. And that's what's happened to professional damage in this eight-year period. Had that law been in place, it might have been much better.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2426	Let me also start by thanking Mr Breivik for bringing up a topical issue for debate. This gives us an opportunity to look at the need to make changes to the Working Environment Act in order to adapt it to a new working day. Because that's the way the representative Aasrud was in, that the last time we made changes to the Working Environment Act, in 2015, the Workers' Party voted against this, and the LO took out a general strike. So it turns out that since then there has actually been no increase in the number of temporary staff, and that we made it easier to introduce long shifts in turn, has led to more full time. In 2017, I think it was the Vice-Chairman of the Workers' Party, Hadia Tajik, who took TV 2 to a nursing home in Arendal to show that in Arbeiderparti-steered municipalities more people were able to convert from part-time to full-time. It turned out in the report that they were precisely justifying this with the introduction of long-term guards, which led to more full-time and safer residents who were unable to deal with many in turn shifts. Right-policy is working! Having said that, I think it's a little too early to say that we have had a lasting change in working life, and therefore whether an exceptional state should be the basis for new changes in the Working Environment Act. I hope that we will see lasting changes, which give both workers and employers more flexibility to organise their daily lives, which may also give a lower climate impact due to reduced commuting and long-haul trips for meetings, and perhaps increased opportunities to live where you want, and still have the opportunity to take a job far away. Some people find it threatening that where you want to live, Oslo is actually, and that Oslo people can now start applying for jobs elsewhere in the country, even though the purpose of that proposal might be the opposite. But we have also seen that what was previously seen as a privilege for the few, namely having a home office, has become quite a bit of a burden for some. Because I think having home school and closed kindergartens will contribute to a greater burden on home offices than many see. Working from home can be a demanding exercise, and we now see that people are missing their community and their jobs. So I hope we'll see lasting changes that take into account the best from what we've learned under the pandemic. But let me refer to some dilemmas. First of all, as also Aasrud was inside, not all who have room to put expensive square meters in their own home or furniture to create a good job. Secondly, the employer has a significant responsibility for the organisation of prevention, among other things. disease, where, in particular, musculoskeletal disorders are now leading to a high level of sick leave, which in turn can lead to retirement from work. But the last one is also relieved when it comes to home offices. Maybe we should take a look at that? Where are the limits of the employer’s ability to organize in my home and also the opportunity to follow me up? As big-time representatives, I think we all feel the fluid transition between private life and leisure time and working time, but fortunately we are except for the Working Environment Act, which makes working days a little easier. But this too can be burdensome for many. Then there are many things that we can neither regulate nor should regulate. Even if we're really trying, the work environment law can't guarantee good leadership. We can only try to limit the effects of bad. We have examples from both private and public enterprises that through good leadership have halved sick leave with the same work environment law and sick pay as other businesses, which require changes in both to cope with the same. A more distributed way of working will also require more of the managers. Motivating employees, building up common goals and a corporate culture is more demanding when employees do not meet. They may get efficiency, but they probably lose something on the road that needs to be replaced in other ways. It should also be said that many, especially new businesses and business start-ups, are already working in this way, from either office communities, cafes or home offices. So when politicians finally discover that it is a new working day, it is in many ways not new. But there is no shortage of technology and opportunities for home offices, so Google still chooses to collect 2,800 employees at Googleplex outside San Francisco. Then we have to remember that the Work Environment Act is primarily a protection law to protect employees' rights. I believe this is in the employer's interest. We all serve a decent and tidy working life. Not least, I have great faith that it is profitable for workers who are well-being and well-being at work. At the same time, the Labour Environment Act needs to be flexible enough to address business needs, which is also demanding. One woman's flexibility is another woman's coercion. There are differences between an enterprise with tour users, self-employed, industrial workers with heavy lifting and system developers in the IT industry. The working life of the future may need a more modern regulatory framework, but it still needs to take care of today's workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2454	First, I would like to thank Mr Breivik for the opportunity to discuss an important theme of working life. As many people have experienced, the Labour Environment Act is the Labour Protection Act. It applies to employees and not to maritime operators. And now when many people use home offices, we are in a situation that in many ways approaches the situation of the seafaring traders, that one has a great degree of freedom in terms of how one puts up the work. That freedom is important, it is positive – a drop in travel time, an ever-increasing use of time and money for travel, as many experience. At the same time, there may be demands for increased results from the employer. It is therefore important to keep track of people’s situation – the balance between working life and family life. The centre party sees home office facilities as positive and, as many people have been involved, there are great opportunities to decentralize office jobs here. We've never had a larger amount of office work than we have today, and when we know the possibilities of technology, we see clearly that here are the opportunities to decentralize, instead of what has been the norm, that is to centralize. The Working Environment Act must always be an up-to-date law, while at the same time maintaining strict employment requirements. In the case of permanent employment, what does it mean, when a person can use temporary employment — and working time provisions. The Labour Environment Act is a balance between the interests of employers and employees, and we must never forget that, in general, the employee is the weakest party. It is the employee who has had the main motive for having a strong labour-environment law, seams if we also have a Norwegian tradition where the employer has also seen the labour-environment law because it has given clean and reliable forms of cooperation. The Norwegian model is based on legislation – the Labour Environment Act – and a strong trade union organisation, a strong trade union organisation with responsible parties. And you know, you know, what skilled business managers and skilled professionals can get together when that cooperation works well, what results one then gets. This is what we see when we are around the workplace today, as a very strong force for Norway. Strong trade unions make good collective agreements, and collective agreements play a very important role. The collective agreements are norms for wage and working conditions in the industry, regardless of whether other enterprises are organised or not, and there is a very important strength in Norwegian employment. Home Office, what does that mean? Well, that means you get what I'd call trust-based management. This means that the manager of the enterprise must have confidence in his employees, who have their office at home. This is very demanding to regulate. It is clear that we need to keep track of the situation with regard to home offices, and at the same time constantly make sure that those who have home offices also see the need to be professionally organized, searing if one does not have a job among the many, but perhaps completely or partly have a job at home. Therefore, I would like to say that professional organisations now need to ensure and monitor closely the development of home offices, and continuously follow up and look at the need for updates in the different industries. As a conclusion, I would say that instead of having the main focus here on the Working Environment Act, I think it is right to have the main focus on tariff agreements. It is through the tariff agreements that one can get it tailored to each industry, and it is through the tariff agreements that one can get the best continuous adjustment of the situation in order to safeguard the important interests of both parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2473	Tomorrow it is a one-year mark that very many people in this country were sent to the home office. The way we experience home offices today is very different from how we experienced it a year ago. Then I think many people appreciate that we got a shorter journey, that maybe it was just getting up from the kitchen table and sitting on another chair in the home. A more effective meeting was held in front of a long one, and a number indicate that many people would like to go to the home office. It's a good thing for someone. Then, as the representative Breivik takes up in the interpellation, so that one wants more flexibility, and flexibility is an essential word when we discuss the work environment law and the difference on the right and left sides of Norwegian policy. Because when the left starts to talk about flexibility, I get nervous, and I think a lot of people in LO are also hosts. For the question is, Who should this be flexible for? Should it be flexible for the boss, or should it be flexible for the boss? Some of what I think in the last year has shown us is that we need tighter wording in the work environment law that protects those added to the home office. The simple reason is that people need time off. When eight hours worked, there was a reality in Norway, talking about eight hours of work, eight hours of leisure time, and eight hours of sleep. It's important to protect it. It's important to protect people from having eight hours off. Because there is a danger that the distinction between work and leisure becomes clear, that it will be easy to send an email or take a phone when the work is over, and ask: Can’t you just do this? But you can't. It's a good thing for us that Norway's working hours are regulated. So to some of the things that I'm thinking the interpellant can contribute, and that's that one gets a debate on how to deal better with the HMS. That's the responsibility of the employer. Some employers have taken that responsibility through the pandemic. Sorry, some people don't have it. This has led to some health challenges. Even a representative from the Right, we could read about TV2, got a nude prolapse as a result of a lot of home offices. That representative is not alone. There is actually one in four of those who have a home office, who report that they have had back and neck pain in the last year, and that is because one has worked without the right means. Nor should we underestimate the fact that very many people lack access to a job, and a lack of social skills. Some of the things that have bothered me are those who have the job as one of the few places they meet people, a place where they get more social stimulation than one gets when one is completely alone at home. Unfortunately, there are too many of them. Yes, some of the people who can do it will probably have more home offices in the future, but the fact that the social meeting points that work gives are important is when you look at how the work environment laws can be enforced in a way that makes people who have home offices, also have leisure time, and that not all time at home is work. The last thing I want to say is that the work environment law is extremely important and needs to be defended, and it is something that we will certainly be working on in the future because of what we have experienced and experienced in the last year with pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2488	Thank you to the Council of State for wise, secure answers and reasoning. Thanks also to the other participants in the debate. The debate, for my summary, has shown to the full that we are fortunately quite cross-political in terms of the basic values of the Institute for the Environment at Work - the safety of the individual worker, the balance between employers and employees, the fences for the preparation of tripartite cooperation and the Norwegian model, the culture of dialogue and cooperation - and that the changes that should and should be made must, of course, be made, and, therefore, we must strive both to push us and to tread a little more slowly, at the same time. We need not least to work together to secure a society with freedom and opportunities for all, including in a new working day. Finally, if I can be allowed a page run as small as ever: it seems a little strange to interpellation and to be called an interpellant when we have good Norwegian words like ‘request’ and ‘requestor’. But we have to debate that in a different context.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2497	Thank you very much for the ‘demander’ — the interpellant. I really feel that we've got the most covered now, so I don't have so much to add but again to stress that a lot has happened in the department during this coronary year, and a hearing note on changes in the regulations for home offices is about to get out. That's also a good point from what I still call the interpellant, that you don't have to use foreign words when there are adequate Norwegian synonyms.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2507	The debate on substance is closed. 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2525	In 1969 the first large Norwegian oil found in the North Sea was made. Then Phillips Petroleum Company found the one that would eventually get the name Ekofisk. It marked the beginning of the Norwegian oil adventure in which thousands of Norwegians have participated, and which has given Norway the wealth and wealth we enjoy today. The oil adventure has been positive for Norway. In 2017, 225 000 people employed directly and indirectly, and the value of the oil fund is approaching 11 000 billion. kr. However, our wealth has not come for free, and this medal also has a backside. There are many people in Norway today who have fought a year-long fight for justice after being injured. My own commitment to the case began with last year's sending me a survey report entitled "The Pioneer Oil Workers with Corrupt Health and the Meeting with the System, Replacements, Sensation Damage and Solvent Damage". The report is written by the two fires Runar Nilsen and John-Peder Denstad. I am aware that the report has been sent both to the Labour and Social Committee and to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. The report is an undefiled and direct encounter with the fate of many Norwegian pioneer oil workers and what health status they are today. I must admit that there is strong reading. There are also other professional groups that have had to fight for justice. The North Sea Divers, also known as the Pioneer Divers, who engaged in oil exploration in the North Sea between 1965 and 1989, fought a year-long fight for justice. Most of them were positive to the North Sea divers' cause, which was a claim for mutual recognition, compensation and upliftment as a result of damaged health. It was also stressed that the North Sea divers had made an important national effort, and that the wealth that followed the oil adventure had not been possible without this profession. Many would claim that Norway’s resistance to recognising its moral responsibility for the damage caused to the North Sea divers was not among Norway’s most proud moments. History will show whether we will be on the right side of history in this case of injured oil workers, the pioneer workers in the 1970s and 1980s. In addition to Nilsen and Denstad’s monitoring, there is an older, but very comprehensive report from the National Association of Working Environment Damages from 2014 that describes in detail the work carried out offshore, the lack of protective equipment, the damage suffered afterwards, and how this has been tried politically in this room earlier, unfortunately without luck. A.L.F.'s report describes how to wear normal cotton dress and cotton gloves, and that oil-coated workwear was hung up in six-man slumbers. Work was typically exposed to three types of exposure: chemical uptake by dermal exposure inhalation with benzene compounds exposure to mercury Many of those who started working in oil in the 1970s were young seafarers or they worked in the mainland industry. I'm going to quote from a story in the report of a young man who had recently started oil in the 1970s: «On Temporary we lived 4 men on each cabin. We didn't have a storage cabinet so everything of work clothes like dresses, protective shoes and wet socks, everything soaked in oil hung to dry over a furnace on the wall. It stinks in there." On the subject of work, we are told: «There was a lot of change of gaskets on the piping system. When you split the pipes, there was always gas that you had around and breathed in. Here it was always measured for concentration, but only in view of the explosion risk. In some cases there was so much gas that we were told that we were far above the explosion hazard." The stories are many more, and I should have told them all, because both the surviving pioneer workers and those who have gone away deserve their stories to be heard. Symptoms and health problems often crawled a few years later, and subsequently As the damage got stronger, it went beyond the work and they told the company, they were put ashore. Many thought that they would be sick only for a few weeks, and that they would soon be out again. The few knew that that helicopter trip back to shore would be their last helicopter trip to land. After landing, they experienced ‘loss of licence’, which means that their offshore certificate is no longer approved. They did not get their old employer to speak and were referred to hospitals and healthcare. The initial symptoms were usually fatigue, concentration problems, sleep problems, memory loss, rash, fluid ulcers, headaches, late motor skills and other. That was the symptoms they first discovered. Some may be authorised to cause occupational injury. Some of them get some compensation, but some have to sign a contract that they never have to talk about the amount of some, so-called taushets contracts. We understand why. It's for the oil company not to pay anyone. They buy themselves into silence. The damage is left to itself. They feel like they're meeting a system that doesn't work and they're not being believed. Some people are even referred to psychiatry, as if there was something psychologically wrong with those who tell their stories. In the last few months, I have visited several of the damaged pioneer oil workers, spent weekends, evenings and some long working days preparing this debate today. As a big representative, I meet individual chefs and stories that make impressions, and as I have become well acquainted with some of the firemen behind this work, like Jan Terje Biktjørn, who has worked successfully on this matter for years, and the others hurt, I am not in any doubt in my mind that their stories are correct. But I knew there's no one else who's going to bring these stories to the square. As a magnificent representative, it is my duty to speak the little man's case. Someone's tried it in the courtroom. One has even run the case to the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. But the outcome is often given when sick people meet the billions group with sharp-minded lawyers who have everything to lose on doing what is right. But our task in this hall is not to assess the law in each case, but to assess the morality. And I think most people agree that we should have a protection for those who are injured and that we should take care of our own. I believe that we cannot leave the surviving pioneer oil workers to ourselves. I want a commission to be set up that can review all aspects of the matter, get to the bottom of the matter once and for all – a commission that has legitimacy, including among the survivors, among the pioneer oil workers, where they themselves are represented, who are not afraid to ask unpleasant questions and get to the bottom of the matter. I hope the council takes the ball and shows that it is possible to set a point for this matter once and for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2587	First, I would like to say a thousand thanks to the interpellant for an important interpellant. The interpellation starts with something worth repeating, namely that Norwegian oil wealth has not come for free. We have a lot to thank for the oil wealth we have today, and not least for the enormous technology and expertise that lies in the Norwegian offshore. I'm going to start a little bit wide here, and I'm going to think about it very concretely afterwards. Working conditions in Norway generally maintain high international standards. Most Norwegian workers are in good health and well-being at work, but this also does not mean that the working environment is risk-free or that workers are not exposed to health and safety at work. Chemicals are available in many workplaces. In addition, it also follows here that too many of these rules have changed. That is, things we tolerated, it's pollution, risk and exposure to hazardous materials, have also changed over the years. Health risks associated with, inter alia: chemicals depend on their properties and duration of exposure. What is clear is that in some cases — yes, in many cases — health damage can only occur after a long time. For example, calculations carried out on the basis of international figures show: the annual occurrence of 3000 new cases of labour-related coal in Norway and the death of about 200 people each year. In addition, approximately 10-15 pst. of the cases of asthma occurring in adulthood are attributed to the relationship of work. In other words, the prevention of health damage caused by the chemical work environment must be high on the agenda. It is equally important to ensure that workers who experience injury at work receive the follow-up they are entitled to, from employers and from the authorities. Exposures to harmful chemicals and products have occurred and occur in different professions and industries, including: in the oil industry, which is the theme of this interpellation. But equally for all of these, it is the responsibility of the employer to ensure that the working environment is fully sound and provides security against physical and psychological adverse effects. Under the Employment Insurers Act, employers are also obliged to take out insurance for their employees against occupational injury and diseases. The Occupational Insurers Act is managed by the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The task of the authorities is to monitor the systematic working of employers in the prevention of HMS. Authorities shall also contribute to a good welfare and health follow-up when some are ill or injured by the job. There, Nav has special occupational harm benefits through popular security. Work environment and health authorities also contribute to specialist investigations to investigate health damage and their relationship with work, and there is an important basis for assessing whether a disease or injury in the individual case is caused by exposure at work. Like the members of the Labour and Social Committee, I have received the report from the National Association of Working Environment Damage. That's a lot of reading. And there is no reason to doubt that several former oil workers may have had their health damaged because of conditions in the working environment. We know that the working environment, especially in the early Norwegian petroleum industry, could be tough, and by tough I don't mean good, but tough – but also sometimes irresponsible. It's also a reminder in these days, when we've got a new national audit report on the Alexander Kielland accident, although it's a different matter. Some oil workers also feel that they do not receive the follow-up they are entitled to and deserve. It is a problem we have been familiar with, with which the authorities have been familiar, and which have also been followed up for many years. The issue of chemical exposure in the oil industry and the follow-up of former oil workers has been on the agenda for many years, including in Stortinget. Oil workers with serious health problems and diseases demanded follow-up from employers and authorities at the beginning of the 2000s. The case was dealt with in detail in two major messages, in 2006 and 2011. Extensive investigation and development work was started to identify the extent of the problem and to facilitate better follow-up of oil workers who suspected that they had become ill due to the job. Among other things, it was important to be able to better document the chemicals to which oil workers had been exposed, and to what extent, what health problems they had, and how these health problems could be linked to work. It was precisely in order to obtain a better basis for assessing whether the disease and plague of oil workers were due to the work and therefore whether they should be authorised for occupational injury and, where appropriate, claim compensation under the occupational indemnity insurance scheme. It was also important to provide a basis for new and improved knowledge to prevent health damage to chemical use in the oil industry in the future. In 2006 and 2007, two thorough reports on chemical exposure and health risks in the petroleum industry were prepared in cooperation with the Petroleum Authority, the industry’s partners and the State Institute for Safety and Health at Work. Among other things, found that there was a lack of knowledge and evidence and that in many cases there was a lack of a good data base for occupational health assessments. And if you don't have a database, it has consequences for people in practice. These works were the basis for the oil industry itself, namely the chemical project from 2007 to 2011, which would give a comprehensive picture of current and historical exposure, describe and cover knowledge gaps and help the industry to better manage risks related to chemicals. The Cancer Register also launched a study on cancer among Norwegian offshore workers in 1998 and a continuation of this study is now under construction, with the support of the Norwegian Research Council. In 2008, occupational health services at national occupational health departments were strengthened, in particular in view of the increased focus on the risk of chemical health damage. Several separate reports on the results of the investigations of former offshore workers have also been prepared and these do not differ significantly from those of patients from other professions or industries. Approximately two thirds of the individual investigations by the occupational health departments in the period 2010–2019 are assessed as likely or possibly work-related. Data from Nav from 2014 and as of today also show that the occupational disease office receives many requirements for the recognition of occupational disease from offshore workers, but now most of them deal with noise-damaged hearing. With regard to chemical exposure and occupational disease today, relatively few requirements are in place and there are very different types of disease. There is no doubt that several former oil workers have experienced stress at work that may have affected their health. Many have also been compensated for the damage caused to the people’s rights. At the same time, the review also shows that the problem has been taken seriously over several years. There have been important and thorough reviews and it has been followed up for many years by the industry, the authorities and the established health and welfare system. It's a follow-up we have to keep going, and that's my first, important message today. The fact that we continue and that there is now a new cancer monitoring project, which also includes workers from after 1998, is also important for future issues. Finally, I want to link two words to the insurance scheme for occupational damage. If you read the report, you will see on page 9, under ‘Continued — What now?’, that it is primarily the occupational indemnity insurance system and the practice of this one points to as a problem. Although I understand that there may be frustration over the legal system's handling of this, the judicial system and the work of independent courts are doing what they should, namely interpreting and relying on their interpretation of the laws. At the same time, situations in which the judiciary interprets differently from what might have been the original intention behind a regulation may arise in general. In any case, a number of questions are raised about the professional indemnity insurance scheme. It is, as I said, under the Ministry of Justice and Defence and is not my constitutional responsibility, but I have today talked to Minister of Justice Monica Mæland and agreed with her that we also want to follow up this track, among other things. by obtaining and systematising the recordings that have been made, in order to see if there is a need to do something with the Act on Occupational Indemnity Insurance, inter alia. in the light of how it has been interpreted in the Norwegian judicial system. Then it is an important principle – and this is a general principle – that you as legislators and we as governments, of course, do not focus on how the judiciary interprets matters. If you think there are errors there, you have to change the law and legislation. I cannot guarantee or promise that this will lead to a change, but I have, as I said, talked to the Minister of Justice that this is something we need to look into.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2625	I would like to thank the Council of State for its contribution and for participating in this debate on the Stortinget. This is a matter that has been discussed many times before. In recent years it has not been very high on the agenda, but ten, twelve, fourteen years ago, and also longer than that, there has been a significant case. I'm going to refer to some of the articles that have been before. The daily newspaper ran a series of articles on ‘the oil nightmare’ and ‘the poison oil scandal’. In 2003, Minister of Administration Victor Norman promised to get to the bottom of the case and said, "We will not give up until we have the answer." Both the Labour Party, SV and the Advance Party promised the same thing. In 2005, Dagbladet revealed that ConocoPhillips did not follow up a shock measurement of benzene in Ekofisk, and that the oil industry trained the Cancer Registry project on the cancer hazard. In 2007, there was an article in the Daily newspaper entitled ‘The damage is really lawless’. In the same year, it was revealed that cancerous substances were found in the blood and urine of oil workers. Another headline was: ‘Presented a juxtaposition report for ConocoPhillips. The consultant admits toxic measurements that “are not possible to defend”. In 2006 the newspaper wrote, “The Storting will know why the oil workers became ill.” Other headlines were: “Full blood cancer alarm in the North Sea” and “Holds back poison information”. In 2009 Dagbladet wrote: ‘Here, mercury flows freely on the oil platform.’ I could frame a lot more, and they're shown in A.L.F.'s 2014 report. After visiting many of the oil workers, I have come to the realization that something has to be done for those who have been injured, and you have to look further on the road and do something about the law. I am pleased that the Council of State says that there is a strong reading, that he believes in the stories, and that there is a link between the work you have had and the health state afterwards – that they have been exposed and exposed to toxic substances. But what I want a slightly better answer to is what the Council of State will actually do for the oil pioneer workers, who worked there in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s, and have been injured, who are now left with a simple disability and who experience that they are not believed or heard. I also record references to the legal system. It is quite right that such things are decided there, but I know that we can politically put this matter on the agenda. We can put down a sample or a commission that looks at these issues. I hope the council takes the ball and will take a concrete assessment of these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2644	I think that a good place to start is with the short survey report that has come. There are probably some of these that have also experienced the meeting with Nav as difficult, and that they have experienced difficulties in obtaining occupational harm benefits through popular security. But that is not the main point of this report, it is not the main point. There are probably also a lot of people who have received a professional injury benefit from popularism. In this report, there are really two main traces of follow-up. One is this with knowledge acquisition to get a clear overview of the picture. There I believe that it has been done very much, as I also explained in my reply. This is not just relevant to getting an overview or research. It is of relevance because it has to be mapped for example. the chemicals to which exposure was common are also the basis for subsequent individual requirements. I believe it is important to continue the kind of research and work, both through the occupational health departments, and also, as I mentioned, the Cancer Register, which has now been funded by the Research Council and the industry. They will set up a new survey of offshore workers which will also include staff employed after 1998. It's important. The second track referred to here is primarily the occupational indemnity insurance scheme. That's where I mentioned the legal system, because this report expresses a frustration at the treatment of these cases in the judicial system, among other things. in the context of the so-called Presupposition rule in a case of the Supreme Court in 2012. I understand the frustration of parties who are engaged in this, and who have not got the outcome they want. At the same time, it is important to say that we do not govern the judgements of the judiciary. What the legislator has to do in such a case is to see if the legislation needs to be amended. That's why I think it's good arguments to look at just the Professional Injury Insurance Act, and at least get the arguments that have come together and systematize them, and look at whether the practice of the law and the understanding of it suggests that you should change it, to bring it closer to what was originally the intention. It is then important to say that it will not automatically solve all problems, because some of these people have injuries that might have been discovered and identified before the law came into force in 1990.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2657	Thanks to the interpellant for raising an important case about what might look like a big hole in the code of professional injury. The interpellant calls for a separate Commission to identify the extent of damage suffered by pioneer oil workers and assess any specific compensation on the side of the legislation that actually applies when workers are injured at work. The Labour Party will not oppose it, but at the same time we have five challenges for the inter-pellant and the Council of State: Why is there a need for a separate Commission? Is there a large hole in the legislation in force for workers with occupational injuries that prevents the pioneers from being included in oil? Well, that's gonna have to close the hole before it does. Who are pioneers in oil? Who's going to get, and who's not going to? What about today's oil workers? Is the danger over? Nope. Are we served by a practice in which the State assumes the responsibility of the insurance companies for those who receive a refusal to work and where the employer has manifestly failed in his commitment to health, the environment and safety? This challenge is primarily addressed to the Progress Party. What about workers in other industries? Is the Progress Party occupied by all of them, or is the Progress Party engaged in a kind of party tactical ‘cherry-picking’ in groups that provide media lookups where there is a vote to pick up? Why do I ask that? Yes, because the Labour Party has made repeated proposals in the UK about the necessary improvements in the Code of Professional Damage for all, but has been voted down again and again – by the Progress Party, by the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left – in proposals in 2018, in budget proposals and in connection with the crisis packages in the Stortinget. The Workers' Party's proposals have been on the lack of updating of the occupational injury list, discrimination against women, hired foreign workers who are sent home without compensation, on recognised occupational injury which has lost everything due to the bankruptcy of foreign insurance companies, which in turn has led serious employers to take out insurance without being covered by the guarantee scheme. It is a burden of proof imposed on each employee, not on the employer or insurance company, which is actually responsible. The interpellation of the Progress Party has a good, but slightly narrow focus – an involvement of the pioneers in oil. The Labour Party shares their concerns, but we also think about today's oil workers and occupational injuries in other professions. It does not do the party of progress, uncertainly for what reason, beyond the purely party-tactical. The other, more anonymous, the foreign workers, do not count for the Progress Party, it has proved the vote of the Progress Party time and time again. Nor does the party asking the most important question, whether it concerns oil pioneers or other workers, Norwegian or foreign: Who has the burden of proof in occupational injuries? Today, individual workers themselves have to obtain proof that disease or injury is occupationally related. That also applies to the oil pioneers. The Labour Party considers that it is the employment and welfare seat and the insurance companies that should bear the burden of proof in cases of occupational injury. The question from the inter-pellant boils down to the following: to make another special arrangement for a limited profession, as we have done for the North Sea divers and the veterans in foreign service, where the State assumes responsibility. As I said, the Labour Party should not oppose it, but we also challenge the Progress Party: what about all the other workers who are not allowed to exercise their legal rights? Why is the Progress Party not concerned with them? An interference is non-obligatory. The Labour Party has today promoted a new representative proposal with very concrete proposals that are important both for oil pioneers and for today's oil workers, plus all other workers. The Labour Party will reverse the burden of proof in occupational injuries, have equal rights for men and women, equal rights for Norwegian and foreign workers and stricter controls on unprofessional employers. I am really challenging both the interpellant from the Progress Party and the Council of State to reflect around it in their final posts. The working party is committed to ensuring justice for all those injured in the job. Is the Progress Party also that, or does the Advance Party continue to highlight someone and turn its back on others? If we do not get an answer to that today, we will at least have it when the Workers' Party's proposal on fair professional injury for all is being dealt with. This should also be followed closely by ordinary workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2688	I would also like to start by thanking the interpellant Meininger Saudland for raising a matter that unfortunately is still too many, and I want to lighten it. I would also like to thank the representative of Christoffersen for taking a broader debate on this at a later stage. We know that Norwegian working life is generally well regulated, with a protection of health, environment and safety that is among the best in the world. Most people work under safe working conditions and thrive at work. Of course, that's the way it should be, but it hasn't always been like that. Those who are now entering the labour market meet another and hopefully better regulated and safer working life based on the experience we have had, and the development of both norms, expectations and, above all, new technologies that reduce the burden on the labour market. That doesn't mean that we've managed to eliminate all the risks, or that we'll ever be able to do just that. Prevention is still the most important thing we do. At the same time, workers who are injured or sick by the job must be properly followed up. Therefore, employers also have an obligation to take out insurance for their employees against occupational injury. The working environment is an employer's responsibility and the responsibility of the authorities is to ensure good laws and regulations and to monitor their follow-up. But what Norwegian working life is today is something different from what it was, and not least the pioneer divers and oil workers of early Norwegian oil age. This has also been on the political agenda up to several times. Extensive investigation work has been carried out to identify the extent, follow-up and, in particular, to provide a better basis for prevention. The Minister presented both investigative work, large-scale reports and reports that have been dealt with and followed up over the last decades. It shows that the problem has been taken seriously and followed up by both industry and government. There is little doubt that former oil workers have experienced stress that has affected their health. That is why I would like to thank the interpellant again for lighting this again. There are many occupational groups that are socially critical and make a major contribution to our society. Not least the pandemic has shown us. However, regardless of the social-critical nature of the job and its contribution to the Norwegian economy, all workers must be guaranteed a good and safe working environment. This is the responsibility of employers through the occupational indemnity insurance scheme and it should remain so. You should not relieve anyone of that responsibility or leave it to the authorities and exempt employers. As this review shows, the problem has been taken seriously and followed up by both industry and government. Nevertheless, I am very pleased with the signals given by the Council of State, namely contact with the Minister of Justice. It shows that the problem continues to receive attention and follow-up today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2703	I want to thank Gisle Meininger Saudland for bringing up a theme I would say is a close parallel to what has been and is the situation of the North Sea divers. Pioneer oil workers have been exposed to very harmful chemicals for decades. As the interpellant said, they have ruined their health. One feels ignored and worthless when the transmission damage has been done too fully. Exactly latex is an incredibly important keyword, because that's what it really is. Sensation damage is common in many sectors of Norwegian working life, including: in the case of diesel and plant dynamite smoke, where many people experience allergies, nausea and headaches, which are really devastating, not only for the working day but too much, much more. We'll see how the late injuries come. We have today a discussion about electromagnetic radiation and what consequences it can have. Today it's being treated very superficially, but it's pretty obvious that there's something that we'll have to take a much deeper look at, because there's a lot of people who experience that this is practical reality in everyday life. Pioneer oil workers must now have a fair and long-term upliftment, and they must have their right to what they have believed will be covered every year, but as legal cases and unworthy meetings with the public or insurance companies have deprived them. Norway must have effective occupational indemnity insurance, which is not suspect but which is based on diagnosis, which is the best one to understand of science in the present. Pioneer oil workers have paid a high price through damaged health for Norway's wealth, and we must, as I said, get a worthy end. The work of industrially injured oil workers dates back to 2003, and the interpellant has presented in a good way all statements from previous government councils. After we got the current government, the red-green opposition has pressed for change, which has not happened. There are many who have had a demanding meeting with Nav when they have been entitled to disability benefit. These people have now become small in the face of powerful insurance companies when they have applied for professional damages. We received a law on occupational injury in 1989, and it was supposed to ensure that those who were injured or ill by their job would have a legitimate benefit. There is now a great need to go through the system of occupational indemnity insurance and the Professional Indemnity Act needs to be reviewed. It is gratifying to experience that the Council of State in a real way, I would say, is now showing that there is something the Council of State is taking the initiative in relation to the Minister of Justice – that this really has to be dealt with, and that this is not a superficial thing, but a real message from the Council of State at the Chair here. I really appreciate that. There must also be a review of the scheme and end with the fact that the sellers of insurances will also measure the compensation. The role of hubs is to measure disability benefits. There should perhaps be a clear context here in which, when a person is subject to disability benefits, he is also entitled to an occupational injury allowance on the basis of the purpose of the Professional Indemnity Act. Finally, I just want to say that we need to get a clean-up, as has happened to the North Sea divers. That report the interpellant referred to is strong reading. Too many years have passed without an improvement in their situation. I want to thank the interpellant for the commitment, and I hope it means that the Progress Party is now on a different line than one has been on before. It's reassuring.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2722	The case of the injured oil workers is another example that shows that we have had and have a work life that is harmful to many. The representative Christoffersen of the Workers' Party took up a lot of those aspects of it, and I very much agree with the considerations that came from the Workers' Party in this matter. When the matter of the North Sea divers was up, SV was very central in working with it. Some of the problems then were to determine whether the employer and the government knew how dangerous it was. We suggested that you, because this was so hard to figure out and prove in retrospect, act as if you had a real responsibility. That matter was settled, but it is at least a great lesson for me to see that here there is a need to also look at the knowledge of the dangerous working conditions, not only with the employer, but also with the state. I have also worked a lot on the matter that was about the amalgamated dental assistants who had to fight in the round after the round and finally won the Supreme Court. To say it like that, I don't remember how old I was when I realized that amalgam was dangerous, so I think there were actually a lot of people who knew, but nevertheless the system was so unwilling to see this. What is still very unwilling to see is all the damage that is being done to women in heavy care professions, where there is not one such injury, but stress over time that actually causes you to lose your health. It is also necessary to recognise the type of damage that is caused by professional injury, because it is. That's why it's important that we approach this not only from the knowledge that has now emerged, but also from a much broader approach, where we need to change this in the law. I'm glad the council also says that. He is quite right that we cannot intervene in the courts, but the meeting with the administration is also described – in this case and in very many other cases – as quite dramatic, yes, evil, simply. The Council of State shall be responsible, inter alia, for: Navel. Here it is also possible to look at how the administration actually is. One is how the administration practices the law, that is, that it does the right thing. When it came to dental assistants, obviously it didn't, but you kept doing it anyway. In these cases, it can also be thought that it is not only the law that is too bad, to say the same – I think it is too – but also that the practice of administration has to be looked at. Here, there is a need to think systematically in the future. One is what you've known before has been harmful, and few systems that capture it, but also when there are new things that turn out to be harmful in retrospect. To put it that way: I think it was known that many of the chemicals to which the oil workers were exposed were harmful. I think you actually did, so that means that the employer and that side are more responsible. It is also the responsibility of the State to identify and know what is harmful about, for example, chemicals to which people are exposed in their work. There the knowledge evolves, of course it does, but it must also mean that the government looks at this regulation regularly. Now I think the distress calls from a lot of people who have been hurt in their professional life, whether it's women, oil workers or those who worked with amalgam, have been pretty loud for a long time. I am looking forward to the Storting joining forces with us to have a reinforced code of conduct on this, and I am pleased to attend and discuss the Workers' Party's proposal on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2743	Thank you to the interpellant for raising an incredibly important matter. Some took the noise of developments on the socket, and the level of knowledge for HMS was not good enough at that time. It has a completely different status in the oil industry and otherwise in the business world today than it had at the time. The interpellant had a good post, I thought, and outlined human suffering in the wake of the development of the oil industry. Yes, it is an ethical, moral and economic responsibility, and this responsibility must be placed. Many are sadly dead – it is a great loss for them and a great loss for their family. But some still have the strength to take up the fight. I found the question from the interpellant to the Council of State to be particularly important and relevant. It is good, I think, that the Minister has contacted the State Council of Malta and that they will follow up this track. It has to be done. Then we must not make this a competition between the Labour Party and the Progress Party – this is one too important thing. We can cooperate on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2757	I got a note during the debate and got some challenges on a tight arm. I would like to thank you for participating in the debate, and for many of them being so offensive and saying that this is a problem we have to take seriously. I would also like to thank the Council of State for that. There were some challenges both about who are pioneering, about whether the government should take responsibility, and what about all the others. It's clear that when we promote an interpellation, we don't have a sandwich list of what to do with all professional groups. But I think it's among other things. something a commission or a sample, which we want, also has to look at. Someone has to join and walk up the path for everyone else. And that's not an argument against doing something for the North Sea divers, saying, "What about all the others?" I think that's really an argument for the opposite. That means you have to do something where wrong has been committed, and here wrong has been committed, and we have to look at it. I don't want to make this a party-political competition or debate. When I visited them, we never discussed party politics or who had done wrong, or who did what, and who should do what. Nevertheless, the Workers' Party comes under attack and in a way has a party-political rhetoric. I don't want to make this a political game. For me, it doesn't matter who gets the political benefit of this. The Workers' Party can get it if they want it. I just want it to be a justice for those who have been hurt. Then I see that Lundtigen had a slightly different approach in his post, where he had very many good reflections and moments. I fully support them. I hope we can get cross-political cooperation to look at this group, so that they get justice. Finally, I want to say that many of those that apply are now at an age that makes it urgent. They were young when they worked offshore, in the 1970s and 1980s. A survey carried out by the National Association of Occupational Health and Safety itself showed that of 700 workers, half are either disabled or dead. It shows what can be said in the statistics is ‘significant’, that there is an over-representation of those who have become ill who have had this profession. I hope this is something we can look at, and I hope we can have a constructive debate on this topic during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2774	Thank you for the interpellation debate. First of all, a brief comment on the very specific proposal by the representative, which in itself is not a proposal as such, since this is an interpellation. As I've shown, there's been a lot of work on acquiring knowledge in this area. I believe that much of what was requested in the early 2000s is now in place, and the knowledge acquisition continues. I also think that there is a point that, although situations may arise – and the North Sea divers were in such a situation – where you have to lift a single group out of the ordinary track and make your own arrangements, you should use it with some caution. It is because there may also be other professional groups that may face some of the same issues but that may not necessarily receive the same political attention. When I was a newly elected staging representative from Telemark, I met Tordis Klausen a lot, and that might be an example. One thing is their very specific case, which went in the legal system, but it was also an example that for a period it might have been that, for example. some women in low-paid health care professionals did not receive the same kind of attention. As I said, I think it's the law track you have to look at here, it's our job as politicians. And although I have now said that I have spoken to the Minister of Justice, and that I believe it is worth looking at the Occupational Insurance Act, it is not automatically that it will mean a solution for all these people. It can rather be said that the law does not have retroactive effect, and some of these are not covered by the law that came in 1989–1990. But it's nevertheless an important process to look at it and consider whether to start something bigger around it, because it's one of the things that's pointed out here. And maybe that's how the case law has made this look a little bit different now than what was originally the idea. I might then stress, in an interpellation debate. Then there are announced representative proposals on the rules of professional injury in general. Of course, we'll look at that when it comes. In general, I would like to say that these are rather complicated questions and have many aspects of them, so here too, it is probably a good idea to have processes that make you highlight all the aspects of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2785	The debate on substance is closed. 10 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2801	I just need to say that once the committee has dealt with this, we have read the propositions very carefully, because we have also received a good deal of enquiries from people who are concerned, both from those who are not digital, and also from those who are digital and want more infection protection. So here both sides are represented. I just want to stress that there is a unanimous committee that says yes to these legislative changes, but of course we assume that the Department and the Council of State follow up the premises in the proposition, in order to ensure equal living democracy, which is a prerequisite for these changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2808	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox Case No. 12 and 13 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2840	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2847	Let me first of all thank the Committee for its good cooperation on a matter which has received a priority and rapid consideration in the Committee. This proposition came on Friday. We are dealing with it today, and it will have effect from Monday. That means something. It means something to those who have been hard hit for a long time, it means something to the managers who have had to lay off their employees, and it means something to those who have a lot of turnover and will need time to get up their activity. With the compensation scheme, companies may, for example: in the field of travel and culture, withdraw the leavers who may be involved in preparation and marketing, even if the revenue is not yet in place. In this way, they will be able to provide their services more quickly on the day the customers are back. The most important thing we can do now to reduce the long-term consequences of the pandemic is to make sure that people get back to work quickly. In addition, this scheme will make it easier to bring back people who can work to prepare the company on the day the activity resumes. For some, there may also be a good opportunity to provide staff with skills, especially in sectors where the pandemic will put lasting traces. It is not new that the Right in Government prioritises education and competence. But in the situation we're in, it's quite obvious that the need is greater than for a long time. Strengthening the skills of employees is most important for new growth in many enterprises, especially where markets have been permanently changed, and you will not come back to the job or challenge you left. So the government's going to be 100 million. kr to the intra-company training scheme. Past crises have taught us that education and skills building are important to prevent people from staying out of work. We have to make sure that those who are unemployed today get the skills that business needs tomorrow. The way out of the crisis is about creating more and including more. We need to create new jobs and get people back to work. This will be helped by the wage support scheme. It is important that we facilitate activity, innovation and transformation, and that we also look forward to the longer-term challenges we face. The longer this crisis lasts, the more important it becomes. There are many good measures that now have a majority. Employers with a fall in turnover of 70 p.m. or more will receive up to NOK 25 000 per month per self-employed person withdrawn from leave. If the turnover is less than 70 p.p., the amount of the aid will gradually decrease to NOK 10000 for a loss of sales of 15 p.p. In order to take account of local closures, employees may be reinstated without loss of earned or future support and employees in other types of jobs may be permised without loss of earned or future support. Employees may be partially withdrawn and the number of employees supported and their turnover is fully transparent. This is important to prevent misuse of the scheme. We have always said that we should have effective measures as long as the crisis lasts. We're going to do what's needed to get Norway safe through the crisis. We're willing to use the entire toolbox, but it's important that we use the right tools at the right time. That is why I am pleased that, through the treatment of the Storting, we have gathered a broad majority in order for the social partners and the government to make an assessment during April of the impact of the infection situation and vaccination rate on the economic outlook, and therefore also the need for an extension and, if necessary, other adjustments to the wage support system, and come back to the Storting on a case-by-case basis. With this, I will conclude by thanking the Committee once again for a quick and effective procedure in an important case for many people who are now on leave and who are hopefully going to come back to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2872	Today, the Stortingeet adopts a wage support scheme so that several of the many lay-offs can be taken back to work – a scheme developed by the social partners together with the government on order from a decision earlier this year. This is the Norwegian model at its best. On Friday last week, the leader of the LO was at a press conference and told about the new pay support scheme. There Hans-Christian Gabrielsen said that it is good that we now have a system that stimulates activity and that can make people come back to work. The LO was also listened to in the case of funds for competence measures, a requirement of the LO was imposed on the government all the way. Today we adopt 100 million. extra for intra-corporate training and, therefore, a pay support scheme which will receive more people back to work. It feels very good after the heavy message we got on Tuesday. Nevertheless, the compensation scheme has significant weaknesses that need to be pointed out. The Workers' Party shares the concerns that it favours companies that have licensed employees, while the enterprises that despite difficulties have chosen to keep employees in employment are not allowed to participate in the pay support scheme. It is a problem that the scheme does not equate the permit and the companies have retained it. Unfortunately, the model adopted today makes it possible to replace old lay-outs with new ones. That's not the intention of the arrangement. Flexibility needs are highlighted here. Enterprises may replace old ones with new ones, so that they receive state support, but do the same number of hours as before the scheme. The government answers that the tax rate can be checked, but there is reason to wonder how verifiable this will be. At all times during this crisis, the Workers' Party has made demands on the schemes that are disappointingly not being implemented this time either. It is about excluding crew companies, supporting only serious companies and securing the employees, not the shareholders. After eight crisis packages, it is time to set up a fair crisis policy, and in the beginning of 2021, examples of companies that have paid large dividends to their owners despite the fact that they have resigned employees and received crisis support. That's why this is a lost chance. Crisis money should save the employees, not the shareholders. If you receive a payroll, the company does not have to pay bonuses and high jumps in management salaries. This time, too, the government parties say no to a payoff stop and no to a fair crisis policy. The working party is pleased that the scheme can work immediately, so that the lay-offs can return to work quickly, perhaps from Monday on. The working party has noticed that several people are asking for a longer duration of the scheme, but with the same payment period. It will tighten the legs under the scheme because many people see themselves well-deserved to wait to pick people up. The last people deserve to be asked to go even further home – just a little bit more. Many people working in tourism, hotels and catering have been out of work for a long time now. A little longer is too long. That being said, the Labour Party sees the problem that later wage support may also be needed. The coronary virus flares up over and over again. Vaccination may be delayed. And if there's something the crisis has taught us, it's unpredictable. Therefore, a reassessment of the plan is in place. In a month, the world may look different. It must then be possible to adjust the scheme. Finally, the labour market has become tougher in the last year. The working party is concerned that the possibilities for those sitting at the bottom of the table even before the crisis should be pushed further away now. For this reason, the Workers’ Party, the Centre Party and the SV propose to set up 1 000 new action sites, 1000 action sites for people with disabilities and 300 permanent job vacancies. No one should stand alone through the crisis. Now we're going to get more people back to work. With that, I would like to address the proposals made by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2891	The representative, Eigil Knutsen, has taken up the proposals behind the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2896	I want to start by being a little positive, perhaps not boasted by the government, although there are not so many who hear this tonight, but at least confirm that the government delivers well on what has been the lead proposal of the Progress Party in terms of wage support. It might not be random. The proposed facility and the amounts set out in the new scheme have been significantly improved compared to the previous one, from 2020 onwards. Wages and salaries support for a limited period shall stimulate enterprises to return to work on leave and contribute to increased activity, as the Stortinget has previously decided. The development of infectious diseases is very little predictable, and therefore the financial support schemes must be flexible and adapted to the measures taken by the government. The main success factor in how we manage the corona, and how fast society can open up, is in any case the vaccination and implementation of the vaccine programme. It is the responsibility of the government to ensure adequate supplies of vaccines and that vaccination is carried out as quickly as in comparable countries. The general compensation scheme, with partial cost coverage for the enterprises, will cease on 1 July. There is a need to stimulate increased activity in order to return to normal and ensure that businesses take back employees on leave. The situation is still uncertain and not predictable. We can hope that it is possible to open up until summer, but at the same time, there are many industries that indicate that new jobs and activities are unlikely to occur until early August/September. Therefore, new economic measures need to be flexible on both device and duration. The wage support scheme is flexible and can be used even if local measures for the protection of infection provide different outcomes and need for total or partial closure, and this must be at the stage we are now entering. On a material point, the government’s proposal is too poor and it concerns the duration of the scheme. For this reason, the Progress Party has proposed to extend the scheme until 1 September, but so that no application for wage support can be made for more than 3.5 months, as proposed. It will contribute to flexibility and will provide greater predictability for industries that are uncertain about the future in both the short and long term. I am pleased that the Centre Party supports our proposal, but at the same time I am disappointed with the Workers' Party, which does not want to contribute to the flexibility and predictability of businesses and employees. The majority’s proposal to ask the government to reconsider during April and possibly return to the Storting may mean that any extension is pushed into the revised budget and creates uncertainty for those affected. Unfortunately, the financial support measures proposed by the government have happened a little too often, and it should be completely unnecessary to repeat that error. For the Progress Party, predictability and long-termity are important, so that small and medium-sized enterprises dare to take up activity and look a way out of the crisis. Based on the government's message that we are now seeing the end of a long-term pandemic, it should be easy to listen to the signals from our business life and help to plan and prepare as much as possible the start-up and transition to normal operation. With this, I will address the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2913	The representative Hans Andreas Limi has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2918	Now it is quite exactly one year since Norway shut down, and people and businesses, self-employed, freelancers – the whole of Norwegian society – were severely affected by the strict control measures introduced. There was a need for rapid action both on the protection of persons' income and on compensation for enterprises and on a separate scheme for self-employed and freelancers, which was designed in Stortinget and in dialogue with the government. Then by several crossroads we have also had a pay support scheme, which has had its clear weaknesses. We've been busy getting a new payroll model. I am very pleased that a majority at Stortinget in a decision in January said that the government, in cooperation with the parties, would come back with a new model of wage support. We are pleased that there is now a new wage support scheme, and that it will also be able to come into force quickly, so hopefully we can help people to be more at work instead of going on leave. The model that has been presented, the solution that has been presented, nevertheless has some clear weaknesses. For those businesses that, despite being hard hit by the pandemic over time, as far as it has been possible, have tried to keep their people in work instead of permitting, come badly out of this system as it is now designed. Therefore, there is a need to quickly ask the parties in cooperation with the government to look at both the device and the solution to the model in order to see if it can be improved. When the ambition is to have a pay-as-you-go scheme, to provide support to the companies that have been most hit over time, we believe that one of the things that one should also look at when to have a new review of the scheme, is whether there is another way one should have calculated it, rather than taking some particular dates for when the employee must have been licensed in order to be eligible for the scheme. I am now registering – and I am pleased – that the government parties are involved in including another date in the list of dates that the licensed person must have been licensed in order to be able to join the scheme and be reinstated with salary support. But it illustrates the great uncertainty that is involved in the matter relating to that very point, when the government parties themselves, a few days after the government has submitted the matter, feel the need to enter into such a proposal. So I would definitely ask the government in cooperation with the parties to look at what goes on in the calculation period. So for duration. It is important to put the wage support system in place quickly. But what we know is that it's very different from who can now have the opportunity to use it. In some regions, there is also a very strict local response, which means that there are a number of establishments in a number of industries that are currently either completely shut down or almost shut down. It was also announced by the government, at the latest with a statement from the Prime Minister a few days ago in the United Kingdom, that further new and stringent national measures could be introduced. For this reason, it is also important to have flexibility in the wage support scheme, so that those businesses that now have the opportunity to withdraw quickly have the opportunity to do so, but at the same time for those enterprises that have to wait a little longer than spring in order to have at all the opportunity to take back some particular leave, at least those businesses that are most in need of employees when they actually have customers in their restaurant, for example. Therefore, it is wise to have a flexible approach, one with a three-and-a-half-month period during which one can receive support per employee, but the duration is 1 September. It is the uncertainty that one creates by saying that one should come back to it in May, which unfortunately many choose not to use the scheme now. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2933	5 minutes is 5 minutes. I'm asking the representative to notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2938	There are now about 200,000 job seekers. However, although the measures taken to prevent infection were widely affected and all groups of the population were affected, the risk of dismissal and permitment is socially dependent. There is clearly a higher risk of loss of work for people with low income, low education, low income family background and minority background. Families with children are also more vulnerable. We see that this crisis can have long-term consequences for Norway, but perhaps especially for those with low wages in Norway. The system put forward by the government has quite a few weaknesses, which is confirmed by the fact that shortly after the scheme was presented, there was a need to make changes and to return to the Stortinget. So the scheme rewards companies that have posted employees, but businesses that have gone a long way in keeping people in work are not allowed to participate. That's what I think is going to make a lot of business owners pretty damned. SV wants primarily to include compensation of employees in the ordinary business compensation scheme, which was also proposed by the Holden Committee last summer. I started this article talking about the people who are now out of work. I think it is quite significant that the government is constantly placing emphasis on schemes that are in favour of employers and owners of capital, while it is impossible for the government to join in the tightening-up of the labour force in the first place. We believe that the only thing right here would be to make sure that those who want to cancel or leave other employees have to give up the payroll. The same applies to claims such as not paying dividends and bonuses or ensuring that grants only go to serious actors. That should be a broad consensus. In the light of the experience we have gained with the business compensation scheme, where the really large payments have gone to the largest corporations, to those with the strongest owners of capital in their backs, we will avoid the same with this scheme. That's why SV and several of the red-green lots propose to put a monthly ceiling of 5 million. kr or, where applicable, a common roof with a compensation scheme of 10 million. kr. Neither would the government. Finally, there is now a great deal of concern that the unemployment rate is falling at an too high level. I think it should be clear to us in this Chamber that this system that we are dealing with today is not at all an answer to that or enough to counteract those concerns. Much more action is needed. In this setting SV and the red-green parts suggest, among other things. that the support can be used to allow more people to take professional letters at work or to use working time for other skills building. There are funds and proposals for 1000 new places for wage support and 300 places for permanent work. It is the kind of action that can really help to counteract some of the social inequalities that now exist and with which the government has unfortunately shown too little interest in doing something. I am addressing the proposal SV has promoted together with MDG and Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2956	The representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2961	Tomorrow is a year since Norway closed down to the pandemic, and we are still in an uncertain situation considering how long it will last. There are a lot of companies that are now in a critical situation. Here in Oslo we have been shut down since November. Just as many people in the outdoor industry and others thought they could start opening up again, we got new shut-downs, and it's hard to see when you'll be able to open up again. This case, about wage support in order to make it easier for businesses to get out of the crisis, needs to be seen in conjunction with all the other measures we have implemented, of course the general compensation scheme, which is crucial, but also the decisions we have taken to help businesses out of the crisis through support for business through the municipalities. We've allocated 250 million. kr in connection with the ejaculation, 1 bn. kr now in the last crisis package, and there are still 750 million. kr set aside for a corresponding payment to the municipalities. Last year we also had a pay support scheme. This compensation scheme is higher than the scheme implemented in 2020, with a maximum of 25 000 DKK per 30 days per employee, together with a more gradual phasing-out. So it's a better arrangement. For non-taxable institutions or organisations, and for apprentices, there is a maximum of NOK 15 000 per 30 days per employee. That's good. There is a great deal of uncertainty about the infectiveness situation. Although there is now a prevalence of more and more vaccines and we have more stringent measures, it is possible that the situation looks better for the summer. I think everyone hopes that we'll be able to get into a situation where it looks better, and where we can see that we're now at the end of this crisis, on the way out, and that businesses can open up again. This wage support scheme will make it easier and will be absolutely essential for the activity to be relaunched. However, I am pleased that we in the Committee have agreed that during April and together with the parties, the government will have to review the end date of the compensation scheme, because it is clear that if it does not evolve in the positive way we hope, the end date – 30 June – will have to be extended. It's good that the government does this. It is good that it is done with the parties, and that we get our own case to the Stortinget, so that, if that situation should arise, we can make quick decisions. On the left hand side, we are also pleased that we have agreed to add a date, that is, 15 January, so that persons who have a permit can also be eligible if 15 January and 15 March are a time when they are allowed. It gives us some more flexibility, and it makes us embrace more than we would otherwise have done. There has been a good work in the committee to get it done. Then it is important that we also increase support for business-internal training. There's an increase of 200 million. kr in the budget for 2021, but now with an additional 100 million. kr, so that those on leave can use this period as much as possible for training and be even better prepared when society reopens. It is never a good thing that a pay-as-you-go scheme is needed. At the same time, it is good that we have now received this matter. We've come to an agreement, and then we're hoping that the assessment that's to be made during April will show that society can open up again. Otherwise, this scheme must also be continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2978	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a quick and pointed-out discussion, where we are presenting an approach with broad support for much of the main part of what is going on in the proposal. That's what I think is good, and I'll try to keep an article that's in line with the fast and good treatment that has been. The scheme that the Stortinget now adopts is very similar to the payroll scheme that one has previously agreed in the Stortinget before the summer, but there are two things that are different from the scheme that was before. The arrangements we are adopting are more flexible, and the amount of support is higher. The reason why that's good is that one then hopefully can get a system where even more layoffs can come back. The basis for this is good when it comes to allowing one to prepare a boot. We see that for parts of the business world the situation will be different, and now there is a support that allows you to take back and help back to the normal and the change and the work that needs to be done there. In addition, there are increased privileges to in-house training. Part of the reason is that you can increase the competence of some of them by being able to get them back to work instead of going on leave. Then this will be a targeted grip for Norway on the way out of the crisis. In the discussions we have had in the committee, there are two new proposals for decisions which have been widely accepted. One is to add 15 January as one of the dates that can qualify companies within the scheme. I think I'm right and good, all the time we had shut down early in January, which means that that date can catch up with someone else. As previously mentioned by several, we get a new assessment in April, where one should also have with the parties. Some of the things that make the system now get such a broad agreement, I think the tripartite cooperation has worked well, and that one has managed to discuss itself until good solutions. For the Christian People's Party's part, I think the best part of that arrangement is that it's also clearly directed towards the part of Norwegian business that might have it tough right now, and that doesn't have the possibilities that big businesses have to raise funds in the capital market, that's the small and medium-sized enterprises. It is they who come within this system. What I mean is a reasonable delimitation. I think it's good to see that even if there's any other primary position and anyone would see that the system was set up a little bit differently, we can at least gather that this system will be a good order and will be gathering along the way out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e2991	There's light in the horizon now even though there's still one way to go. As with the crisis, the reopening of society will turn out to be different. Some activity will come back immediately, but we have to expect that it will take longer in several branches. We must take that into account when designing financial support schemes. We have to help those who need it, but we also have a responsibility not to use the community's funds to secure activity that comes back anyway. Nor should we discourage conversion when necessary, or prevent growth where growth is possible. I am pleased that a majority on the Stortinget supports this strategy. In the future, we need to get a permit back to work. The compensation scheme we presented last week will help, in particular, companies with a large turnover drop and who have workers who have been on leave for some time. With this scheme, enterprises may, for example: take back those who are authorised to work on preparation and marketing, so that they are ready to provide their services on the day of demand. Other establishments may use the mechanism to take back the training and development leave of the enterprise pending the commencement of the activity. In order to strengthen the skills of employees, we propose to allocate 100 million. extra kr for intra-company training. In the design of the scheme, there has been a strong desire of the social partners to make the scheme more flexible and generous than the previous one. The government has taken care of that, and I am pleased that the parties are behind the arrangement. The Government proposes a scheme where, in most cases, wage support is significantly higher than in the previous wage support schemes. The Government proposes that the scheme should last until 30 June. I have noticed that a majority at Stortinget believes that this can be too early, and that the uncertainty surrounding the activity level of the summer is still great. The system has some unfortunate features that make it not to last too long. Companies that have permitted many will find it profitable to keep their turnover at low levels in order to avoid losing a lot of support. Therefore, I believe that we need to be careful with an extension of the arrangement in its present form, but we will, together with the parties, review the prospects during April and come back to Stortinget. Finally, I would like to thank the Stortinget for rapid treatment, so that the scheme can be implemented as planned, and so that businesses can have predictability in the future. I would also like to thank the social partners – the NHO, the Works and the LO – for a good cooperation in the design of the scheme. I would particularly like to highlight Hans-Christian Gabrielsen's efforts and participation in all the rounds we have had, at the latest when we were together and launched this scheme last Friday. Through clarity and principle, and not least kindness and willingness to find solutions across political and other dividing lines, Hans-Christian contributed to the improvement of the system. He said what he meant, and he meant what he said. He stays standing as a model for good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3006	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3011	Thank you to the Minister of Finance for wise words about an important LO leader at the end of his speech. The proposition states that it is important to prevent abuse and to displace other employees who perform the same function, but that flexibility is given to businesses, which allows for the permitting of others. It also says in the proposition: ‘As long as the business can refer to such concrete business justification, the aid will be maintained.’;» My question is – just in order to understand it properly: are companies to have the business rationale in readiness, and thus to provide it with any back-up checks, or do they have to submit such a justification as they go to new permits or cancellations? So this is the case with the enterprises that receive wage support.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3023	This is part of some of the difficult balances that have been in the scheme. On the one hand, there has been a desire for flexibility, and on the other hand, we are concerned that it should be targeted and that it should not be misused. We've discussed this a lot with the parties. The parties themselves have emphasised both the criterion of substance and the rules of the game between the social partners, which means that at least for the serious businesses I believe this should be taken care of. It should not be such that you can permit or cancel people who have comparable jobs, but there may be a restaurant that has restaurants in different cities, where there may be different rules for infectious diseases, which make this flexibility necessary. There may also be business reasons that make you have to be able to have that flexibility. We have not completed the portal itself, so this is one of the questions that needs to be resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3032	My next question concerns this with competence in the system, and I understand that this with company internal training should also be addressed in the application portal. The Financial Committee has had a small political workshop, and together with the parties we will make new assessments during April. There are some requests in the case, which do not get a majority here today, but are about to link the structure of competence closer to the scheme, exemplified by the offer of professional letters in jobs for employees who are retiring from wage support and who lack advanced training. The question to the Council of State is whether it will also consider that type of question, to link competence measures even more closely to the scheme, during the April round with the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3041	This is also one of the questions we have discussed a lot with the parties. Both employers and employees want the scheme to facilitate the inclusion of employees, it should also be possible to link it with means of competence. But it's hard to claim it. The parties have also accepted that it is difficult to connect it so closely. But we have agreed that we should make this visible on the portal itself. We're also going to spend some time with the parties in the future, so that they market this scheme properly in their organisations. Professional letters at work are a very good example. I had the pleasure of getting that system in place when I was a minister of knowledge. It's also a system that the government has strengthened during this crisis, and a very good example of what you can start with in the situation we're in now. So that's a good order. There are also many other means of competence, so we hope the companies now use this time in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3048	The general compensation scheme with partial cost recovery for the enterprises is scheduled to expire on 1 July. So we know that there are still a lot of companies that will have corona challenges after that date, and there are also more industries that warn that it will be difficult to start up to summer or before summer vacation and believe more in activity beyond August to September. On the basis of the continuing uncertainty, what is the reason for terminating the compensation scheme as early as 1 July, and what major negative incentive effects can actually arise by extending the scheme to 1 September, but with a limit of 3 1⁄2 months?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3053	Now we have many schemes that provide compensation and support for businesses if they have a fall in turnover. And we make it very clear in the proposition that when you add these together, it can be very unfortunate incentive effects because it can be more profitable for companies to keep their sales down because they get a lot of support from the state, than to get the activity up and down. Now I don't think this is something that many companies wonder about, but we have to be very aware of the instinctive effects. And we believe that in the future, towards the summer, when a greater part of the population is vaccinated and the measures of infection are being reduced, the activity will come up. Already has 90 pst. has growth, while it's 10 pst. Who's had a big fall. They'll be well compensated, but I think we'll eventually, when we look at the next phase again, have to look more at conversion aid to some companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3059	First, I would like to join the words of the finance minister to the former LO leader Hans-Christian Gabrielsen, who unfortunately went away abruptly, and also the emphasis that the finance minister had on cooperation with the parties. After the press conference, which took place on Friday, there have been recordings from both the employee and employer sides of the scheme. It has, among other things, recorded by Works, which has been very concerned about the duration of the scheme and which just referred to something similar to the Minister of Finance, that some industries can start up with activity fairly immediately, while for others it will be longer in time, also due to infection protection measures and closures. Why is the Minister of Finance not willing to adopt a more flexible approach to the aid scheme where one can look at a total duration per employee, but where the duration of the scheme itself can go further in time, and that it is already being announced, in order to provide predictability?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3066	I believe that such flexibility as the representative calls for will help many to wait. The whole point of this scheme is that part of the companies that are hardest hit can now receive support for several months, and one can use the time to prepare for the period when the activity starts to take up, whether it is an event company that needs to recruit employees to plan activities that may come to summer, or it is enterprises that have large turnovers and that can take employees back and use the time for company internal training. I believe that the system we have come up with is good, but it nevertheless has some unfortunate incentive effects. When we've looked at all of the different models, this is the model that has the least adverse incentive effect. And we have to start thinking about how we're going to make up for the period when the activity gets back up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3071	I was in my post saying that there are many now who are calling out for warning that unemployment can get stuck at an too high level. Most recently, the Nav Director was out with this message recently. This pay-aid scheme, which is in the setting here today, will not be sufficient to counteract it. At the outset, red-green batches propose several measures to improve the situation, in particular those related to those who initially had weak links with the labour market and who are now at risk of further decline. It is about action places, it is about temporary wage subsidies for people with partial working capacity and VTA places, to mention something, but also to provide municipalities with a large searchable pot in order to be able to employ and train unemployed and out of work, because where there is too little private labour force, the public should go ahead. Can we wait for some more measures from the government to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3078	Let me first say that at the bottom of all the action packages we have had through 2020 and now also in 2021, there is a very expansive budget. By 2020 it was even more expansive than it is for this year, and there are also many new labour market measures in this budget. Then it is natural when we come to the revised national budget, which is also not so far away, that the government makes an assessment of the situation for the period from summer to Christmas. It is then natural that we also consider the proposals that the opposition is promoting in this setting, to see if there is a greater need than what has already been granted. But I would like to stress that the level of this year's appropriations is high, including in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3083	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3090	Today it is one year since the WHO declared global health crisis, pandemic. And tomorrow is one year since Norway shut down and introduced the most interventional measures since the war. And it's only been two weeks since the last time we adopted new financial measures as a result of the pandemic. This virus continues to give us surprises. New mutant variants, in particular the infectivity and spread of the British mutant, increase morbidity and new challenges. It also extends the demanding period of severe, invasive disease protection measures, which many had hoped would soon be in place. Today, 685 new infections were reported. The total or partial number of unemployed jobseekers is over 200,000 and 115,000 are completely available. There are very high numbers, and behind the numbers there are people who are in a very difficult situation. And, as the Prime Minister explained on Monday, further intervention by the national authorities may occur if the infection rates are not reduced locally. All of this means that the new, expanded financial measures we are dealing with today, which will apply from Monday, will mean too many. Compensation of employees granted in June to enterprises that take their own permanent employees back to work will remedy the situation in industries that are currently struggling, such as trade in goods, travel and serving. The scheme will provide a higher level of support for retired persons and be more flexible. The condition to be covered by the new remuneration scheme is also extended to those who were on leave on 15 January. This will be an important contribution to increasing demand for labour, to speeding up the return of people to work, thus preventing high levels of unemployability, and not least to prepare us on the way out of the crisis by giving people the opportunity to fill their own jobs and to participate in and contribute to the necessary transition, and to prepare businesses and employees at a more normal level of activity. The extension of the framework of the BIO scheme under the direction of the County Municipality by 100 million. kr supports these grips. For the Right and the Government Parties, it has been important to assure everyone that we will have financial measures as long as the crisis lasts, that we will continue to do what the crisis requires of us, in order to help to provide people with security for their own and the family economy and for their jobs. The prospects for reopening society and normalising working life are uncertain. Even though we see light in the tunnel, we still don't know how long the rest of that tunnel is. Therefore, it is important that the government makes assessments of the need for the extension and adjustment of the wage support scheme and returns to the Stortinget if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3107	I would like to say it is good that the Storting can now gather across the political divides that a person should allocate more money to measures of competence in companies, for example for in-company training, that a person is able to gather about it, and that hopefully that is something that is well used. At least there is a high demand for this type of instrument in many companies today. Then we would also have hoped that one in some other areas could have contributed to strengthening the allocations. One thing is the ones we're talking about today. The people we're talking about today are people who have been on leave, who we want companies to be able to get back to work, so they get back to work and get new skills, and not least can contribute to business activity. But we also have many others, who in an ordinary situation have problems getting into the labour market, and in today's situation are probably longer than it has ever been, for example, those with partial working ability. Therefore, it is also important to strengthen both the system of permanent work organisation, the system of temporary wage subsidies and other types of action that can contribute to a more inclusive working life, which is incredibly important in a situation where we have so many unemployed people and where there are many people who are outside the labour market and who want to contribute. In many areas, we agree on this matter, but in a few essential areas, we distinguish layers, first of all, on what is going on making some clearer demands related to the system. Because there is no doubt – and I also notice that the Minister of Finance says – that there are some demanding balances here. For example, allowing enterprises to receive wage support at the same time can permit other employees, regardless of whether an attempt to hit them, to allow them to be abused. We think it's unwise to give it the opening. On the other hand, it is that one should be able to permite later as a result of new waves of infection, for example, a wise change from before. So let's see what's going on. It seems that the majority here believe that if companies are given the opportunity to take the scheme more flexibly, they will just sit passively and not take back employees. We think it's the opposite: those who have the ability to start up quickly will do it. But for many, that is not the reality in Norway today. Therefore, a person must have greater flexibility, so that all industries are more able to benefit from the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3118	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 12 and 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3131	Then we're ready to go to voting. The former alternate of Oslo, Per Espen Stoknes, is present and has taken the seat. We're going to vote on the number of cases first. 7-12 from Tuesday's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3150	A total of 30 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Per Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2-6, from Per Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party proposal No 7, by Martin Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 8–26, from Per Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 27, from Jenny Klinge on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 28 and 29, from Martin Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 30, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party During the debate, the XI of the Recommendation was amended and now reads: ‘The government is asked to set up a permanent total preparedness committee that reports to the government each year to ensure coordinated management overall and across comprehensive and coordinated threat assessments. Both emergency authorities, community organisations and businesses shall be represented in the sample.’;» There is a vote on proposal No. 27, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to set response time requirements for emergency budgets at municipal level.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3194	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8, 11, 15, 19 and 26, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the appropriateness of setting up its own Ministry of the Interior, following the pattern of other comparable countries, where the Ministry of Justice portfolio is distributed between a dedicated Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce language requirements for health professionals so that they can understand properly and avoid miscommunication.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a digital border defence by ensuring adequate funding of capacity for the provision of cross-border data traffic.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking that in the event of an armed conflict or an attack on Norway, the civilian population is protected in the vicinity of civil and military objectives through rapid access to civil protection measures, while ensuring that exercises for the evacuation of the civilian population in vulnerable areas are carried out.’;» Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government requests the organisation of the fire and rescue services at national level to strengthen the ability to carry out missions in the districts to prevent rapid response times and adequate preparedness.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3231	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9, 10, 12–14, 16–18 and 20–25 of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish a national regime in which critical equipment and medicinal products are stored in rolling stock in Norway.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure predictability in the authorisation process for foreign studies.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a significant strengthening of the PST in order to improve prevention and prevention capabilities.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that society’s ability to deal with intended events is increased through training, training and exercises among employees of educational institutions, drivers and public transport employees, ferry personnel, cruise ship personnel, event managers and employees at high throughput locations.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for action at all levels of the departmental structure and of the underlying agencies to raise knowledge of hybrid attacks or situations, and therefore adequate reporting to the coordinating unit. [[Crise Support Unit]] Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the Civil Protection Act against today’s challenges and needs and to return to the Stortinget with proposals for legislative changes clarifying and clarifying the responsibilities of emergency budgets.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the municipal emergency response obligation is more clearly enshrined in plans and processes under the Planning and Building Act.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The size requests the government to set requirements for the number of exercises-desktop exercises and actual exercises for all emergency situations’.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to return to Stortinget with its own case of regional autonomy for civil defence as an autonomous regional state administration.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a long-term plan of annual personnel and resource strengthening of its civil defence districts based on increased resource allocation.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the number of civil defence officials from around 8000 people today to 10000 by 2023.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to clarify the regional role and responsibilities of civil protection by including civil protection under its own chapter of the State budget.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government requests the creation of a single telephone number for all emergency situations.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the division of tasks between the various emergency situations.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3317	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of the fire and rescue services by introducing a new training model, including basic training at the level of a specialised school and management training at the level of higher education, full-time management requirements in all local fire services and clarifying and prioritising the task portfolio of the fire and rescue services through its own large-scale notification.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3335	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–6, from the Progress Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the shelters to be reviewed by the government, to rest up the shelters so that they can provide real protection, and to draw up a plan to give the population access to shelters.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a supply reserve of critical medicines and medical materials, where non-storage medicines through public-private cooperation need to be provided for the rapid establishment of domestic production capacity.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks whether the crisis support unit of the Ministry of Justice and Defence may include additional disciplines than at present, for example health and transport sectors, in order to detect interdependencies in hybrid, misleading events’.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to further develop the Joint Cyber Coordination Centre and the National Cyber Security Centre by means of adequate funding and updating the basis for setting up the necessary safeguards.’ [[FCKS]] [[NCSC]] Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government requests the implementation of information campaigns against the civilian population on relevant civil protection measures for different types of threats.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3372	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that volunteers who assist the emergency situation in the event of a crisis are entitled to compensation for lost earnings.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3389	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 28 and 29, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a permanent total preparedness committee that reports to the government each year to ensure coordinated management overarching and across, and comprehensive and coordinated threat assessments. Both emergency authorities, community organisations and businesses shall be represented in the sample.’;» Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a compensation scheme for the loss of earnings for volunteers assisting public emergency services.’ The Progress Party, the Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3413	There is a vote on proposal No. 30, from the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Decision 236 of 11 December 2020 is followed up and returns to the Stortinget in connection with the RNB 2021 where the plan to ensure the physical presence of police, based on police stations or police posts, in the relevant districts is presented in line with the decision of the Stortinget of 11 December 2020.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3689	It shall be counted over III, IV, V, VI, VIII, IX, X, XI, XVIII, XIX and XX. The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3703	It shall be counted over XXV, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXXI, XXXII, XLI, XLIII, XLVII and XLVIII. The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3717	It is vottered over XXXIII. Right, Left, Christian People's Party and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3731	It shall be counted over I, II, VII, XII, XIII, XIV, XV, XVI, XVII, XXI, XXII and XXIV. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3745	It is voted over XXVI, XXXIV, XXXV, XXXVI, XXXVII, XXXVIII, XXXIX, XL, XLV, XLV, XLVI and XLIX. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3760	It is voted over XXIII, XXX, XLII and XLIV. All parties have announced support.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3772	It is said to be over L.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e3797	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e4017	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e4027	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e4039	In the course of the debate, three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Seher Aydar on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. Three from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a cut in the electricity charge, subsidisation of network rental, VAT reduction or other measures to ensure low electricity prices for those with low income in periods where the electricity price is high’. The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e4065	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government in the revised national budget for 2021 to strengthen housing support to reach more people and to cover an equal proportion of their living expenditure as in 2010.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to establish a permanent mechanism in the housing aid scheme that ensures increased payments in the event of large increases in the electricity price and other costs of heating.» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e4096	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e4115	During the debate Arne Nävra put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to set up a rapid expert committee to assess the possible long-term effects of the pandemic on travel habits and other transport of importance for Norwegian transport planning. The selection shall provide an interim report so early that it is of value for the Storting's treatment of the national transport plan in the spring of 2021, while a final report shall be available by the end of the year 2021 to 2022.» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e4132	The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e4151	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Terje Halleland on behalf of the Progress Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment the proposals No 4-7, by Terje Halleland, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party During the debate, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party drew support for proposals No. 1 to 3. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-7, from the Progress Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals to the Government which will allow Norwegian dogs to be trained in accordance with the method of detachment for damage to wolves, on the necked dog.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the exemption authority relating to methods of injury is granted by the same authority which takes a decision on indemnity.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case to the Storting for more effective withdrawals of bears causing damage to grazing animals, where the government identifies barriers to effective withdrawal and proposes measures to ensure that harmful bears are effectively removed into grazing priority areas.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case to the Stortinget on how new technical aids can improve the efficiency of the killing of wild game in Norway. Technical aids such as drones, scooters, helicopters, lights, thermal appliances, etc. shall be assessed in this context.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e4196	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Progress Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The Government is asked to propose appropriate measures to improve the effectiveness and consistency of the harm done to predators.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the launch of a competence transfer project in order to transfer the methods and experience of the claims collection teams in the north-east valley and Engerdal to other parts of the country. A course structure should be established and a permanent network should be established to ensure the transfer of knowledge and competence.’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Storting with proposals on how harm-reduction instruments can also help to make licensing cases more effective.’ The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposals. I would like to draw your attention again to the fact that the Socialist Left and the Greens have drawn their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e4232	The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e4244	Case No. 13–15 were interpellations. Then we're going to vote on the issues on today's map. Case No. 1 was the presentation and debate on the proposed constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e4258	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Anette Trettebergstuen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Anette Trettebergstuen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a public body to acquire knowledge and new research on sexual harassment in Norway and to make recommendations on action to this effect, in all areas of society and sectors, with a comprehensive power perspective. The committee should be composed of researchers and representatives of the social partners.’.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e4284	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for increased support for the work of the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman against sexual harassment in the context of the revised State budget for 2021.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e4320	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, from Anette Trettebergstuen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 6 and 7, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asked to initiate cooperation with the social partners in order to provide solutions for equal pay, including a possible multi-annual public-sector equal pay pot, full-time measures and measures to combat the gender-based labour market.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking, on the basis of the cooperation of the parties, for solutions for equal pay to return to the Stortinget on the first occasion with an obliging escalating plan for equal pay in the public sector, including proposals for funding.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e4353	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of tripartite cooperation in the field of equality by setting up its own Council and accompanying budgetary resources.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of equal pay legislation by examining and introducing an equal pay standard, inspired by Iceland, where enterprises over a certain size have to prove that they pay equal pay and where the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and the Discrimination Department are given the opportunity to follow up and sanction non-compliance with the standard.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the social partners, is asked to draw up a strategy against the gender-based labour market, including strengthening the secondary advisory service in order to avoid gender-based educational choices.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to strengthen the work of the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman in following up the activities and in guiding the obligation to provide information, including to refer insufficient explanations to the Discrimination Topic.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to strengthen the ability of the Discrimination Study to enforce legislation and sanctions against activities that do not comply with the duty of activity and presentation, in order to ensure good quality and effective procedural procedures.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e4400	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e4420	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Himanshu Gulati on behalf of the Advance Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with a proposal to abolish the gambling monopoly and to introduce a licensing system providing for a level playing field for Norwegian and international gambling companies.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with a proposal to amend the Marketing Act so that all licensed gaming companies can legally advertise their products.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e4458	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Anette Trettebergstuen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 2-4, from Anette Trettebergstuen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–4, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of a read strategy containing long-term measures to strengthen the commitment and interest of the public as a whole. The strategy must include measures to strengthen access to literature and to facilitate reading promotions at school and at work and other relevant places. It must also include proposals for a level of professional competence to facilitate commitment and motivation for reading. The strategy must be economically committed and cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Knowledge, and industry and reading organisations must be included at an early stage of the design of the strategy.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to return to Stortinget with a separate case on school library, where they propose to impose on municipalities a school library plan that ensures that all children have regular access, including on their own, to a school library with a specialised library.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a report on the most effective measures to increase reading and reading motivation.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e4496	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of a read strategy containing long-term measures to strengthen the commitment and interest of the public as a whole. The strategy shall include measures to enhance access to literature and facilitate reading promotions in schools, workplaces and other relevant places.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e4520	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e4539	During the debate, Mr Giske has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government, in cooperation with cultural life, is asked to draw up a plan for the safe reopening of cultural life, based on the infective situation, as well as a contingency plan with different scenarios if new infective restrictions are introduced, in order to provide predictability for the organisers.’» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e4599	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e4609	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Case No. 8, 9 and 10 were interpellations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e4942	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e4953	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e4965	During the debate, Mr Knutsen put forward two proposals. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 634 Labour market measures 76 Measures for job seekers may be transferred, increased by: 297 250000 from NOK 8 236 475000 to NOK 8 533 725000 ‘... Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 634 Labour market measures 77 Permanently organised work may be transferred, increased by: 29 250000 from NOK 1710 180 000 to NOK 1739 430000 ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e5275	A total of 15 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-11, from Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party the proposals No 12 and 13, from Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposal No 14, from Hans Andreas Limi on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party proposal No 15, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that no enterprise receives more than 10 million. kronor in combined monthly support from the compensation scheme and the ordinary business compensation scheme».
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e5305	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13, from the Workers' Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that persons receiving wage support are offered to use part of their working time for the construction of skills and to enter into contracts with trustees to maintain jobs and invest in the competence of employees.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to facilitate the participation of persons who are eligible for wage support and who have not completed secondary education in the scheme of Professionals in employment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e5327	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-11, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the beneficiaries of wage support cannot permit other employees unless they give up the aid.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that the beneficiaries of wage support cannot be cancelled by other employees, unless they give up the aid.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in order to target more precisely the wage support scheme against hard hit enterprises while at the same time allowing as far as possible the possibility of being included in the scheme, to assess the inclusion of an additional criterion for overall high turnover as a result of the coronary apathy and several alternative dates for which the employee must have been licensed.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the suspension of leave grants goes to serious actors by ensuring that beneficiaries do not have final decisions or judicial decisions against them relating to labour crime, social dumping, tax evasion or non-residential offences.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that crew companies are excluded from the grant scheme and to ensure that grants are not paid in cases where the employee is to be hired, except in cases where rental is justified by the Working Environment Act § 14-13 [[renting between production enterprises]] Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that beneficiaries of grants on a suspended leave cannot pay executive bonuses in the remainder of 2021 and undertakes not to increase executive or board fees in the remainder of 2021.’» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that beneficiaries of grants by a suspended leave cannot make a share buy-back in the remainder of 2021.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that beneficiaries of grants on a suspended leave cannot pay dividends in 2021, except in exceptional cases upon application.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that beneficiaries of grants by a suspended leave cannot have parent companies in third-country jurisdictions on the EU blacklist of non-cooperating jurisdictions and that they have an open tax policy associated with the group.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose a large searchable pot for municipalities to employ/train unemployed and on leave in connection with the revised national budget 2021. Relevant work can be anything from infection tracking to climate adaptation.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that no entity receives more than 5 million. crowns in monthly support from the compensation scheme.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e5394	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law No 23 June 2020 99 on grants in the case of cancelled leaves is amended as follows: [[economic measures in response to the virus outbreak]] Section 2 is replaced by the following: § 2 Scope in time The grant scheme applies to the calendar months July, August, October, November and December 2020 and to the period from 15 March to 1 September 2021. [[1]] [[2]] For 2020, employers may apply for grants for individual employees either for: a. July and August, or one of those months, or b. October, November and December, or one of these months. For 2021, employers may apply for grants for individual employees for the period from 15 March to 1 September. [[3]] Paragraph 5 of the fourth paragraph is replaced by the following: In order to receive grants for all or part of the period from 15 March to 1 September 2021, the staff member must have been wholly or partly on leave on 5 March 2021 and on one or more of the dates from 15 November 2020, 1st, 15th or 31 December 2020. [[4]] The aid is calculated on the basis of the duration of the employee’s employment during the period. Aid may be granted for a maximum of three and a half months for each employee. Individual enterprises and companies must have had a fall in turnover of more than 15 per cent. Paragraph 6(A) fifth paragraph is replaced by the following: The amount of the grant shall be graduated by: [[5]] a. Staff position percentage 5 March b. reduction in degree of permeability; c. the proportion of the period 15 March to 1 September 2021 employed by the employee. II The amendments under I shall enter into force immediately.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e5631	The Progress Party and the Centre Party have notified subsidiary aid to the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e5642	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e5652	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e5666	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-11.ana.ud370e5729	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
