ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e28	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e33	On behalf of Morten Wold, Per-Willy Amundsen, Tor André Johnsen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to improve the care of society's need for the protection and treatment of seriously mentally ill people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e38	The representative, Frank Edvard Sve, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e43	On behalf of the representative Sylvi Listhaug and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the drainage of the mountain range at Åknes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e48	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e64	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e73	This weekend, one of the most important conferences of the year, namely the Glasgow climate conference, starts. It is a long-awaited conference with many important and major themes. In this connection, the Prime Minister was interviewed in the Financial Times, where he stated that the Norwegian Oil Fund should now be a political instrument. It is striking that, by May at the latest, the Stortinges Finance Committee and a unanimous growth were very clear and clear. The Financial Committee then wrote that ‘the objective of the SPU is the highest possible financial return at acceptable risk’. And also that: ‘SPU is not a policy instrument, but developments in society nationally and globally make important premises for the framework within which the Fund operates’.» That's why my question to the Prime Minister is why, in the Financial Times, he launched a shift where the fund is now to be more political, despite the fact that a unanimous increase as late as in May decided that SPU should not be a political instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e85	I agree with Mr Solberg that the meeting in Glasgow is of great importance. The world needs to work together to achieve climate objectives that can prevent global warming above 1.5 degrees. Climate targets need to be reinforced. It must involve society as a whole and all sectors. It is also necessary to inspire the world of finance to look at the long-term objectives and assess climate risk. There we have to take responsibility widely. Norway is prepared for this, and I will attend the conference myself. The state pension fund abroad is the property of the people. Therefore, it is politically in the sense that it is in this room that we decide how to manage our pension fund in the long term. The state pension fund abroad is not a policy instrument to pursue sectoral policies in different areas, pick winners based on policies. There is a high return on acceptable risk driven by the world's most advanced administrators to secure our pensions over time. So it's going to be a fund that Norway knows about, and that reflects our values. That is why we have gradually developed criteria. We have an ethical framework around it, and we update how the fund is structured – in a broad way – over time. That is the underlying political decision. But I didn't tell the Financial Times that it was about a political instrument that we were going to achieve sectoral goals for Norway. I stressed that this fund, which is the world's largest pension fund, is the property of Norwegian people. It's going to last forever. We also have a responsibility to take care of eternity, and must therefore also ensure that our fund is managed in line with the long-term objectives that climate risk also challenges us. That's the thing. I fully support the unanimous decision taken in Stortinget. Norway shall be in the forefront of responsible management for future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e96	I understand that the Prime Minister believes that he has not launched anything new in connection with this, that he has not suggested that we should do anything new. But the Financial Times says that this is a breach of previous policies and what previous governments have said about the fund, so much so that they lift it up as part of the invasion. That means that the signal the Prime Minister has given out of the country is that we now have a new policy on how to use the fund. This is done in relation to climate issues and an interview in a series related to the start-up of the Glasgow meeting. Then my question is: why did the Prime Minister feel the need to create a basis for a new policy from the new government, if not?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e101	Long before the invasion of the Financial Times, I said at a Zero conference that we shouldn't be afraid to say that we have a political framework around our pension fund. That's what I said at the Zero Conference two years ago, and then Prime Minister Solberg, at that time, was very alarmed that this was a new course and was going to put the whole administration in jeopardy. It didn't. There is a stability, long-termity and unanimity in this house with which I think the Prime Minister should be careful – no, sorry, the representative should be careful to... [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e106	These are new roles I understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e111	I knew it had to come at some point. I think the representative from Hordaland, Erna Solberg, should be careful to create an unnecessary disagreement. [[Laughter]] But at the same time, I want to say that if we're not able to see that there's a need to do new things, we go backwards into the future. We took the initiative here, in 2013–2014, that the State pension fund abroad should withdraw from coal. The government was very sceptical about that. It was finally done, and it was a wise decision. Now I'm talking about the importance of having a long-term perspective to deal with climate risk. That's also wise and correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e118	There will be follow-up questions – first Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e123	I then understand that the Prime Minister did not have an ambition to signal to the outside world that it was a new policy. But he won't answer why he just felt like starting this in an interview in the Financial Times, so that they and the rest of the world see this as a new policy. Does that mean that it was simply words, what was said? Then my question is, has the Prime Minister done something to the Financial Times to correct the false impression he has given internationally that we have now politicized the fund in a new way?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e128	No, because the answer was complementary. There was a question from the Financial Times about how the Norwegian Prime Minister looked at the political framework around that fund, and I explained that. It's the property of the Norwegian people. We've hit it in, we've adopted rules, extraction mechanisms and guidelines so that we can actively exercise ownership. That's wise. That's the policy. So it's the representative Solberg who here creates a picture that there's something that radically violates the administration tradition. High returns on acceptable risk are about that we are also able to see what climate means by risk. There's been a sample of people working on, who have made recommendations, and we're going to follow that. And it's an important topic in Glasgow, talking about how the world's financial system is going to meet a challenge from climate change. This discussion wants Norway to participate in, and therefore there is no reason to correct that interview.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e136	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e141	I'm not the one that creates confusion, it's the Prime Minister who has now made another impression internationally, and he's also going to meet internationally. It is true that as Prime Minister, I was concerned that we should not do this, because we are under a constant pressure on the question of why we exclude individual businesses in some countries, why we do not invest anymore, why we do not have a plan, why we do not use the fund more as development aid. All these themes are constantly on our hands. So now, through the new Central Bank Act and the guidelines related to this, we have transferred responsibility to the Norwegian Bank's Governing Council to make assessments of the extent of individual companies, just to create arm's length distances. I'm amazed that the Prime Minister doesn't see that if you express internationally that this is more political, it also means that it increases the stress on it. My question is first and foremost – and he has not answered that – why he needed to say this in his interview with the Financial Times.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e150	That's because I got a question about it, and then I answered what it meant. The Norwegian people own the fund, the Stortinget sets frameworks and long-term goals. I have been a foreign minister for seven years and answered questions about the fund's arrangements. It was possible to stand firm, because it was not the foreign policy fund. It's not now either. Sectoral policy was not to favour a single sector, nor is it now. So it's a very neat relationship that you can answer. At the same time, I believe – again – that this hall, the Stortinget, the people, determines how the fund is impacted. We take that responsibility together. That's what I said to the Financial Times. I have no idea that it has changed the world's perception that this fund is serious, professional and has a long-term perspective. But it must also be in the front line and meet the challenges we face in the short term and in the long term, and that is what the climate challenge is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e159	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e164	This interview was given at the Glasgow conference shortly to begin. That's why it's also put in a context, where it's often seen as using the fund, not to have the greatest possible return, but as a political instrument, for example. towards funding. The main theme of the Glasgow meeting will be climate funding at international level, and in particular how developing countries will meet their needs. It is lacking in the promises made in the Paris Agreement. Then my question to the Prime Minister is: What promises about climate finance will the government make? And how will they anchor this before they deliver it? These are promises that in this case will have to be made over several budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e171	Let me just repeat that we are running the government's policy through the government's platform, through government's budgets and through the various departments. For this reason, foreign policy objectives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and development policy are being pursued in the field of the Minister of Development. There is a need to increase climate finance. There is a target of $100 billion that can help poor countries to make the transition towards renewables, not go through the polluting fossil age. Norway shall participate there. We have the ambition to be able to double that climate finance. It has been announced by Solberg as Prime Minister, I think it was through the VG, also was her intention. We're in the same path on it. We come back, of course, in budgets in Stortinget and also in terms of how it is to be set up. Norway is already at a high level, so an ambition to double is a great ambition, and it underlines that the climate is going to be a very important framework for development policy for many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e182	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e187	So now the prime minister has created confusion about the oil fund. He's not quite clear, but I'm glad the signals are related to funding. But I must say that I think the answer from the Prime Minister now created even more confusion than the answer given in the reply to the change of lines during the debate last week, when the Prime Minister said that he should have a greater role and coordinate all the policies, and now has decentralised it to all the Councils. It is the Prime Minister who has the main role to play in ensuring that we have a good common policy from a government related to climate issues. But my main question goes back to this: when the simplest often is the best thing to make sure that we don't create confusion about, for example. The oil fund, why was there a need to send out a signal to the outside world that this government was doing something different with the fund than previous governments did?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e194	I cannot take responsibility for Solberg's confusion. It's obviously growing and rising, and she's confused after listening to a line change in the Storting and then reading an article in the Financial Times, where even the ingress was alarming. So I can just repeat: I answered a question from the Financial Times. It was a brilliant answer that informed the case, which explained how we should take care of the state pension fund abroad, the largest fund in the world, in a good way, in a long-term way, and we should be able to meet challenges to it. This Prime Minister is going to take responsibility for the whole of politics, but he points out that when we conduct foreign policy, it happens over the domain of foreign policy. Development policies take place over the domain of development policy, and energy policy, stronger investment in sea wind, renewables, etc., there. Then the representative can be sure that the Prime Minister will follow this closely and is a proponent. But we're a team, and that team needs to deliver well. If the international media ask me questions, and that's what they're going to do to Glasgow, they're also going to get answers, which I hope will be reproduced both in the ingress and in the main text.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e203	Hans Andreas Limi – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e208	There might be more than the representative Erna Solberg who's a little confused. By 2014 former Labour Party leader Jens Stoltenberg said about the oil fund: ‘The oil fund shall not be used as a policy instrument, but ethical guidelines underpin the investment, and so it should be.’ This has also been the Biggest's policy in relation to the oil fund, although some parties have wanted to put political leadership at the disposal of the oil fund. What is the danger of this is that there will be questions in the countries and companies where the oil fund is to invest: what is the intention of achieving the best possible return to moderate risk? Does the oil fund have other intentions with its investments? Is not Prime Minister Gahr Støre afraid that his statements, which have obviously made more reactions than he himself will admit, can help to put our pension money into play?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e221	No, I'm not afraid of it. It is quite right that the oil fund is not a political instrument in political matters that the government is running. No, the administration is set aside for competent, senior administrators. Are they political leaders? Well, once we've decided, for example. – against the opinion of the Progress Party – that the oil fund should step down its investments in coal, I would call it a political leadership, but it was thoroughly explored and anchored and finally reached broad consensus. It was the former Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, who carried it out. It's a political leadership. When the oil fund now interprets the society in which it lives and demands its investment on water quality, respect for human rights, labour rights, etc. – and eventually have quite clear views if an enterprise has a high climate risk – then it is a political leadership of the Norwegian community. But it's the fund that makes the decisions. The government has a properly introduced rule-driven arm length distance from it, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e226	Ola Elvesuen – to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e231	The oil fund should not be a political instrument, but the oil fund of its size has definitely – and we have definitely – an interest in the world achieving its climate goals. It is clear that the investment of the oil fund is contributing to this, and it is in the long-term interest of the oil fund that we are achieving these objectives. There are many large funds that now aim to ensure that the portfolio is in line with the 1.5 degree target and the climate objectives we have, among other things. the UN-sanctioned Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance, where such objectives have been set. When the fund announcement comes to spring, the climate will be a large part of it. My question is: is the Prime Minister open that the oil fund should be part of the Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance association and set a target that its portfolio should be in line with the 1.5 degree target and that we should achieve it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e240	We have a good tradition of talking about such things in this fund announcement, and it's natural that we talk about current issues like this. I think it will be an important topic in Glasgow, where climate finance, as the representative knows from his previous work, becomes a very central topic. Let me say it this way: I am concerned that the fund we have, which is the largest in the world, is in line with its time – that it should manage financial risk, for which it has many instruments, and that it should be able to deal with climate risk, which is an important theme in the future, in the short term and also in the long term. The fact that the world has set an objective of achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement is something that is caught up in our pension fund, when they make their investments, stress tests their investments, and through the impact of ownership, assessments of whether the companies they have invested in are on the right track. If they are not, the fund has shown the ability to influence both through ownership and, in some cases, by sovereign decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e247	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e252	These are very difficult times for many economics. Current bills are increasing and — at least for a few days — high in record terms. A lot of people are worried about getting these to maturity. Nevertheless, this government chooses to continue the special policy of taking precious force from land and sending out to platforms, which will in the long run make this even worse. Diesel and petrol prices are sky-high, and the question is whether they will be even higher if the tax increases that the previous government introduced continue. Food prices are strongly increasing. The commodity prices internationally are sky-high, and there is also fear of fertilizer access as we are gradually entering a new spring zone. At the top of this is the interest on the way up. Many economists are now concerned about the economy of ordinary people, and in the Poor House they report that they are worried that there will be more people who will have to resort to help from there. We're also approaching Christmas, with all the challenges it'll give. At the same time as the wallets for ordinary people are bleeding, the state spends money – through oil and gas and through taxes and VAT. Equinor, today reporting a huge profit for the third quarter, over 80 billion. kr, pays the State with record tax. Is the Prime Minister concerned about the economy of ordinary people? What does the government intend to do to facilitate the situation for ordinary people now that expenditure is increasing in all areas, giving challenges to many families and individuals?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e271	Overall, this is a government for ordinary people, the interests of ordinary people, and after eight years when the representative Sylvi Listhaug and her party have been in charge in Norway, it is time to reverse developments: more fair distribution, more well-being available to ordinary people, on which the wallet should not determine the quality depending on where you live, and what you earn. That shift is absolutely necessary. Yeah, I'm worried about what's now happening to many people around the world, because this is a phenomenon that goes beyond Norway. Increased prices of power, increased prices of food and increased prices of minerals affect jobs across a wide range of areas. It's one of the biggest drivers in the direction of conflict and inequality that we see in the world today. The government responded the day after the decision of the Storting last week to increase housing support and send a clear signal to the municipalities to look it up against the calculation of social assistance, so that those who are most severely affected can be rescued. It's important, and we're going to follow the situation closely. In our supplementary budget number, we will also look at several aspects that we can do something about when it comes to both electricity and fuel expenditure. I am not going to advance decisions about it now, but we believe it is right that the polluter should pay. We aim to increase the CO 2 tax to NOK 2000 by 2030, but we want compensatory measures, just to see the situation for ordinary people. That is exactly why we prioritise the municipal economy. That is precisely why we do not give priority to the big cuts that the representative, Mr Listhaug, makes every time it is a budget, to those who have the most. Therefore, they will receive less than NOK 750,000 in income tax cuts and a better economy. Those who have their children in kindergarten will get cheaper kindergarten. We're going to reduce the price of SFO. We're going to put in a whole series of measures to make everyday life more robust for ordinary people to meet the kind of turbulence that's coming, and also give them dignity and freedom of action in their own lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e287	The Prime Minister was inside the pandemic. Then we sat here in this room and adopted crisis packages of billions of dollars to help in the extraordinary situation, which has made Norway pretty good out of it. This is a global situation, but it's still here in this room that we can take care of ordinary people in Norway. Now a crisis package is needed for ordinary people. Instead of making even more dependent on public assistance, there is the possibility that the state will allow people to keep more of their own money and deal with their own incomes. Does the Prime Minister agree that it is necessary to allow people to retain more of their own income, so that more people can live on their own income instead of having to accept public assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e294	I think it has to be a goal that people can manage, that they have a whole, steady position with a salary to cover for themselves and theirs, and that they can face situations that change. Prices go up and down, now they go up to important conditions. Then it has to be a goal. That's why this government's goal is to be left with more of its own income for those who have low incomes, by making cuts in tax there. Then they of us with high incomes, like the representative and me, have to pay something more. Then it cannot be a priority for us, in all budgetary contexts, to cut taxes on wealth for them at the top. Then there has to be a fair social distribution of it. Then it must be that people are equipped to send their children to kindergarten without experiencing the unnatural burden of the economy, and that in a wide range of areas we have a welfare state that stands up. That welfare country must have income. That is why I am in favour of stability by the fact that the welfare state is well-funded, and that there are policies that give priority to ordinary people getting out of it in a fair way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e301	There will be follow-up questions – first Sylvi Listhaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e306	The problem is that charges only hit those who have the least, bang hard. The fact that there are sky-high expenses now, with the VAT on top, makes the state serve and ordinary people bleed. That is why, in such a crisis package, it is necessary to reduce diesel and petrol taxes, because we see that this is an important cost item for very many common people. Therefore, it is important not only to take a few cents on the electricity charge now, but actually to remove it completely. If this is to be added to the power bill, you also have to remove the VAT, which is 25 pst. by the bill, which goes straight into the state treasury. That's why, in the situation we're in now, where extraordinary increases in food prices are being warned, we have to consider reducing food prices. It can also have an impact on border trade and then secure jobs in Norway. Will the Prime Minister take the initiative in a crisis package to meet the challenges of ordinary people with significantly increasing prices of a number of vital products and reduce the charges for ordinary people?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e314	This Prime Minister and the Government will present a budget which puts ordinary people first, which will ensure that they get more of their work back, which will ensure that the services that are important to them in everyday life related to health, well-being and care are available. It's a work we're working on right now. The representative represents a party that has been in front of budgets for eight years, which has increased the fees for ordinary people, turned them up. Now, a few weeks after a government change, they have to be shut down. It is tempting to reflect on: if this package is to be implemented, by removing VAT and reducing taxes, when do prices evolve to reintroduce them? Here we must have two thoughts in our head at once. We need to secure income for this welfare state, and then we need to distribute it fairly. The key is in both the tax and tax framework, which should be more equitable. Then we're going to look at fuel taxes, we're going to look at taxes that hit ordinary people – because taxes don't hit socially equally – and then we're going to have a redistributive, active welfare state that gives ordinary people security in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e321	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e326	The Progress Party has helped to reduce taxes by 37 billion. kr. It doesn't help to blame the Progress Party now, in the extraordinary situation we're in. What people are wondering about is what the Prime Minister, the Workers' Party and the Senter Party will do, but unfortunately we don't get any answers – except that we know that we have to do something about housing support. So it's going to hit 66 000 households. We are 2.5 million households in this country. In other words, most people don't want any pleasure in this. Neither do the students want any joy from it. I have to say that it makes the impression when you see students who wrap themselves up in dunes, who freeze, and who sit and try to study at the same time as they hack teeth. Many are concerned that they are not able to pay their bill. Therefore, I wonder: Will the Prime Minister take initiatives to help students cope with the exceptional situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e333	It might be useful to do that, to look at groups that are particularly vulnerable. However, the measures of the representative, Mr Listhaug, should apply across society. It will bring relief to those who have much, it will bring relief to many people who can face this crisis. It's socially very little accurate. We are looking for arrangements that make those who are now particularly affected. We have opportunities to do that. We've already shown it through what's happening with housing, the signal of social assistance. We're going to strengthen the municipal economy, which enables the municipalities to follow up. They're tighter and closer. Here we must be focused on assisting those who are particularly affected, not weakening in general – in line with what is now the Progress Party – the state's ability to have a strong and good, redistributive welfare state.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e340	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e345	What the Progress Party wants is to strengthen the ability of people to act themselves, without state alms. What Prime Minister Støre wants to add is help a few – 66 000 households – and then he will look at the students. Who else is it that you're going to look at? Most common families have two pieces that go to work, get their income and things to pay their bills in a normal situation, but as economists say, there are very many common families that have little to go on. These are the ones that are now in a very demanding situation, with the Christmas trade for the door and all the expectations it brings. Therefore, these narrow measures that the Prime Minister has outlined will not take many, and that is why I wonder: what should be done for ordinary people? Are there other groups than students and those who receive housing you're going to help, or is that where it stops?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e350	We say in the Hurdal platform that we want to reduce charges that affect ordinary people. We'll get back to November 8th, when the supplementary proposition comes, where we'll show you how to do it. In addition, I don't want to talk down that we're doing this with housing, that we're providing a better framework for social assistance that hits those who are the most vulnerable. I want to go back to what is the distribution profile of this government's policy, as opposed to the representative's. The tax cuts the representative has contributed to have gone to them with the most. It has not taken those who have been exposed. We want to strengthen the economy of those who have come second over these years. We want to make the important welfare services that provide them with security in everyday life, more accessible, better quality and more independent of their own wallet. We want to stop privatisation. There are important measures to ensure common people and to ensure their safety in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e357	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e362	High costs and electricity prices hit many, and increased housing support is important. There may also be other groups that need housing support. Otherwise I would like to remind you, even in the light of the previous questions, that the most important thing about environmental taxes is that they work and have an effect, and that effect cannot be zeroed out. We all need that – even ordinary people. The pandemic continues to have a major negative impact, for example: in public transport, where it appears that many have not responded to this offer, that there are not as many as there are now travelling by public transport as before the pandemic. Many public companies report large cuts in the offer after Christmas if there is no increased support from the state. Then my question becomes: Will the Prime Minister make sure that the collective offer is as good for the next year as it has been now, and that is held up also through the pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e371	The representative is right that this is a concern for the county councils around, who have experienced that people have been away from the collective services, and that when the pandemic is now on its way back, the same number does not come back. It presents a financial challenge. This is one of the questions we are now considering in dialogue with the states. We'll get back to whether there'll be specific measures related to it, but this too has something to do with the economy we adopt for municipalities and counties, and the freedom of action they get to face this situation. We are concerned that the collective offer should come up quickly. I don't think it's possible to guarantee that through a political action it comes up at the same level as it was before the pandemic, regardless of what becomes the customer base, but it's important to follow closely, so that there won't be lasting damage to the collective offer that's developed in many places, among other things. Here in this city.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e378	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e384	On Sunday, the Glasgow climate summit begins. I've also read the Financial Times, but I hung myself up in a slightly different part of the interview, because the Prime Minister said – and this is my translation, but I think it kind of hits: if we were to shut down production on a Norwegian base from one day to the next, it would mean the end of the industrial shift needed to succeed in achieving carbon neutrality. I think it's a bit of a shame that the Prime Minister uses the very rare opportunity to speak in one of the world's largest newspapers to actually construct a digger strawman, because no one wants such a rapid shutdown of all production on Norwegian pedestal. What we are discussing in Norwegian policy is whether to look for new fossil energy, where production will start 10–15 years into the future. The Prime Minister often repeats this slogan, develops, does not liquidate, but it is also a strawman, because no one wants to wind up the industry. What we're discussing is how to best develop it. Because what we don't want more exploration is that we're going to spend a lot of resources looking for fossil energy, it won't pay to take up in a world that's succeeding in the fight against the climate crisis, and that too much investment in oil in the next few years is going to make sure that we don't get started quickly enough with the new green tasks that the same industry will live on in the future. They are the ones who are going to secure and create good LO jobs in the industry. On a measurement in VG on Monday, 34 pst says. of the Workers' Party's own constituencies that they wish to stop the search for oil and gas in new areas. Then my question is: why does the Prime Minister discuss with strawmen instead of meeting the arguments that are more and more common in Norway, namely that looking for more fossil energy is both bad climate policy and risky industrial policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e395	The decision on search activity on Norwegian pedestal shall be taken by the government and shall do so when it assesses a whole set of criteria. It is linked to the financial risk for the country, as well as climate and environmental conditions that are included, in addition to the fact that companies know that it is moving in a renewable direction and that the demand for fossil energy resources is falling over time. My point was to illustrate quite briefly that the world is going to need oil and gas for years to come, also as part of the shift that is. The challenge we are facing with the high energy prices in Europe is due, among other things, to: that there is a very, very vulnerable situation because the renewable sources that are on their way up are more vulnerable if there is no wind, and if there is a shortage of solar power. I believe it is important for Norway to demonstrate to those who are our customers and partners that Norway is a stable supplier. But Norway is also a driver of the change we are talking about here, because what is going to change this is not that Norway on the supply side shuts down, but that on the demand side there are expectations of renewable energy and that it exists. It must then be developed, and Norway has a major industrial potential, for example. sea wind and hydrogen. A very important criterion for this is that we succeed in capturing and storing CO 2. If we succeed in catching and storing, the Norwegian gas may also benefit from a slightly longer perspective. So that's what we have to figure out. First of all, it is also an important message in Glasgow that the industrial transition we are about to create the new power, which comes from renewable sources, is an industrial process. And also that the transitions that must take place in industry must have economics in order to be able to bear. There can be Norway as a proponent. We must contribute to this, both financially and industrially.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e409	If we are to achieve industrial change, climate policy and oil policy must be linked, and then we have to take into account how we believe the demand side will develop, when we are going to discuss the extent to which we are going to contribute. I noticed that the Prime Minister of Scotland, Nicola Sturgeon, who is in a very similar situation as Prime Minister Gahr Støre, with an economy heavily dependent on oil and gas and an industry heavily dependent on it, said the following in an interview on the occasion Glasgow: that for countries like theirs, with large remaining resources of oil and gas, it is tempting to tell themselves and others that, based on both economic and energy, one must continue to search for and extract oil and gas for the last possible moment. It will, she says, in her view be fundamentally wrong, and there will be an approach that cannot be justified in the face of the climate crisis, nor will it be justified financially. Does the Prime Minister think that the Scottish government wants to liquidate and not develop Scottish industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e418	No, and I fully agree with the Prime Minister. This government hasn't written anywhere that we're going to drive to the last possible moment. We have probably, after estimates from the Oil Directorate, used up over half of the identified resources that are. I have not spoken in that direction at all. I say again, the decisions to make about exploration and activity, the government will take on the basis of a thorough review. We've had 25 open laps. The question and the manner in which it should be a 26th should be considered by the government. The scope of new activity related to existing infrastructure and matured areas, known as TFO rounds, has to be assessed by the government. And it has to be assessed against the considerations we're talking about here. The important thing is to do this in parallel with having an active industrial policy to develop the new renewable industries, and what Norway is going to need – about electricity prices – is more renewable energy. We have a major challenge, and then the representative's party and my party and others must be willing to look at hydropower, wind on land and wind at sea. These are the major challenges Norway has to face in order to gain more power.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e427	There will be follow-up questions – first the Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e432	It's absolutely right that if we're going to bring down fossil energy quickly enough, it has to be solved on the demand side. But we must then pursue a policy in Norway that takes into account that the world can actually achieve the climate goals we work for. The UN Programme Area for the Environment, UNEP, has published a report in connection with the Glasgow meeting showing that 15 of the world’s largest fossil energy producer countries, including Norway, have plans for a production level of 110 pst in 2030. above that compatible with the 1,5 degree target. In the case of oil and gas, 57 and 71 pst respectively. over. Yesterday, the United Nations issued a report that shows that the world is not capable of reaching the 1.5-degree target, nor of reaching 2 degrees, but is heading towards 2.7-degree heating. Does the Prime Minister agree that all the oil and gas now found and planned to be produced in the world cannot be burned?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e441	It seems likely that all the oil and gas found cannot be burned. Let me say this: we're going to Glasgow to contribute there through the days this conference lasts, to commitments, policies, goals and follow-up that can reach the 1.5 degree goal. It's a big collective responsibility. There is movement in some of the largest countries. It's late, but it's on its way. In meeting with the Russian Foreign Minister yesterday, I heard notes saying something about Russia's view of this which we have never heard before. The credibility of that is measured when we get to the big conferences, and China the same thing. Norway shall be a driving force behind it. So Norway has not only a responsibility here, but a great opportunity, in my opinion, if we have the economy of the companies and the economy in the country to drive forward some of the technological solutions that can cut Norway's emissions, but that can also help cut global emissions. For the technologies we know about, the world is going to need.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e450	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e455	I think that was a good answer, because it's just like the brutal mathematics in the climate crisis, is that there's already more fossil energy in the world, also more oil and gas, than what we can burn if we're going to avoid catastrophic global warming. This is the big paradox that we have to solve in Norwegian policy in the next few years: either we manage to sell all the oil we have in stock and everything we have to look for – but the precondition for that will be a world that will not succeed in achieving the climate goals – or we succeed in a climate policy that prevents so much oil from burning that the question immediately arises as to whether it is profitable and wise to continue looking for more fossil energy. At least I think it must be a good start that the government is honest and clear that there is a potential large spat for Norway here. Does the Prime Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e462	I'm not dealing with jokes, I'm dealing with what we're going to do, being profitable and wise. I think that is a good starting point from the representative Lysbakken, whom I agree with. The price picture here is difficult to stand by now and say something about – those who have guessed about it have often been wrong. But it's assumed, I see in some calculations, that what we're going to see beyond now is that the oil price will fall to $35, and that will trigger that we're getting renewable energy. Right now, the oil price is much higher than that, and it's because of some of this shift that's going on in Europe, which is not even. The coal has not been replaced and coal is still attractive. So there's a big transformation that's going to happen, and what's in the UN reports and the IEA reports, is also that it's urgent to develop the new forms of energy, the new technologies and the new industries, so that the demand side can turn there. Norway wants to contribute to this. It may be a bit charismatic to say that this will end in Norway from day to day, but it is to show that where we are today, Norway – as a democratic and predictable country – is an important supplier of energy to Europe, and Europe should know that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e471	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e477	Then we are still in the situation that if we are to achieve the climate targets, keep the heating down to 1.5 degrees – and also below 2 degrees – significant amounts of fossil energy that are currently planned to be produced cannot be burned. So all countries are now increasing their search, their production, also considering that it would be a problem if there are other countries that are being sold, for example. the last oil. Producer countries have to start talking at some point about how to manage this process. Is it appropriate for the government to initiate a process with other oil producers in order to discuss how to control that deceleration, so that one does not look for – and put in production – more oil and gas than what is actually possible to sell within climate targets?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e484	This will be a theme in Glasgow: What is the energy picture ahead, what course do we set, what obligations do states take on? Following those commitments, we have a rather strong dynamic in the direction of renewables, and then we are on the way in a gradual transition away from fossils. Norway will falsify our views in the context where we meet other countries – Glasgow is one of them – and where we meet other energy producers, it is also natural to discuss this. This also applies to the EU, which is the political context of very many of our main buyers, especially of gas. In this respect, the government believes that, in the context of this objective, the EU has ‘Fit for 55’, i.e. to reach 55 pst. reduction – Norway can play a greater role than we do today, by sitting down and looking at how our technologies, what we deliver, our fishing and storage capacity, can play a greater role.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e489	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e494	The high power prices worry a lot. The debt collection agencies expect a race of bills for debt collection. The size has decided on housing and social assistance, so some will get help with the electricity bills, but it doesn't help everyone who needs it. The power crisis is going to last for years. NVE forecasts as known higher and more unstable power prices for many years to come. The Labour Party, as we know, went with the citizens to subdue Norway Acer and thus connected us more closely to the EU electricity market. The consequences of the increasing number of export cables are becoming increasingly apparent, not least with the opening of North Link to Germany in the summer that marked higher electricity prices in South Norway. Now the North Sea Link cable to England is also on the move. A solution that at the same time will ensure that we do not waste the current is to introduce a two-price system in which we ensure reasonable electricity for normal consumption, while unnecessary luxury consumption costs more. This can be done by costing electricity consumption over a certain level per year, while the price of electricity up to that limit is reasonable. Will the Workers' Party support such a scheme, which will ensure reasonable flow to ordinary people, while luxury consumption costs more? Or will the Workers' Party continue with today's market-driven power prices, where the power companies win, while ordinary people lose?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e503	Norway is connected to countries around it with a transfer capacity that I believe in sum has served Norway well. The times we have challenges with power availability, we get to fill up from outside, and we contribute to a mutual relationship. I don't think we should do that. We're going to go through and understand the effects of this. That's why this government has said not to build new foreign tables, we've said that there should be state control over the cables that are, and we're going to evaluate the consequences of the cables that are built. We're going to have the socio-economic understanding of this. The main measure to prevent persistently high electricity prices in Norway is to build more capacity for power. It has not been done overnight, but these decisions must be made. We want an overall plan for wind on land, wind at sea and how we manage and strengthen the capacity of our hydropower. It is important for Norwegian industry, which has built up a position as a power-processing industry. We want to strengthen it. Of course, this is also important for Norwegian households. This two-price system that Red is talking about, we haven't fixed the program or gone in for it. I've seen it figured out on previous occasions. It's very bureaucratic, and there are very great opportunities to bypass the system. You can have a house where you have one number in the basement and one in the main floor – and that's one that doesn't have luxury consumption. So you can split up the luxury consumption so it becomes different. I don't think that's the strategy that hits. I think we have to be ready to stand up for those who are particularly hit when these prices are rising, and we have had a decision on it related to the housing aid. We need to strengthen the local economy, so that they can follow up with social assistance. But first and foremost, as a country, we need to develop, build and transport more power, renewable power, in our country, as part of the green shift, climate commitments, but also for us as consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e514	This is essentially about the will for political governance over our legacy silver, that is, over the flow. I hear these framework frights about more bureaucracy, which comes from the right in particular, when we propose two-price systems. But today, most people have got the red tape job in jail, i.e. with a power market where there are hundreds of electricity and network leases, where it's too easy to go wrong, sour into an agreement with little writing and with very many costly extra services. So we think it might be an advantage that the state takes care of the bureaucracy, and that we facilitate people most for the job of bureaucracy that is coming today as a result of a liberalized, market-liberalist power market. Does Gahr Støre see that it is an advantage for the government to take care of that job, and that then it is possible to avoid consumers having to take the kind of job they do today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e523	I want to say that if the state can help clean up the relationship with a bunch of providers to ordinary people, I'm willing to look at it. It has something to do with consumer rights and consumer policy to make it transparent and accessible to people, so I think that is an important topic. So we say that a market-liberalist system, i.e. the power industry in Norway, is quite politically run down. It is important political decisions that underpin the development of our power resources. There are major, demanding political issues about building wind power. We have issues that are now up to date, which show some of the challenges there, and which require political decisions. So we need more power, and there's the political decision that's going to happen. Then, in this context, the state will have to take greater responsibility in the future. I just don't believe that the two-price system Red is a convincing answer to the challenge we have. If it turns out that it was a very good answer, we'll of course evaluate it, but what I've seen of material about it until now is not convincing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e530	There will be follow-up questions – first the Bears of the Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e535	Electricity prices are market driven, and they are increasing as each new cable is built, which will result in more exports of electricity from Norway. The previous government agreed with both Germany and England to connect us more closely with both NorthLink and North Sea Link, and in the agreement they have signed, they write that they do not want to slow the export of electricity, nor in periods when there is a high electricity price because there is little access in the market. This is signed by the previous government. It is therefore necessary to have full exports of electricity from Norway during a period of galloping electricity prices, low water in the warehouses and no obstacles to securing cheap power for Norwegian residents and industry and avoiding power shocks. Will the Prime Minister stick to these agreements that have been concluded by the Right, if there is no restriction on the export of electricity, or will he review the agreements in order to safeguard Norwegian interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e540	It ensures Norwegian interests to respect the agreements we have concluded. I just want to say that there have also been cases where Norway has had the pleasure of being able to import cheap power. It happens part of the day now, too, from the countries around us, so one side of the story that the representative Moxnes shares here, doesn't give a picture of the whole. But there are several questions we need to look into now, with the situation that is both force and price, such as.What is the situation of the level in our magazines? Do we go into periods where that level is too low? It's very low in some contexts now. We are also concerned about understanding the broader context of how our export/import relationship works. This has been a reform that I believe has served the Nordic region well since the 1990s, when it was introduced, and this way of cooperating between countries also needs Europe to do. They are far behind, with poor exchange between countries. And then Norway will continue to facilitate the care of our interests: access to power and the production of power.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e547	Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e553	There's been a lot of rounds in the Great Britain about NorthConnect. The Workers' Party has not previously supported the Redt's proposal to stop the new export cable to Scotland, which is then not owned by Statnett. Now the concession request for NorthConnect is actually waiting in the department, and the government can – if they wish – press the button that approves another new export cable for Norwegian electricity, which will drive prices up even more, to the detriment of both Norwegian and Norwegian industry. Can we now get a guarantee from the Prime Minister, both to us, to the industry and to Norwegian power customers, that the NorthConnect application is rejected by this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e560	Without looking up, let me still refer to what we write in the Hurdal platform, that new foreign connections should not be built during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e565	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e570	Last week we talked a lot about ordinary people in this room. I wonder if a fundamental distinction between ordinary people and not ordinary people is who reads the Financial Times. At least I thought that instead I would start with an article from the VG in today's Question Time. There's Thorbjørn Jagland's biography mentioned. It's called "An Year of Peace and Distress". There the former leader of the Nobel Committee describes that he experienced the pressure of the then Foreign Minister, current Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre, not to give the Peace Prize to the human rights champion Liu Xiaobo. Igland writes that Gahr Støre during a reception in Oslo City Hall laid his arm around Jagland and said: You have not intended to destroy our relationship with this great country – with reference to China. Furthermore, Igland writes that during the high-level week of the UN General Assembly, he met Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre at that time, and that the Minister of Foreign Affairs used the chance to tell that negotiations between Norway and China on a free trade agreement would stop if the peace price went to a Chinese dissident. I have no intention of making myself a judge over who speaks the truth in this discussion, but what I am interested in is what kind of attitude Jonas Gahr Støre and the government have toward the Norwegian Nobel Committee and what kind of role the government has in influencing the award of the Nobel Peace Prize. I believe that in view of this, we need an assurance from the Prime Minister that the government will refrain from any attempt to exert political pressure against the Nobel Committee with a view to influencing the award of the Nobel Peace Prize.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e581	I think it is wise for the representative not to judge that case. I would like to reject the fact that I have put pressure on the Nobel Committee in some context. I worked on international affairs for nine years in the Prime Minister's office. There was a regular flow of people who came to the Prime Minister's office from abroad, who ran a campaign for some candidacy for the Nobel Peace Prize. I remember that the feedback – the answer – was constantly that it is an independent committee that strictly safeguards its independence. The members make their decisions in a closed room. This is the case with the Norwegian authorities, so there is no way of being influenced by the Norwegian Government. Nor have I experienced or experienced that Norwegian governments have actively influenced the Nobel Committee. We know it has high integrity, it makes its decisions and has experienced people who follow it. So it's a matter of course also for this government. We have had a review here in Stortinget about the principle of who sits in the Nobel Committee – it has been necessary in recent years – and I think the parties have followed it in a good way. There are people now sitting there with high integrity, they're appointed from the parties, and we spend time abroad explaining that it doesn't mean they're talking for the parties, even though they've had different responsibilities in previous contexts. The world understands this. There are some countries that won't understand it, because it's part of their authoritarian rhetoric that they interpret that any relationship that comes out of a state is state controlled. It's not like that in Norway. It should not be like this in Norway. That's why I think the Nordics most, and also the government, are proud that we have what we call the world's most famous prize, the Nobel Peace Prize. It is distributed entirely on the basis of Alfred Nobel's will, by a committee that takes that decision, and of course without the influence of a government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e592	I am pleased that the Prime Minister is so clear, both in terms of his past actions, and in terms of the government's attitude towards the Nobel Committee and its independence. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that Liu Xiaobo received that price created challenges in the relationship between Norway and China. Since then, there is probably also quite a broad consensus that the human rights situation and the way China acts in many places gives great cause for concern. My question to Jonas Gahr Støre is: in the Hurdal platform, there are relatively general wordings in terms of cooperation with China in the years to come. It has been working on a free trade agreement over very many years, and my question is what the government of Støre intends to do with that free trade agreement. My opinion is that now is not the time to conclude a free trade agreement with China because of the very challenging situation, among other things. in Hong Kong, Taiwan and a number of other countries. What does the Prime Minister think of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e599	Up until two weeks ago, Iselin Nybø, the representative, was Minister for Industry and was responsible for this. I will look into the status of work on the Free Trade Agreement, for which that government has been responsible for eight years. The representative's party has been responsible for it in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but the government that she has been a part of and supported has been working on this for eight years. It was the government of Solberg that signed an agreement with China – which continued the relationship after the years of reduced contact – and that has taken responsibility for further work on a free trade agreement. So I want to know well where we are in relation to that agreement, what is the status and content of it. I have not been able to do that in the two weeks I have been in the job. In general, however, Norway is concerned that we should have a regulatory framework around international trade. It goes through the WTO, and it goes through international agreements, and we conclude whether we believe it serves Norwegian interests and is in line with Norwegian values.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e604	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e609	Collective societies have lost huge revenues under the corona pandemic, and the Prime Minister has expressed a very general opinion on the government's position on this in the debate for the time being. The number of passengers of the routes four weeks after reopening shows a decrease of 22 pst. compared to the same period in 2019 and a preliminary loss of EUR 1,2 billion. kr. Collective societies across the country report failure of ticket revenue, which can lead to both large cuts in the collective offer and increased ticket prices if government does not intervene. This is a notified disaster for public transport. We risk putting back ten years on environmentally friendly transport and making it more difficult and expensive for our fellow people to choose environmentally friendly in their everyday lives. The counties and cities have been clearly identified in the order that they wish to continue the state compensation that has so far been, at least out of the first half of 2022. What is the government's position on continuing this state compensation scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e618	I agree with much of the description given by the representative, and I said in a previous answer that this is a serious setback for public transport that we have every interest in being able to rectify. There are two types of challenges here. It is the economic situation of these companies, of the type of route in the city in which the representative and I live, and how they can manage to move on without being permanently damaged by the loss of income. This is the government aware of. There has been compensation, as the representative points out, and we share the ambition that companies can come back to a good level of collective offerings. The big challenge is to get people back to choosing collectively. Here's a couple of challenges. One is related to whether people are going to travel less because there is becoming more home office in the daytime. The other is whether people have started to choose other modes of transport, such as: Car, and it takes time to get back to the habit of public transport. We have these questions for consideration. It is both a question of how we prioritise municipalities and counties in the budget – we come back to that – and a question of the arrangements that have been and the duration of them. But the government has this in mind and will come back when we have concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e629	I would like to thank you for your answer and remind you that the Greens are now also elected from Akershus. The county councils are largely trapped with this problem, and they are largely governed by a red-green majority. They have fought a fight against the Solberg government throughout the pandemic to continue this compensation system, and we have noticed that the government of Solberg has every time – albeit after long discussions – supplied the county councils with the needs. How does the Prime Minister see that the government will ensure that public companies will be able to maintain the route offer and adapt the offer to new travel habits if the State compensation scheme is not passed on in the first half of 2022?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e637	I repeat, we're coming back to this. I can't give a concrete answer to that right now. During the pandemic, we have also been concerned that the measures will last for as long as the crisis lasts. We're on our way out of the pandemic. Important measures that have been in the crisis mechanisms, pandemic measures, are gradually being phased out. I see clearly that it is demanding to know when to wind up in the various areas, and this is a field that is particularly demanding. The offer to be continued must also be consistent with the passenger base, the people travelling and the way they travel. But as I said, we have this in mind and come back to Stortinget with an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e646	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e651	The coronary apnea still characterizes us. Although we're over in a normal everyday life and can call society too open again, there are still some who live with great limitations. Last day — at least yesterday — 1,144 new coronary infections were recorded in Norway, and there are more than twice as many as at the same time last week. At the same time, we could read in the evening post yesterday that the vaccination in Norway has almost stopped, and that there are nearly half a million adult Northmen who are still unvaccinated. According to the weekly report for week 41 of the Swedish Institute of Public Health, the number of new hospital admissions has remained relatively stable over the past four weeks, but the FHI reports that there is uncertainty about the development over the rest of the autumn and winter. We see that the infection does not let go of the roof. 78 municipalities, according to the VG overview, have a rising trend. On Thursday last week, the representative Erna Solberg asked the Prime Minister to explain how the government will deal with the pandemic in the future, and whether the government will come to Stortinget and inform us about the situation. Then the Prime Minister replied that something must have happened that gives cause for concern when you now want a briefing from the Prime Minister in Stortinget. I note that the government has now called in to the press conference tomorrow about the Corona situation. We know that it is demanding for health professionals, for relatives, for the population — and for the government — to deal with the uncertainty that a pandemic brings with it. I have recorded that the government that has joined has informed the population about government policies in many areas, but not the pandemic management. What is this government's priority in dealing with the pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e658	Let me just say first that the Minister of Health has contacted the Committee, I think the representative knows that, and a meeting has been agreed on 9 November with the Committee on a full review there. The Committee has agreed, I think the date has been agreed, and tomorrow the Minister of Health will have a press conference where she will go through how the government is now dealing with the matter. In short, we are left in a normal situation of increased preparedness. This means that we have come to the conclusion that many of the measures are being abandoned, but it is being followed very closely. Clearly, there is reason for concern that half a million Northmen are not fully vaccinated. Increasing it is something that is followed up in many contexts, that people take both first and second doses. The reason why national measures are less relevant and now required is that they become less accurate when most of us are vaccinated. As a result, local development of infection has been focussed on, and is now particularly increasing in the north, where action is also taken. So the lines are the ones we've been on this fall, that we've come into a situation where, of course, we follow the infection numbers, but don't get as worried about the infection numbers now as we did six months ago, because we're looking at insertions and respirator treatment. I received a full review from the health authorities yesterday showing that hospitalisations, respiratory treatment, etc. is at a level which does not give rise to general measures. However, local measures, the way in which the TISK strategy is to be further developed, the level at which it is to be developed, and the perception of other measures that need to be taken locally, are very closely followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e671	I thank you for your answer. It is true that the Health Committee has been offered this kind of orientation, but it will not be a substitute for keeping the whole Stortinget informed about the government's future strategy in this area. There is reason to be vigilant when we see that the infection may be on its way up again, and when the health authorities in their weekly report consider that there is uncertainty about the development of the crop. With a new government and an uncertain infectious situation, in which we now stand, I would like to ask the Prime Minister again: will the Prime Minister give an account of the Government's Korona Strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e680	If this is necessary in order to clarify Norway’s policy regarding the Korona, there is something the Prime Minister will consider, but I do not feel that there is an uncertainty about it. I feel that this is ongoing information from the health authorities. We also need to shift to a more normal level of information activities. The government is not required to have one to two press conferences a week when the picture is as it is today. We're in a normal situation of increased preparedness, and it's about repeating and stressing what that means. That means that the front line is still the municipalities. We have to follow up the municipalities and make sure they have resources and that they have follow-up, and of course be vigilant if measures are needed that go beyond that. We will ensure that the population is kept informed, we will have occasion to do so tomorrow when the Minister of Health will have his press conference with the Institute of Public Health and the Directorate of Health, and of course also the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e687	There will be follow-up questions – first Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e692	The priority of the previous government was to put children and young people first when action needs to be taken, secure jobs and then take care of the rest of society. It is important for the Storting to know what priority the new government is doing. We are all concerned that the measures taken so far have been to reduce the risk of infection and to protect as much as possible the situation of children and young people. As I said, the first priority of the Solberg government was to care for children and young people all the way. Will it still be this way for the Prime Minister's government? How will the government ensure that children and young people get the most presence at school, as we know is extremely important for children?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e699	This was not the priority of the government of Solberg alone. Children and young people first we've been busy all along. And we've called for more measures in the period of the pandemic. Of course, children and young people and jobs have been important. I am now concerned that those who are particularly vulnerable, those who have underlying diseases, and who experience that the vaccine may not provide the coverage it will provide, now get an offer for a third dose, and that they get a follow-up. There is a group of people in our country who carried a very heavy burden through the pandemic because they had lost services and offered the time it was shut-down and they did not get follow-up and help. There is also a part in the field of mental health that comes vulnerable out of the pandemic, which we will also follow up and focus on in the future. When it comes to children and young people going to school, and the schools are prepared: I think the schools have delivered impressively under the demanding circumstances that have existed, and of course we will follow them up in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e708	Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e713	The Prime Minister now mentioned the possibility of a third vaccination. I mentioned it in my main question, and the Prime Minister also confirmed the challenge that we still have a lot of unvaccinated people. What's the government's plan to speed up the vaccination again?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e719	It's voluntary vaccination, and I think that's the right line. It has great consequences not to have it. As we learn more about who is not vaccinated, we need to have a good press for information directed at those groups. We are now beginning to know some of the characteristics of the unvaccinated part of the population. What is needed to achieve them may be linked to culture, language and accessibility in the context of health care. Then the strategy is general information: the vaccine protects, the vaccine allows for opening up society and making it available to people in the life situation they are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e724	The oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e738	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 12, from the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde to the Minister for Climate and Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance who is directing him. The question was, at the request of the Minister of Finance, moved and answered in response to question 2, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 13, from the representative Turid Kristensen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality who is directing him. The question is, at the request of the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality, moved and answered before question 26, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 27, from the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde to the Minister for Industry, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e754	‘The Solberg Government has launched important government digitisation projects, such as in the tax haven. Common solutions help to make everyday life easier and safer for citizens and businesses. The advisory industry represents an important point of reference in several digitisation projects, but in the Hurdal platform, the government will ‘Kutte in Consultant Use in the State by developing its own competences’. How will digitisation projects under the Ministry of Finance continue without the use of private sector advisors with the right top competence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e761	I think I want to take that freedom and say that here I think the representative of Hofstad Helleland – consciously or unconsciously – misunderstands what the government has said. What we're concerned about is cutting public spending on PR consultants and public relations agencies. We want the cost down. It's true that we also want to reduce the general use of consultants in the state. We want public money to be used as efficiently as possible, but we should of course be able to use external competence for digitisation or other types of public sector projects. The government's starting point is that we're going to reverse the trend that the state is spending more and more money on expensive consultants. We'll bet on building our own management capabilities and competences. We think we need to be careful about how we spend taxpayers' money. Different public enterprises cannot have peak competence in all areas, and therefore it is natural that one in, for example, digitisation projects hire skills and use consultants, and also do so in the tax system in a way that enables one to gain more knowledge of his own establishment. That's what the new government is going to do – how do we build our own skills, how do we get costs down, and how do we make public migration work? Of course, we're going to rent help when we need it, but over time we're going to bring down the costs of using external consultants. The government is crystal clear that when it comes to purchasing PR services, we believe that there are services to be purchased to the minimum possible. You have to stop buying clean communications services over time. That's the government's clear goal. The reason for this is respect for the fact that all the money we manage in the public sector has been paid in by Norwegian taxpayers. Therefore, they must be used efficiently and efficiently. We're going to use consultants, but of course it has to be done with the least possible cost for the community. We have specifically pointed to PR and communication consultancy; there we want to tighten strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e778	I don't think we need to spend so much time on the use of PR consultants, because I think all the political parties on the Stortinget agree that it's nice to reduce and limit it. But there are completely new signals from the Minister of Finance today when he says that the government will hire help when you need it. It's quite different from what the Hurdal platform says, because it says that you have to cut the use of consultants and build up your own skills. We're talking about an industry with over 100,000 employees. 60 pst. Of them, working in District Norway, outside Oslo. They're wearing their helmets. How many profitable jobs in the private sector does the Minister of Finance estimate will be cut off because the government will prevent state agencies from taking advantage of this top competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e785	We haven't said that we're going to prevent government or the state from using top skills when you need it. But the Center Party and the Workers' Party believe that it is wise to spend public money as efficiently as possible. We want, for example: prioritizing that people who earn less than DKK 750000 will receive less taxes and taxes. Ergo we have to see how we can spend public money more efficiently, and then one of the ways we want to go into it, is to look at the use of consulting services, because it's expensive. I mean to remember that it was used 12 billion. kr to consultants in the state for the last year as the representative Linda Hofstad Helleland was the Council of State. Of course, we have to see if we can save money there. According to an official response from Jan Tore Sanner, when he was Minister of Finance, the state spent over 600 million dollars. kr on organisational advice and public relations advice. Then we start cutting, and we're already in the budget in the autumn to make it clear that we want to tighten up, for example. The purchase of organisational advice and PR counselling, because we believe that one should use that money in a different and better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e790	I think it's very confusing for Stortinget when there's so much distance between what's on the platform and what the finance minister says here. Now the Minister of Finance says that the government will use services and help when you need it, and rent in when you need it. And the platform says that you want to cut the consulting and build up your own expertise in the departments and administration. Here you need a preparation. Can the Minister of Finance respond to whether he has deviated from the wording of the Hurdal platform and the promises given to people throughout the election campaign to cut the use of consultancy services? The Minister of Finance would also like to respond to what the cut in consulting services would mean for increased red tape and more public employees in the government sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e797	I'm saying exactly what's on the Hurdal platform, that we're going to cut the consulting. That's the government's goal. But cutting the consulting is not the same as cutting all the consulting, and it's not in the Hurdal platform. But we also point out that it's an area we're really going to cut, and that's the purchase of PR services and organisational advice. I notice that the Right is becoming incredibly concerned that we are saying that the State will spend the money more efficiently. That is really the whole purpose of the Hurdal platform – how to use public money more effectively. We want to turn around, for example. the development of the state’s start to purchase more organisational advice and public relations advice. We need to spend public money as efficiently as possible, for example. by resolving many tasks internally. The fact that the Right is concerned that we are going to look at how we can save money on public consulting is going to be Right's concern. The government wants to cut and save money there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e809	‘The new government will introduce a geographically differentiated user charge. How does the Council of State want to design this, in a fair way that also ensures that we achieve our climate objectives?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e816	The user charge is used to obtain money for the community, so that we can build roads and bind Norway together, and to charge for the costs involved in using the roads. What's on the government platform is that we're busy looking at how we can manage to have a traffic system that binds all of Norway together. In some parts of the country it is easier to replace the car with e.g. bus, train, tram or other transport sources, while others do not have that choice. This is why the Hurdal Platform provides a number of measures. The one to be assessed is whether it is possible to differentiate the user charge. We raise it with commuters, air transport where there are challenges with it, ferry where there are challenges with it – we're going to do a lot of action to reduce the distance disadvantages for those who don't have an alternative to the car, who may not be able to take the train. That's what's on the platform. We have now started working on the additional budget for this year. We're going to start by doing some grips there considering what we think is the right way, and then there's going to be a more holistic approach in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e827	I specifically asked how this cut in the user charge can actually be implemented. I understand very well that the government will now deliver an additional proposition in a few weeks, and that we will have to wait to see the proper content until it comes. But I think – with all due respect – that it does not keep the answer that the Minister of Finance is now giving. I have been through the election campaign in quite a number of debates with party leader Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum where he has talked about tying the whole country together, what Norway we are so happy about. But now I actually expect more – I expect something more concrete about what's going to be one of the most important measures. At the same time, the government says that they should keep the level of taxation unchanged. If it still applies, it means, for example, that the user charge or other charges will be increased for someone, in order for someone else to receive lower charges – because you might have to compensate for it? Does the Minister of Finance have any thoughts about that? Who will get higher fees?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e834	The main objective of the government is that for those who are dependent on transport, costs shall not rise. So we have to do it in a way that makes us also get Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions down at the same time. Our criticism of the previous government was that it was not conscious enough of how it created unfortunate distributional effects when, for example, one was. tightened up commuting deductions and made other types of grip, as the Right and Advance Party did when they were in government. Therefore, when we are going to present our supplementary proposal in November, we will of course look at how we can also take action in tax policy to reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, which at the same time does not make everyday life more difficult for those who depend on cars, those who depend on the ferry, and those who depend on feeding in places where transport is needed. That's what the entrance to this government is. Then we will come up with different measures and different steps in the proposition, when the proposal comes to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e843	I really think that most of the parties agree that we need to look at how we can avoid unfortunate distributional effects, as the Minister of Finance talks about. But then the question is, why hasn't the Minister of Finance thought a little bit more about how to actually avoid it? He repeats the same thing he repeated in the election campaign, but it is not concrete. So then I can try a different angle of incidence, because I don't get an answer. NAF has launched a map where they refer to how such geographical differentiation might be possible to protect those who use the car the most. However, given that the overall level of taxation and charges should not increase, as the platform writes, it may mean that a single mother in Egersund – who is not one of the municipalities that NAF points to – gets a higher fuel price, while a wealthy family in Sokndal, who is one of the municipalities that is identified as one that can get a lower price, gets it. Is that fair?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e850	The representative Tina Bru will note, when the Centre Party and the Workers' Party present their additional proposition, that the distribution profile is significantly better than that presented by the previous government. They then forgot in a lot of the grips how it turned out to be distributive. For those who are dependent on transport and who do not live near their own jobs, you will see how to take action to facilitate their everyday lives. So I don't really think the representative Bru needs to worry so much about the problem she's raising. When she sees the additional propositions coming, she will see that there is a completely different policy, where one actually sees the whole of Norway and has a tax policy that helps those who depend on transport in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e855	We move on to question 12, from the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde, who has been transferred to the Minister of Finance as the right Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e863	This question, from the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde to the Minister for Climate and Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e868	‘In the Climate Plan, the Solberg Government proposed to increase the CO 2 tax to NOK 2000 per tonne of CO 2 in 2030. The CO 2 tax is an effective means of reducing emissions and ensuring that new alternatives to fossil fuels can grow. In the Hurdals platform, the government comes up with proposals to cancel the CO 2 tax with various exceptions, including proposals to reduce fuel taxes. Can the State Council then guarantee that the emission effect of the CO 2 tax will not be reduced?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e890	In the government platform, we have assumed that we should gradually increase the CO 2 tax. It is an important tool in climate policy. We have also announced that we will take a number of other measures to reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions — get a more active industrial policy, make sure that the public sector changes faster, make it easier for you and me to choose environmentally friendly in everyday life. The sum of all climate action that the new government is about to start to present as early as 8 November will show that it is a completely different force and direction, and that one should not only think of punishment and indexation in climate policy, but also how to create more jobs. In terms of charging policy, we are committed to looking at how we can use different charging approaches. One thing is to increase the CO 2 tax, which we have announced, and we can also learn from e.g. what we have done on electric cars in the past, where we also use positive instruments to reduce Norwegian CO 2 emissions. I noticed that it was almost always the negative instrument that was lifted up when the Right and Advance Party ran. We believe it is important to use taxes, but we are also concerned that we should look at how it impacts socially and geographically, how we can achieve better distribution, and that in climate policy we should also create new green jobs, while at the same time having a clear objective that Norway should fulfil its obligations and contribute to the efforts of reducing global greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e908	I hope the finance minister is better at counting money than he is at counting CO 2 emissions, because that's actually where we've come in the climate debate now. There is, of course, no question of setting up good-sounding measures. We have presented a climate plan that specifically sets out what each action will result in of reduced tonnes of CO 2 emissions. The calculation on the Hurdals platform does not go up. You can't increase the target to 55 pst. cut while weakening more climate action. In order to have an impact on the increase in CO 2 tax, which is, moreover, the most important means of achieving migration also in the transport sector, it cannot be reduced for individual actors or sectors. The climate plan says that if you actually compensate for an increase in CO 2 tax by e.g. reduced user charges will cut three million tonnes of CO 2 less than if you did not. Then the question to the Council of State is more specific: when the government is going to cut 55 pst. at the same time as reducing fuel taxes – what concrete new measures in the platform does it cover in tonnes the emission gap?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e930	Now it's on the Hurdal platform, and the government is very clear that we're going to use the CO 2 tax. When we are so clear that we are going to have a clear direction for the use of the CO 2 tax, it must be done in a way that does not create too much resistance and uncertainty about how it turns out both socially and geographically. We need to take into account some human considerations – that is what the platform says – taking into account the way Norway is, taking into account different industries, so that there is no intervention that affects very badly socially. The direction and course are clear: the CO 2 fee should gradually escalate up to 2030. Then we say that we should also do many other things in climate policy, and we should have a thought about how to create more industry, more jobs, more value creation in Norway. Then we have to go through the different sectors of transport, agriculture, industry, you and me, all the grips we have to do in sum. We have also announced that, in the context of the State budget, we want to have a more thorough review of how, in addition to achieving the economic objectives, we can achieve the climate policy objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e948	The problem with the Minister of Finance is that there are no new measures in the Hurdal platform beyond what was already in the climate plan. You have to have it if you want to increase the target and also hollow out the CO 2 tax. Then you actually have to mention something quite specific like cutting emissions. Take the transport sector: in the climate plan we say that we should cut 50 pst. emissions in the transport sector by 2030. The Hurdal platform only states that emissions should be reduced. I understand that you don't want to figure it out any more, when you at the same time cancel the CO 2 tax. When you cancel the CO 2 fee by e.g. the reduction of fuel taxes does not result in the conversion of heavy goods vehicles. Even hydrogen will not be profitable because you do not have an increased CO 2 tax. Then my question to the Minister of Finance is finally: when so many sectors are now to be exempted from this CO 2 tax, while suddenly reaching 55 pst. cut, it must mean that other sectors will have to pay even more in CO 2 tax. Is Battle Violence Vedum willing to break the climate targets, or is he willing to increase the CO 2 tax over NOK 2000 for selected sectors that can withstand it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e978	We have announced a gradual escalation of the CO 2 tax, it is in the Hurdal platform, and we have announced that it will be done in a way that takes some human interest. I think it is really a good thing that climate policy too sees how it affects different industries and groups, and that you do not send the biggest bill to those who have the most demanding. For example, in the case of a tax change that the Right chose to do with the Advance Party as the increased fees on biofuels, we have announced in the Hurdals platform that it is one of the grips we want to look at to make it more profitable to use bio in the Norwegian transport sector. It can also be a very effective tool too much within heavy transport and installations. Then we can use positive means of charging and assess whether you should perhaps reduce some charges. It is not like in climate policy that we should have just one thought in our head: increased taxes. We have said that we need a gradual increase in the CO 2 tax, and then we want to use a variety of tools to create jobs and activity while getting Norwegian CO 2 emissions down.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e999	‘What will the Council of State do to meet the demands of the construction unions for an immediate ban on the use of manning agencies in the construction industry in the Oslofjord area, as the Workers’ Party and the Centre have repeatedly proposed in the Stortinget earlier, and how quickly can we count on this to be put into place?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1004	This government will ensure that workers gain more power over their own everyday lives. It's one of our most important projects, and that's why we're going to do more things. We're going to remove the general access to temporary additions. We're going to reintroduce collective redress. We're going to double the union deduction. We're also going to follow up the Fuugner selection. The many good suggestions there when it comes to preventing employers from organizing themselves away from their employer responsibility are things that we want to address. In addition, we will also end up with the kind of penetrator that pushes fixed additions. I mean quite clearly that the amount of housing for the construction industry is significantly larger than the average. In the Oslo area, we see that the level is even higher than that, and that's why we're already doing a legal work to limit the scope and role of the crew industry. I'm going to look at more tools and more formulations that I'm busy with, too, over time, so that the problem not only shifts geographically or just changes character, but that the reality of the workers on the floor ends up becoming the same. So I'm also busy that the social partners are also going to be able to participate in their assessments. This is a work which, on my part, and on the part of the government, has a high priority, and I look forward to a very good, constructive proposal for solutions from the representative Mimir Kristjánsson.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1013	Thank you for the reply from the Minister for Labour and Inclusion. We in Red will applaud many of the initiatives that you mention here, that are very good, and that we agree on. At the same time, we have to say that we are disappointed that part of the promises that came from the Workers' Party in the opposition, now at least seems to go out significantly in time. The representative of Trine-Lise Sundnes, for example, said last August that such a ban in the Oslo area, i.e. an immediate ban, “only requires a regulation, and we will take care of that as soon as we receive the government offices”. Another party colleague of the Council of State, Arild Grande, said: “We cannot use winter and spring with long investigations on this.” And on the other hand, “We have said that we will immediately ban tenants within the Oslo area.” So there was an impatience here from the Workers' Party and the trade movement that just now seems to be a little away. My question is: what has happened, other than that the Workers' Party has occupied the department?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1030	No was the representative of Mimir Kristjánsson at the LO's regional conference in Rogaland, but it was me. One of the things that was discussed there was how we could best streamline the use of hired labour, so that it should not delay fixed additions. At the LO regional conference in Rogaland, there was also a concern that if one uses the regulatory approach without considering it to a greater extent, the problem will move geographically, i.e. there will no longer be a problem in the Oslofjord area, but that one will be able to see that the kind of conditions that one has seen in this region in some construction sites will move to other parts of the country. I have to admit that there is a concern that I share. For this reason, I am busy evaluating the regulatory approach, taking into account both local and national concerns. Then I can assure the representative that I am also impatient to get these things in place, and this work has a high priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1035	Like Councillor Tajik, I'm also nervous that this is going to spread to other parts of the country, and that's why my party supports the Joint Union's demand to wind up the manning industry in its present form, which the Tajik Party actually does not. I understand the need for legal work, for a hearing, for a process, but the strange thing is that there can't be a guarantee from the government that that round will end up in such a ban, as the construction unions around Oslofjorden have demanded, and so the opposition Workers' Party has obviously had no problem both in proposing, going in for and taking the order for repeated hearings, without the need for further hearings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1042	The President would just like to remind you that the speech of the representatives must go through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1047	Our ambition is like before, and that's that we'll end up with the kind of penthouse that pushes fixed additions. That's what the Labour Party wants, and that's what the Center Party wants. I have great faith that when we are going to conduct negotiations on the Stortinget, it will be possible to agree to make the necessary restrictions on the use of hired labour, so that there is a firm, whole set that is again the one that gets a stronger position in the law, and that it makes the workers feel that it is a reality for them and for their everyday lives. Now you should not ask the State Council any questions, so the representative does not have to answer this question now. But I would like to know: if the Red Party wants to phase out the manning industry in its current form, what form do they think the maning industry should have? It is also necessary for the Red Party to decide whether or not to accept responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1057	‘The Solberg Government amended the AAP scheme for the less than 25 years with effect from 1 January 2020. The change resulted in a change in the minimum rate from 2 G to 2/3 of 2 G for new recipients. In addition, the new default plug-in of the AAP was discontinued for new recipients. Does the Council intend to reverse these changes, or will they be continued by the new government?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1064	The previous government did a lot wrong – much more than I think we have time to discuss. I also want to remind you that all that the previous government was going to do in the course of eight, it's not possible to correct it in one budget. I dare say that we have already done important things. Already on the first day of the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, I assumed that the government would extend the benefit period for the recipients of redundancy payments until the new year. And in the Hurdal platform, we also say that we want to ensure that people who receive redundancy money are allowed to extend their benefit period if they are not completed by Nav or Health Services. Of course, it may also be relevant to consider other changes to the rules on redundancy, and I will come back to that at a later date. The most important thing for me as Minister of Labour and Inclusion is to avoid people getting into a situation where they feel that the working life doesn't have room for them. It's one of our priorities, that it's possible for people to use their abilities and resources, and not least, when they first end up on redundancy money, that they experience the follow-up they need to get the needed clarifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1071	Let me, because it's so strict that you just read the question first, get to congratulate the Council of State and wish her happiness in an important job. The council said in its reply that the previous government did a lot wrong, referring to the question I asked. Now we probably disagree on what is right and wrong to clean politically, but it must indicate that the Council of State believes it was wrong to equate the benefits of the AAP for young people under 25 with the benefits obtained in the qualification programme and the introduction benefit. I can fully support the wishes of the Council of State and I also want to cooperate with the government on how we can include more people in the labour market and ensure that several of them on the AAP are cleared for work and not just for disability, but my specific question was about this measure, i.e. reducing the performance of young AAP recipients. Is there any government council at least able to give a signal as to whether she is positive to continue, or whether she wants to change it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1078	Both the government and I can give a very clear signal that we are going to give priority to social justice. It shows the Hurdal platform very clearly. In several areas, the previous government has shown that they do not prioritize the everyday life of ordinary lives around the country, and some of the unsocial cuts that the previous government has carried out because they have simply not prioritised it, are acting for example. that trade unions have experienced that it has been more expensive to be trade-organised, that commuters feel that it has been more expensive to commute. We're going to clean up in these conditions. We're also going to cut the maximum price in kindergartens. We have also proposed that the Hurdal platform introduce free core time into the first-class school leisure system. There are some examples of social justice that we're going to give priority to. I want to remind the representative that social justice is not just about simple things. It's about the sum of everything. And that's the sum of all this government is going to focus on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1085	There was a long answer to a lot of other questions than what I was asking, and I understand that when the Council of State starts talking about kindergarten prices and other measures, which we would like to discuss, it is a sign that at least the Council of State has not decided whether or not she wants to continue this change. So I'm actually going to end by asking the question again: can we interpret it so that the Council of State has not decided to reverse the change for young AAP recipients?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1090	I just think I have to remind you that what this government has prioritised, is that people who are in a difficult situation are going to get it easier. On the day one took note of the fact that if they fell out of the redundancy scheme, or were in danger of falling out of the scheme, they would extend the scheme until the New Year. There may also be a need to assess other aspects of the redundancy payments, and I will come back to that in that case. What's going to be important to me is that young people get more opportunities. And in the Hurdal platform, we outline, among other things, a better youth guarantee for those under 30 years of age. We outline an activity reform for young people with a job guarantee at the other end, which means that one does not risk going into nothing – which unfortunately has been the reality during the Right-Registration.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1100	‘The Hurdal Declaration confirms that access to general temporary employment introduced by the previous Government should be removed. Many in the business community and individuals who have gained a foothold in the workplace have now appreciated this flexibility. Can the Council of State respond to whether she sees any advantages, both for businesses and for unemployed jobseekers, with such general access to temporary employment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1107	This government believes that fixed settings should be the main rule in Norwegian working life, and that temporary additions should be limited to work that meets a temporary need. In recent years, a number of surveys have been carried out to show the use of temporary additions and to address other forms of association with the world of work. They're showing a slightly different reality than the one the representative here sketches. In a survey in the municipal sector, Fafo found that employers benefit little from the scheme, and that they even perceived it as complicated and not necessary according to their needs. I also know that many of my colleagues in the vocabulary have not wanted to use that access locally, because they want to promote a working life with firm, whole settings. The research done in this area shows that temporary additions also do not seem to contribute to higher employment gathering sets. OECD summaries show that temporary additions can act as a springboard for someone, but that it can also act as a blindway, because it makes it harder to obtain fixed additions. In Norway, we see that only less than half of those temporarily employed achieve a permanent job after one year. The research even indicates that it is less likely that those groups which traditionally have difficulty entering the labour market go from temporary to permanent work. So here's a number of reasons why there's all the real reason why one should remove the general access to temporary additions. In addition, today's government feels that it is pointing in the wrong direction for the future development of working life. We're going to be a government that guarantees workers more power over their own everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1120	Thank you very much for your answer, Councillor. It is quite right, as the Council of State says, that the introduction of general access has not led to the explosion of temporary employment in Norway. We're stable on about 8 pst. However, rather than restricting the flexibility of the Work Environment Act, we believe that universal access to temporary employment gives more opportunities to enter the labour market. It could be the way to a firm and a full position, and it also gives companies the opportunity to hire people up to one year without having to fulfil conditions, as you had to do in the past. On 25 October, the Council of State in the VG claims: ‘For eight years, the government has implemented weaknesses in the Work Environment Act and the position of employees, inter alia, by introducing general access to temporary employment; [[...]] Why does the Council of State in the VG believe that universal access to temporary employment has weakened the work environment law and the position of workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1134	When this proposal was discussed at the beginning of its period of right-wing rule, a collective employee page warned against it. Several employers also showed that this was not a desired development for the labour market. So the big question is not why we think that this weakens the position of the employees, the big question is why the right part and the previous right government despite the fact that the employee side is unison that it weakens the position of the employees, and several of the employers also warn against it, could not take the feedback into account in the work they were doing. Someone would say that it is a fallacy for the previous government that this scheme, this access, was not used as much as it was claimed to be. What we also see is that the degree of use that has been, in no way is consistent with the ideological declarations from the Right to give people outside the labour market a simpler way in – on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1141	Let me just stress that the Council of State and I fully agree that permanent posts should be the general rule of the labour market. But in the election campaign, I visited a small agency in Kongsvinger, my constituency, called Active Manning. They help the industry in the region to generate labour, and they help people get into the labour market. In fact, a flexible labour-environment law is crucial for enterprises like this. We have many similar examples of local recruitment agencies that help get ordinary people to work throughout the country. When we see the consequences of liberalisation in the Working Environment Act, that it is as undramatic as the Council of State is, why is it so important for the Workers' Party to risk limiting the possibilities of getting more people into work – when they want to tighten the screw?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1148	We're not exposed to such a risk. The research and knowledge that one has associated with the use of the general access to temporary additions does not suggest that it would favour the suspension of groups to an adequate extent, by being temporarily added. Too few people get that possibility. However, when one has a general access to temporary additions to the law, one then has a law that does not give rise to the basic principle of fixed additions. That's what this government is going to give priority to, and there's also some reason why we want to remove the general access to temporary additions, and do it quite quickly. Had it been such that it contributed to postponing groups, had a good and thorough research that pointed in the direction claimed by the representative from the Right, one could have made other types of assessments, but the reality is that with the knowledge that we have on the table, it is not even possible to say that there is a greater incentive to work together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1158	First, I would like to congratulate Mr Selnes Schjörn as the Council of State in a very important area for our country, and I hope for good cooperation in the future. So to the question: ‘The last eight years have been very good for Norwegian fishing. In the nations on August 20 this year, the Workers’ Party’s Fisheries Commissioner Cecilie Myrseth draws a different picture and claims that there is a perpetual chaos and a disturbance along the coast. Myrseth notes that the Workers' Party will strengthen coastal communities by transferring a greater share of the quotas from the sea fishing fleet to the coastal fishing fleet, claiming that the sea fishing fleet and the major coastal fleets have long dominated the fisheries policy. Will the Council transfer quotas from the sea fishing fleet to the coastal fishing fleet?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1167	The representative Grotle points out that the last few years have been good for Norwegian fisheries. He's quite right about that, because it's been a long time in the Norwegian fishing industry. That's the way it should be, and the government has great ambitions for the industry. However, there is always room for improvement. If we are to achieve the objectives of which I believe there is a broad political consensus, we must have an active fisheries policy. In 2020, the National Audit Service provided a survey of the quota system in coastal and marine fisheries. They pointed out that although Norwegian fisheries are sustainable and have good profitability, there are improvement points in employment and settlement in coastal communities. I take this very seriously and will follow it up to Stortinget. This government is committed to the central objectives of fisheries policy. The Fisheries Sale Act, the Participant Act and the Marine Resource Act are in place. I have great ambitions for the further development of the fishing industry, to create more secure all-year jobs on land, and it requires a varied fishing fleet. We will continue to have sustainability and profitability, but it is also important to pursue the rural policy objectives of fisheries legislation on jobs and settlement in coastal communities. This government has therefore signalled a new allowance message. Firstly, there is a need to look at some of the issues that the Solberg government did not target, and therefore there is a need for clarification. The distribution of structural gains is such a problem. Secondly, we are going to take the initiative to see that the quotas can be allocated in a predictable and fairer way. I have already taken the initiative to start this work and will come back to what concrete measures it may be appropriate to take. It will be important for me to draw up a new quota notification in close dialogue with the industry to ensure the necessary legitimacy. It will also be an objective to seek broad political anchoring in Stortinget, in order to ensure that industry is as stable as possible in the framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1186	I'm glad that the Council of State is signaling that he will come back and seek a broad majority, a broad cooperation, for a new quota message. But at the same time, I record that the Council of State can't confirm here and now what Cecilie Myrseth fixed two months ago, and that it will also take a while to get an answer to this question. This is a question that concerns many people in the industry. Missing concrete clarifications create uncertainty and unrest in an industry that needs stable and sustainable frameworks. It's unfortunate. So I have one supplementary question: although the Council of State cannot answer the issue of quotas in concrete terms, I would nevertheless ask the Council of State to clarify the following: Is the Council of State along the lines of Cecilie Myrseth's claim that the sea fleet and the major coastal fleets have for a long time dominated the fisheries policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1193	In the Hurdal platform, we state that we need to ensure a fairer distribution of fishing quotas. It's the bearer when we go into the work we're now going to do. So I think maybe I'll refrain from participating in the debates that have been before. I underlined in my speech that we will seek dialogue with the industry to ensure the legitimacy of the proposals that we want to promote here, and we will also seek broad political anchoring in the Stortinget. It is also such that the work that I am already doing will take some time. I want a very clear ambition that all the suggestions we put on the table in Stortinget should be investigated, so that the Storting knows the consequences of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1202	I note that the Council of State is not here either in what the Workers' Party's Fisheries Policy spokesman said just a short time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1210	Welcome to the Council of State at the main hall. ‘In the Hurdal Platform, the Government writes that it will critically review the use of global funds to ensure more efficient development assistance. Does the government wish to signal greater use of NGO-driven assistance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1219	Development policy is to find — and fine-tuning — the tools to help countries with a high level of hunger and poverty achieve the sustainability goals. Then we must also find the best co-players, those who can implement development policy as effectively as possible, whether it be the UN, global funds, non-governmental organisations or others. That is why I am very pleased that the representative Schou addresses this question. The government has been clear that we want to continue using the best tools in Norwegian development policy. We are going to put in an additional blow in crucial areas – climate adaptation, food production, renewable energy – and we are simply going to reconcile climate policy and development policy. With this, we seek to target those sustainability targets where Norway can contribute the most and which have a high potential for creating positive ring-effects, so that we can achieve results on the other objectives as well. But if we are to have any prospect of success, we must ensure that we have the best partners. We must have good quality and the greatest possible impact of the assistance. The representative himself mentions two of the most important channels of our support, for both the global funds and voluntary organisations can show good results – together and separately. Both, with networks and presence in individual countries, have been very valuable for Norwegian development policy over time, and not least for a time of closed borders. Nevertheless, evaluations of assistance show that there are challenges for all channels. Should thorough assessments show that our funds can be used even more efficiently, the government believes that then we have to adapt. In the Single European Act on Norway’s role and interests in multilateral cooperation, Report. St. 27 for 2018–2019, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Right then announced a review of the use of funds as a channel for Norwegian aid with the aim of identifying good and efficient fund mechanisms. This alerted the review from the previous government was never carried out. The government will do that now. But there is no decision in such a review. We will come back to proposals for decisions, and they will be based on how best to achieve the most sustainable growth possible for the world's poor and marginalised, and on how to achieve the sustainability goals by 2030 and the Paris Agreement in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1232	All development policies and assistance are paid by most people — our tax money. The Government of Solberg implemented several measures to ensure greater measurable and also performance management of development assistance, such as a reduction in the number of agreements and the establishment of a performance portal. In the Hurdal Platform, there is nothing about such measures. Will the Minister for Development continue to concentrate on Norwegian aid and also make it more results-oriented?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1237	Fortunately, development policy is a field in which there is a relatively large consensus on direction and not least on the objective of maximising the impact and results of investment. This means that both quality criteria and much of the direction of assistance will be firm. The government is clear that we want to be a predictable partner. It also implies the quality mechanisms underpinning it. However, evaluations of changing governments have also shown that there are challenges in all channels of assistance. What we know is that the use of multilateral channels, including funds, increased considerably under the previous government. Therefore, it is important to carry out the review that the previous government itself announced.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1242	The Hurdal Platform highlights a number of areas of development policy: climate, food security, economic inequality, women's right to self-determination, etc. Underlying is the control of infectious diseases with emergency care and health care. These are very important and central areas of activity. What I miss, however, is measures that lead to sustainable growth in developing countries. Then I think of the country's own resource mobilisation, trade, education, nutrition promotion in the countries that receive Norwegian help, which is about the system, not the individual projects, but which provide lasting solutions. It was also the subject of the Council of State’s previous response, namely to look at the impact of the measures. Why are these long-term structural objectives not on the government's agenda?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1247	The Hurdal Platform of the new government determines that development policy should contribute to societal change. We're going to put together efforts where we think we can make the greatest difference as a relatively small country, and focus on some areas where we know that we can change concrete sustainability targets, which can in turn create ring-effects in other areas. We also state that we want a conscious choice of partners and channels for assistance, because there are no clear answers to what is most effective. Now it is not that all good intentions are mentioned in a government platform. Much of the good Norwegian aid and development policy is determined by changed governments, but we have announced a clear commitment and targeted direction through the Hurdal platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1259	My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: ‘Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that it is working to bring IS women to Norway and can she further guarantee that the Norwegian State will not contribute to bringing IS women to Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1266	It is publicly known that there are still a total of four Norwegian women, including four children, in the camps in north-east Syria. Two of these women have asked the Norwegian authorities for consular assistance. The EEAS has a legal mandate to assist Norwegian citizens abroad. Norwegian citizens abroad, however, do not have legal requirements for consular assistance. In other words, the individual citizen cannot demand that the EEAS intervene in a particular case. Nor does Norway have an obligation under international law to actively repatriate foreign fighters or their children, as the obligation of action by Norway under human rights presupposes that Norwegian authorities have jurisdiction over the territory in question. The concern for the children in Syrian camps is strong. These children live under difficult conditions and are put in a very serious situation by their parents. Parents are also responsible for their own children abroad. The EEAS cannot pick up children who are accompanying their parents without the consent of their parents. The assistance given by the previous government to the children of Norwegian foreign fighters in Syria must be seen in the light of the exceptional situation of the children. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will deal with these matters in the framework of consular assistance. I remind you that every consular matter is about someone's personal matters, and that the details that the EEAS is familiar with in these matters will therefore be subject to the obligation of professional secrecy. For the safety of those involved, I cannot comment publicly on the handling of these individual cases. Our basic attitude has been that we don't bring foreign fighters home. Everyone can ask for individual consular assistance, but this means that individual assistance assessments are made and the right to do so in each case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1277	The Council of State does not answer the question. What I am asking for is a guarantee that the Norwegian authorities will not once again bring IS women to Norway. These are people who voluntarily left our country because they hate our values and everything we stand for, and who are now sitting down with their children, for whom I – like the Minister for Foreign Affairs – am deeply concerned. But we see that they push their children in front of them to try to get Norwegian authorities to help them get to Norway. I've noticed what the Foreign Minister has said before, that it's a general basic idea that you don't pick them up, but based on what's said here, I'm probably more unsure if that means you're already doing an operation down there to help some of them get to Norway. So once again I ask to be cancelled or confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1284	If the representative Listhaug had listened to my answer, she would have heard that I repeated the message about the government's basic position in these questions. But it is not relevant for me – as it was not for the government of which the representative Listhaug himself was part – to explain the handling of individual cases, because they are bound by the obligation of professional secrecy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1289	I hear you have a basic attitude. It is just that I am concerned about the individual issues, and the concern has not diminished by what the Foreign Minister says. We also asked a question about this to Prime Minister Gahr Støre earlier, where he also replied very evasively and unclearly. On 7 September this year, there was an article at No. No where opinions were received from representatives of Scandinavia for the self-government in these areas. They said they would contact Norway to make the expulsion decisions effective when they are available. These areas are not a recognised country, nor does Norway have any obligation to follow them up. However, I would like to know whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has had contact with these self-government authorities in this case, and whether there has been any expulsion decision for the persons who are staying there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1296	I am not aware of any such requests for expulsion. If the representative Listhaug experiences me as being elusive and unclear, it will probably apply in all individual cases. The representative Listhaug has been the Council of State itself, and this is about the obligation of confidentiality. It is quite fundamental in Norwegian democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1306	The Statue of Pillar of Shame has been in the area of The University of Hong Kong since 1997 and is a monument to the massacre in the place of Heavenly Peace. It has now been decided to be removed, supposedly as a result of the fact that the organisation that has managed the statue has several members who have been convicted of violating the highly controversial new security law in Hong Kong. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is as follows: ‘Is the Foreign Minister concerned about the conditions of freedom of expression in Hong Kong, given that the Chinese authorities are trying to remove the only monument in the People's Republic of China in memory of the massacre in the place of heavenly peace from Hong Kong?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1315	The President will indicate that the first post should contain the question and only that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1320	I am very concerned about the development in Hong Kong and follow the situation closely. The Hong Kong National Security Act was introduced by the Beijing authorities without consulting the Hong Kong authorities or the population. After the law came into force on 30 June 2020, a number of democracy fighters, politicians and pressmen have been arrested. There are also restrictions on elections to the Hong Kong Legislative Assembly. The choices have become both less free and less significant, and the controls of the Beijing authorities have been strengthened. Overall, development in Hong Kong has weakened the rights and freedoms of its citizens and has had a very negative impact on freedom of expression. Population, civil society, the media and business are tied up. With regard to the specific example to which the representative refers, any person has the right to express himself artistically. It's a fundamental human right. It also includes the right to express itself through art, it is a principle of government. The last time I was in China, I took up the human rights situation on behalf of all the political parties as the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I can assure the representative that I too, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, will stand up for the same thing. We want to follow up on what was done by the previous government, which the representative was part of. The policy towards China is firm, but we will create an even greater degree of predictability through a common Nordic and European approach, as the government writes in the Hurdal platform. We will cooperate with China where we have common interests, but at the same time stand up for human rights and our social values. With regard to Hong Kong, the rights of the population under Hong Kong Basic Law must be respected in line with the principle of one country, two systems. Hong Kong’s relationship with mainland China has been based on this model since its reunification with China in 1997 and will apply until 2047. This is a model that has served all parties well. It provides a high degree of autonomy for Hong Kong, a separate mini-founding law. Basic Law is an independent judiciary and has an independent legislative assembly. Respect for the principle of one country, two systems is a message we will continue to promote. The concern for development is shared with a number of other countries. We'll be better heard when we're together with others, and we'll pay special attention to being with our partners in the European and Nordic communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1333	The Minister of Foreign Affairs is drawing forth Basic Law as important, but there is no doubt that that law has in practice been set aside from China, and there are very many European countries that have been clear on how problematic it is that it is broken. With regard to the specific matter relating to this statue, the Danish sculptor has stated that he hopes he can have the opportunity to transport the sculpture out of Hong Kong. He has also asked for support from Danish politicians in this process. The Foreign Minister stressed the importance of cooperation with other countries and cooperation with our Nordic neighbours. The question is whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs would like to take some initiative, together with, for example, Denmark, and provide a safe and lasting home for the sculpture if it is removed from the University of Hong Kong.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1340	I have also been Minister of Culture. That's why I'm fundamentally concerned with artistic freedom and the freedom of the art institutions to exhibit what they want. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is therefore not responsible for communicating something to Norwegian art institutions – to what they want to show. This right is absolute in Norway, and it is also important to communicate to other countries, including Norway. China. What's fundamental to me is that everyone has the right to express himself freely within art.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1347	I very much agree on the freedom of the art institutions. Now, I guess there are others who do the exhibition of art, for example. in the public space. Often municipalities take the initiative, it's not just the big public institutions that do it. I would also like to believe that if an institution wants to bring this statue to Norway, they may need help from the Norwegian authorities. If the Council of State does not want to take any initiative in this direction, the question is what other initiatives she will take to strengthen the conditions of freedom of expression and democracy in Hong Kong, because there is no doubt that the removal of this statue is the last feature of the Chinese government's attempt to write about the history of the struggle for democracy in Hong Kong. Now we also hear that Amnesty International must close its office in Hong Kong, an office I myself visited when I was there in 2019. The civil society in Hong Kong is perplexing. So what initiatives will the Council of State take to strengthen the conditions of freedom of expression and democracy in Hong Kong?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1354	It is not my intention to tell the Council of State how the Ministry of Culture governs the art policy in Norway, nor in the field of art in public space, the Minister of Culture has any kind of opinions about how it should be. I think it's very important that we're pretty basic principles on these questions, precisely because artistic freedom is a way that very many people express themselves in other countries. Therefore, it would be very wrong for me to impose on an art institution in Norway some sort of expectation of what they should exhibit. In Norway we have full artistic freedom. Influence on art is not part of Norwegian foreign policy. We will in every way follow up what is the previous government's view of China, we will strengthen the work on human rights, so that it will be recognizable for the representative Melby.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1364	Before this question, I would also like to take the opportunity to welcome Anniken Huitfeldt to Stortinget as Minister for Foreign Affairs. ‘In the Hurdal Platform, the Government writes that Norway is to be an observer at the State Parties’ Meetings on the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. Norway will be the only NATO country to attend this meeting. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs consider the Treaty of Prohibition to be in line with our NATO commitments, and what reactions have been made by allies that the government has decided to participate as an observer at the meeting of the States Parties?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1373	I thank you for the greeting of the former foreign minister. What might separate foreign policy from other discussions in this house is that you don't want to misunderstand each other consciously – and I think that is a very important value in Norwegian foreign policy discussion. Norway intends to participate as an observer in the Conference of the States Parties to the Treaty of Prohibition. This does not imply a step towards the conclusion of the agreement. It is rather a recognition that the Treaty now exists and that the government believes it is important to be present where disarmament is being discussed. The Hurdal Platform confirms the government's strong commitment to NATO. Norway fully supports the strategic concept of NATO, including NATO’s defence and deterrence concept, last confirmed at the NATO summit earlier this year. Last week the Minister of Defence consulted the Allies at NATO's Minister of Defence meeting. The feedback was in line with expectations. The fact that Norway will be an observer at the State Party meetings of the Treaty of Prohibition does not, however, add to our commitments in NATO. Norway will continue to consult all countries on these issues. There is a broad consensus on the main lines of Norwegian foreign and security policy, but in some areas our two parties have had somewhat different assessments. On the issue of nuclear disarmament, our two parties have historically had a somewhat different approach. If we look at when Einar Gerhardsen made the statement on no nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil in 1957, the debate on the Bratteli doctrine of the 1970s on calling policy and the assumption that ships with nuclear weapons should not call at Norwegian ports, and the discussion on medium-range missiles in the 1980s, we will see in all these discussions, if we go to the sources, that the Right and Workers' Party have had a somewhat different approach historically. A decade ago, Jonas Gahr Støre, Minister of Foreign Affairs, took the humanitarian initiative to relaunch international disarmament, and it created a debate in the Stortinget when the previous government withdrew Norway from this work, and the whole initiative then took a direction that was incompatible with our NATO commitments. The government will be offensive to progress in disarmament negotiations, but within the framework of our NATO commitments, as the Workers' Party has done since the Gerhardsen government just after the war took part in the foundation of NATO, in 1949.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1394	It's interesting about history lessons, but I'm more concerned about what's happening right now. In the near past, the Labour Party and the Right have not disagreed on this. On the contrary, the Workers' Party has been crystal clear – here in Stortinget – that the Treaty of Prohibition is not in line with our NATO obligations, that we should neither sign nor ratify, nor participate as an observer at the Conferences of the States when it has been discussed here in Stortinget. I asked what reactions had come, and the foreign minister said they were as expected. Then the question is, what reactions did the government expect on this, in the opinion of me and many others, unintelligible and unwise isolation on such an important question? There is no disagreement about the objective – a world without nuclear weapons – but then the path does not go through an observer status to a prohibition treaty, which has both weak verification mechanisms and which does not include any of the nuclear weapons states. Why has the government chosen alone when it is not supposed to sign or ratify?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1403	The representative's representation of the close story is wrong. She herself provided the Stortinget with an investigation into the nuclear treaty. And it is absolutely right that on that occasion I said that it was out of date and not in line with our NATO commitments to sign that treaty. I stand by that. But there was nothing in that investigation about observer status. There have been expected reactions to our desire to be an observer. It's been from the nuclear powers, and it's been from the Right of the Storing. We probably share the goal, but it's also so that the way the previous government ran the disarmament policy has been discussed in this room. And there has been criticism of the previous government from several parties. I do not agree with the Left and Christian People's Party, which will sign, and which was part of the same government as South Africa, but I believe that the previous government should have been more offensive, and that this government has the aim of being.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1410	Where the government was offensive, it was possible to get practical disarmament work. This was particularly true of the international leadership we took on verification, where the nuclear weapons states are involved. We have also started a work on irreversibleity, which is two out of four factors that must be present to bring about disarmament. It's not just the Right of the Storing and the Atomic Powers that have been critical. The NATO Secretary-General has been strongly critical of what the government is currently doing. And the reactions obviously haven't let themselves wait. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said that the government fully supports NATO's strategic concept. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs then state that, in the context of the renewal of NATO's strategic concept to take place in the summer of next year, Norway will support the continued nuclear deterrence of NATO as long as nuclear weapons are in place in the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1419	This government has been quite clear that we support NATO's strategic concept. The last time we sat in government, we got into it as part of our goal that NATO's goal would be a world without nuclear weapons. Then we got the Americans on it, and it shows that we've been a lot more offensive than the previous government has been on these questions. I notice that the representative is talking about verification as something the previous government was active on. Well, it was Gahr Støre who took the initiative in that area. What is important to me, and which has been important for the Workers' Party since we joined NATO in 1949, is to stand safe on the ground of NATO, to be loyal as a NATO member, but to be more offensive in disarmament policy than what has been traditional Right Policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1431	«In processing the settings of Prop. 14 S it was decided to call on the government to set up a wide-ranging professional and political defence commission in 2021 to assess the security policy challenges for Norway. [[2020-2021]] In the Hurdal platform, the government writes that it will set up a total emergency commission. How, then, do these two commissions relate?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1438	Let me first thank Mr Elves for his question. Defence and preparedness mean a lot to Norway, and that, of course, also means a lot to the new government. Therefore, this government will follow the decision of the Storting to set up a Defence Commission this year. The Defence Commission shall assess the security policy challenges for Norway and contribute to the basis of the next long-term defence sector plan. The work on the mandate of this Commission was initiated by the previous government. I am also aiming, and I hope, to have good dialogue with all the parties in the Grand Duchy to get a mandate that has the widest possible political support, so that we have a broad anchoring of this work, as we have usually had in these kinds of matters. This was also done by the previous government in good dialogue with Stortinget. Thus, the government sees the need to look widely at how the overall resources of society should be set up to ensure adequate preparedness, and it should address a comprehensive preparedness commission. I'm not going to go into performing a lot of things, but it's clear that a total preparedness commission can include areas such as: water supply, we have just had a pandemic, we have issues related to organised crime, complex threats, digital and financial challenges or security, which are areas that will not fall under the Defence Commission. That's why it's also important to see these two in context, so the government wants to add up to closer cooperation between the Defence and the rest of society to strengthen our overall defence capabilities and our overall preparedness. The thematics of these two commissions are closely linked, and it is natural that we see them in context and inform each other in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1449	It is positive that the overall response capacities of society should be seen in the context of the Global Emergency Response Commission, and in particular how to maximise the use of scarce resources. Then my question is: why do you choose to weaken the capacity of the special forces and the preparedness for anti-terrorism by moving some of the helicopters from Rygge to Bardufoss, despite the fact that there is a unique technical advice that this resource will be used best in the location where it has now landed?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1454	Now we're probably on a slightly different topic, but the government doesn't intend to weaken the capacities and preparedness of the special forces. But to stick to what's the main question, what's going on at the Defence Commission, is the purpose of establishing two commissions to just see the relationship between these areas and the different needs we have, and the different challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1461	It is reassuring to hear that there is no desire to weaken the operational capacity of the special forces, but there is nothing to suggest that neither the situation as regards technicians, pilots nor the quality of the hulls has become better than when this decision was taken. But back to the commissions: it's okay with a broad investigation of all aspects of this, and I assume that this will be the basis for the new long-term plan that is coming. It's coming up with a professional-military advice from the Chief of Defense, too, I think. If these commissions and the trade union councils conflict with each other, is this going in a different direction, which of these commissions and councils will the Minister of Defence give the most importance?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1468	First of all, let me stress that the Total Emergency Commission is being set up by the Ministry of Justice, not by the Ministry of Defence. As far as possible conflicts between different areas are concerned, it is precisely the government and the task of the Grand Duchy to make political priorities between different areas and to ensure both the security of defence and the preparedness we need in other areas of society, in the best possible way. These are political priorities that we will come back to, and I think we will have plenty of opportunity to discuss in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1475	Question 12 has been answered in the past. Question 13 has been moved and answered before question 26. Then there is question 14, from Anne Kristine Linnestad to municipal and district minister Bjørn Arild Gram.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1485	Let me first welcome the Minister to the Chamber and to his first Question Time – there we are on the same line, this is also my first, on this page. ‘The Community has an obligation to follow illegal measures under the Planning and Building Act regardless of the age of the relationship. For municipalities, this can be seen as a burden, and it can make a huge error in practice for the inhabitants. This is particularly unfair to owners of immovable property if the unlawfulness has been committed by the former owner, far back in time. The Solberg government wanted to look at the instruments that the municipalities have and the obligation they have to follow-up measures in contravention of the plan. What is the view of the new Council of State on this issue?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1494	All of them first: Thanks for the welcome, and in the same way. The Planning and Building Act gives municipalities both the opportunity and the responsibility to manage the areas for the good of society. This shall contribute to ensuring that development takes place in accordance with law, regulation and spatial plan, and through it also ensuring access to, inter alia, the public. forests, mountains and coast. The Planning and Building Act is also one of our most important cultural memories and environmental laws. Planning and building legislation constitutes a comprehensive regulatory framework. There's no way to avoid breaking the rules. Some illegalities are due to a lack of knowledge, while others deliberately violate the law. The rules on illegality follow-up include: justified on environmental grounds, on grounds of equality and on grounds of respect for legislation. Unlawful follow-up shall contribute to the prevention of adverse land use and construction activities, to secure sectoral interests, to ensure good quality in construction works and to have a general preventive effect. It shall not be profitable to take shortcuts or break the legislation. I understand that non-principal owners who have bought in good faith may find it difficult to have to reverse measures that have been taken a long time ago. The fact that municipalities can experience illegality as a burden is, in my opinion, a weaker argument, given the social tasks of municipalities under the Law on Planning and Building, and the importance of the law for so many people. The Planning and Building Act also provides the municipalities with good tools to clean up old illegalities in a way that does not necessarily get very intrusive for the owners affected. This applies, for example: through a spatial plan, an application for the post-implementation approval of the measure and a derogation. Municipalities may also refrain from persecuting minor illegalities. This is the result of the provision on illegality follow-up, as it says today. I believe that the provision on illegality follow-up is important in order not to weaken the respect of the law. However, local authorities may have some challenges in the practice of the provision, and it is important to see the full scope of the instruments they have in the follow-up to the illegality. I would therefore like to first of all look at whether the guidance can be improved, so that municipalities can get a better tool that can be used in the practice of the provision. But at the same time, I will follow developments in this area carefully and look into the legislation if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1509	I thank you for your answer. We have the exact same starting point: it should never pay to break the law in any field, rather this, and it should be right. As it is now, there are some changes of ownership that have occurred, and things may have arisen far back in time. Some municipalities have a bigger clearing job, if you can call it that, than other municipalities do. It may go so far as to ensure that, after cleaning up old conditions, the municipalities do not actually have time, or resources, to adopt new detailed control plans and new development plans. I am pleased with the answer given by the Council of State, but since he now says he will start a work, I wonder how he sees the progress of this work, and when we can wait a message back.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1518	We share a lot of the perception here. What I tried to find in my answer was that today's regulations give the municipalities a flexibility to approach this in a way that can also respond to the owners who have been non-profit when they have bought their properties. It will, of course, depend on a concrete assessment, but, as I said, there are opportunities to be able to approve measures in retrospect, to grant exemptions, to change the spatial plan, so that not all measures or illegalities you discover need to be re-established. Of course, the municipalities have to assess that. I cannot now give any concrete deadline for the work, but I want to look at the guidance and thank you for having made me aware of the issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1525	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1533	Let me first congratulate the Council of State on a new and important task. I look forward to good cooperation here in Stortinget. This is a committee where there's a lot going on, so we may well be seen often in various contexts. So to the question: ‘One of the objectives of trust reform in the Hurdal platform is to reduce the use of market mechanisms in the welfare country. The government will reduce the use of the competences of businesses, social entrepreneurs and committed entrepreneurs that provide alternatives for those who do not want to use the public offer. How does the Council of State think that taking away from the municipalities parts of their local self-government, or depriving state businesses of the freedom to work in the way that they themselves wish to provide services where the needs and desires of the inhabitants are at the centre?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1544	Thank you for your welcome. I also look forward to cooperation on important issues. A trust reform in the public sector is, among other things, an act of trust reform in the public sector. to provide staff at the meeting with users with space and confidence in the exercise of their profession without unnecessary documentation and reporting requirements or long chain of responsibility from policy-makers to those who meet users, to remove time and space of action in order to provide the best possible services. In the municipal sector, this will also be accompanied by confidence in local democracy. Comprehensive detailed management of the service provision will just generate reporting requirements and the need for control mechanisms. We need to develop the public sector and find smarter solutions to create long-term sustainability. The government's aim in the renewal of the public sector is to achieve more well-being and less administration, more local freedom and less detailed management. The premise on the question, about taking away local self-government from the municipalities, I therefore believe that it is wrong. Of course, municipalities have the freedom to choose the solutions they think are best based on local conditions and local policy priorities. The public also does not necessarily have to do all the tasks themselves, but the government wants to facilitate, in key welfare areas, long-term agreements with non-profit institutions based on quality rather than commercialisation and outsourced competition. In this context, there is also a desire to strengthen the space for local policy action. An example of this is the nursery sector. I will not foreshadow the concrete follow-up of the Storberget Committee, which the previous government put down, but there is reason to note that central in that setting is the proposal of greater municipal authority to manage capacity development across municipal and private owners and to ensure greater equality in obligations between municipal and private kindergartens. The government is now working on clarifying the further process of a trust reform, where dialogue with, among other things. the social partners, user organisations and others become central. The cooperation of the Parties will be fundamental.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1559	Just to follow this up with interaction: an interaction where we get the opportunity to use the skills of companies, social entrepreneurs or creative and committed entrepreneurs in a start-up enterprise, for that matter, is absolutely crucial for the local value creation and good services for the inhabitants, which I expect the Council of State is also concerned about. Then, as a follow-up to what the Council of State has now said, I would like to ask: Why does the government – thus also the Council of State – think that it is more right for the public to do the job itself than that we should continue to have a good interaction between public and private?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1564	There is a wide-ranging interaction between the public sector and various actors, both of a non-profit and a more commercial nature. No one wants us not to have such an interaction. For example, I can. show that government, both state and local government, is a very large buyer of goods and services today – for several hundred billion dollars a year. An example of how to facilitate this type of interaction is related to what is in the supplier development programme, where efforts are made to link municipal needs with the development of business. This is an initiative that was taken by the NHO and the KS in its time, where the State agency is also involved and helps to find new, innovative solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1569	The Prime Minister recently said that a trust reform in the public sector is necessary. And although that's not my main question in this question-time question, I have to ask if it also concerns the trust of ordinary people. Let me illustrate this with an example: it says in the platform that you want to repeal the law on the authorisation system for free user choice. Does the Council of State feel that trust in the ordinary elderly is displayed when it becomes more difficult to choose who will come home to help with care and laundry? Is it to rely on the individual citizen and not least on the municipalities, given what services they can provide?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1574	As mentioned above, the government is now working on concreteising the further process of trust reform, but it is concretely referred to the interaction with user organisations in that work. So that's an example of definitely taking the user's wishes seriously. With regard to the question of free choice of user choice, I would just like to stress that there is an opportunity that has been in the law before the last change came. But you can actually look at the latest change, which probably came into force in September, as a narrowing of municipal autonomy, for the new rules that came, also laid down the rules on how the municipalities would conduct a free user choice, which had greater freedom before that amendment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1581	We then go to question 16, from the representative Frank Edvard Sve to the Minister for Transport Jon-Ivar Nygård. The representative Sve is not to be seen in the Chamber, and we move on to question 17, which is from the representative Helge André Njåstad to the Minister for Transport Jon-Ivar Nygård. Helge André Njåstad is also not to be seen in the hall, and we go to question 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1589	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘The Hurdal platform states that road development must be subject to political governance and public ownership. In what way does the Council of State think this is not the case today?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1598	The representative's question suggests that the Hurdal platform says we do not have political governance and public ownership for road development today. There's an inaccurate reading of the platform. I therefore allow myself to quote the section in question in its entirety: ‘Better roads bring greater benefits to society in terms of reduced costs to users as a result of better accessibility. The Government believes that infrastructure development needs to be implemented in a way that gives the most return to money and that large public investment in infrastructure should contribute to local and regional jobs. The Government considers that road development must be subject to political governance and public ownership.» It is important for this government to have political governance and public ownership for road development. Establishing this in the platform provides a clear direction for the government’s work, e.g. when we are to follow up the government's will-point that the government will: ‘Implementation of the organisation, operation and maintenance of roads. [sic] with the background that more and more builders and weighers are at risk of increased costs, more fragmented professional environments and less coherent development.» At the same time, I would like to remind you that the Hurdal platform states that the government will ensure that tenders for the construction of transport projects are designed so that local and regional actors can participate, and that the government will ensure that transport investments strengthen Norwegian companies with Norwegian wage and working conditions. In other words, the government platform is aware that, within the governance we are going to do from a political point of view, and on behalf of the public road builders, the State Road Administration and the New Roads, it will of course continue to be entrusted to private operators to develop roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1617	There was a little bit of a rush on both of us, this. Of course, I would like to congratulate the new Council of State on the job, and I look forward to good cooperation. I was also going to quote the passage that the Council of State even quoted, because it says it very wisely. It was just the last sentence I wondered about, because even though we separated Mesta from the State Road Service in 2003 and New Roads established in 2015, it has always been the Minister of Transport who has been the General Assembly and who has had the overall responsibility. It's the Stortinge that adopts the road development. This is not the way it is in any country, such as the United Kingdom. in the United States, where I've been driving on toll roads, which is 100 pst. Privately funded. No one in Norway has mentioned that. So then we can safely establish that it will continue as before, and I also hope that the Council of State will look closely at the portfolio that New Veier has, and make sure that they are allowed to move on, because it has given tens of billions of savings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1624	I don't really have that many comments about what Greece is saying here. We agree on the main envelope of what was said here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1629	Thank you for that. Then I expect the Council of State to join everything I said, including that about New Roads, and that we will benefit from this in the future. My point, and the right point, is that as long as we have a public road sector that is subject to public and political governance and control, it is the means we use to get the most out of the money, as it says in the Hurdal platform, which is crucial. Then it is important that one makes sure that the models that have been shown to give effect are put into service. Now, the State Road Service has also been given greater use of portfolio management, which may result in more efficient road construction. We have certainly experienced various road projects that have gone a bit off the ground. E16 to Hen Foss e.g. I'm in the middle of something. Getting a flow in this, making sure that the cars come out, that the transportation of goods comes out, becomes a main goal for the right over the next four years. I hope the Council of State joins in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1638	We are concerned that we should have an effective structure throughout the road, and that we should get the most out of the money. I don't think there's any disagreement about that in the Storting, nor between the parties. It says in our platform that we are going to have a review of the structure in this area, and that includes that we want to look at everything, but there are no concrete things I want to report about, for example. linked to Nye Weier, at present.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1643	The President will remind you that the representatives must be present in the Chamber when it is their turn to have the floor. The normal thing is that the possibility of questions falls out when one is not present in the hall. Since the Council of State is still here, and has prepared to answer the questions, the President will nevertheless allow the two who were not present to ask their questions. Then is the next question from Frank Edvard Sve to Minister of Transport Jon-Ivar Nygård. Here you go.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1653	I'm sorry, President, but we have to learn. The road gets there as we go, and we're going to take it to ourselves. ‘It is claimed by the Central Party and the Labour Party of its politicians in More and Romesdal that the county must cut significantly CO 2 emissions, and they have agreed that the county will become an environmental state no. 1st@item: inlistbox At the same time, politicians from these parties will also build a new E39 with the Møreak, almost 400 meters below the Romsdalsfjord and miles by tunnel, most of it run. Emissions will be foreshadowed by a new world record in the subsea tunnel by a possible realization of the Møreak. How can the Council of State explain that More and Romesdal should become an environmental state no. 1 By Building the Moorax?»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1665	The climate crisis is one of the most important challenges facing the world in the coming years. In line with the Hurdal platform, the government will provide an effective transport policy for the whole country, which reduces greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector in line with our international climate commitments. The transport sector accounts for about one third of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. National transport plan 2022-2033 sets out five main objectives for the transport sector over the next 12 years. Contributing to the achievement of Norway’s climate and environmental objectives is one of them. We propose that greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector be halved by 2030. The main means of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector is the CO 2 tax, turnover requirements for biofuels and public procurement requirements. National transport plan 2022-2033 prioritises a number of investment projects in all modes of transport. Projects that contribute much to one of the main objectives can contribute negatively to another. Some of the priority projects are intended to increase greenhouse gas emissions from transport, while others may lead to a reduction. National Transport Plans 2022-2033 build an ambition to halve emissions in the transport sector and contribute to the achievement of Norway’s climate objectives. More and Romesdal is one of the largest states measured after mainland exports and is important for national value creation. Priority should be given to projects that support this value creation. E39 Ålesund-Molde shall build up housing and labour markets between the two largest cities in the county. The project will also reduce travel time and facilitate transport through the county north-south. E136 is the most important route in and out of the county. Where the road goes along with the E39, it will be significantly repaired.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1679	I would like to thank you for your answer, and I would like to point out that one should cut a lot of CO 2 in the transport industry. Norges Lastebileier-Verbund has provided an estimate showing that over Romsdalsfjord it is on average about approx. 240 large car trains per day, which will release approx. 2 200 kilograms of CO 2, and in one year we're talking about 770,000 to 800,000 tonnes of CO 2. How can it help to reduce CO 2 emissions before transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1696	As I said, it's a whole. Some projects will contribute negatively, some will contribute positively. We look at the overall impact in the transport sector in the national transport plan when we are going to achieve/implement these objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1701	What in this way makes the Møreak even worse when it comes to the environment and emissions is that that road should pass and sometimes also pass through the city of Molde. One knows that large combinations of vehicles have to go from 80 kilometers and maybe down to zero, there are six laps there, and that will also lead to extra emissions. How can there be a good basis for cutting CO 2, such as the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1709	I want to remind the representative that there has been a long process in advance here, a planning process that has at least been going on back to 2010. A regulatory plan for fjord crossings has been adopted and work is under way on the regulation plan north and south of it. On the Breivika–Örskog mountain you are about to start planning according to the Law on Planning and Building. So here you've put a huge amount of time and resources into a project that's approaching start-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1714	Then we give the same reason for question 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1722	‘In the election campaign in Hordaland, the government party of the Workers' Party and the Center Party are talking to each other about Hordfast. There, the Labour Party's representatives stressed the firmness of the line and the concept, talking to the Center Party's candidates about rematching the line. The Hurdal platform does not refer to Hordfast, so it is important for further progress to clarify which party’s view is leading for the government’s holding. Is it the Labour Party or the Center Party that the government is listening to in the election campaign?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1729	On 3 September this year, the Government of Solberg promoted a proposal on the investigation and planning of the Hordfast project. I Prop. 208 S for 2020-2021 will be encouraged to decide that the project will be further planned in line with the agreed framework for the project. This implies that it is the treatment of this proposition in Stortinget that will preface the further development of this project. I'm going to deal with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1734	I thank you for the answer and interpret it as if the government were not withdrawing that proposition, and therefore is behind the government of Solberg when it came to trajectory. Then I just ask clearly whether it's government's policy that they're behind that proposition, that is, that a very middle line, and that it's not going to take two to three years with new planning, which the Center Party has been talking about. Can the Council of State confirm that what the Central Party said in the election campaign is not leading the government's stance?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1739	I can confirm that the proposition is not withdrawn, and I have full confidence that the parties in Stortinget, both the two government parties mentioned above and elsewhere, can find adequate solutions to deal with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1744	I thank you again for the answer and interpret it as the government is behind it. I expect that the government party in the Stortinget, which is also behind what is the government's hold, has cleared up all the uncertainty about the trasé for Hordfast, that both the outgoing government, the Progress Party and the new government are clear that one should build the middle line that has been planned for a long time, and that one suggests that the debate on new trasé has been removed once and for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1749	I do not have the approach that I want to prejudge the treatment in Stortinget, so I trust that our parties in Stortinget will find good solutions in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1754	Then we go back to the normal order of the questions. The next question is question 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1762	Holidays and ferry prices have for a long time been highly focused on us who live along the coast, and for one who has been state policy in Northernland for many years... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1767	The President reminds us that in the first post, the question is to be asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1772	Then I'll go to the question: ‘The Government Declaration states that a long-term wish for free ferries to island communities without mainland connections and on routes where there are fewer than 100000 passengers per year. If there are more than 100000 passengers per year, the price will be half. What is the point behind such discrimination between travellers and commuters?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1781	The Hurdal platform states that the government wants to bet on ferries. The government will halve the price of highway ferries and highway ferries in the four-year period. It will have a major impact on the economy of ordinary people and on the costs of business. The platform also states that the government wishes to introduce a free ferry system for islands and other unconnected communities to the mainland, and also to make all ferry connections with less than 100000 passengers free of charge per year. The work on reducing tariffs is in progress. It started by revising the state budget for 2021, when the tariffs were reduced by 25 pst. in national road ferries, and funds were allocated to facilitate a corresponding reduction in county road ferries. The government will return to the Storting on how to follow up the reduction of ferry tariffs and other measures. A first follow-up report will appear in the additional issue of the State budget for 2022 in November this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1786	It's, like I started with, so for those who live along the coast and those who travel as tourists, it's hard to see the logic in terms of whether it's 100,000 travelers or fewer. If you live on Vega and have 70000 kroner in travel expenses, you still have 70000 kroner in travel expenses if there are more than 100000 passengers. Or to put it another way: if you live on Melbu and commute to Fiskebøl at work, you do it with a ferry that takes 40 minutes, and if you're going to drive around, you take 2 hours and 20 minutes. The cost is the same, and it's one of the ferry connections that won't get a 50 pst reduction, and the load for those who live there and are commuter, is getting significantly larger than for others. So the simple question is, what's behind the logic?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1791	We'll come back to how we're going to set up this system after an assessment and investigation in the department, so I don't have any basis to go into it any further than what I've already said.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1796	I hear that, and then we get to wait until the supplementary proposition comes, so that we might then see the logical idea behind such a targeted effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1801	Does the Council of State Nygård have any further comments?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1806	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1814	‘In NTP 2018-2029, for example, the Eastfold Railway was to be completed by 2034. The Hurdals Platform government now announces that the ambitions for the InterCity expansion in the East will be maintained in line with the 2013 decision, which will mean an acceleration to 2030. In recent years there have been dramatic increases in costs for the Eastfold Railway. What and what transport projects should the government deprioritise if this development is to be accelerated?"
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1821	Let me first thank the representative Morten Stordalen for the opportunity to explain the government's ambitions for intercity development in general and the development of the Eastfold Railway in particular. The Hurdal platform is clear that the ambitions for intercity development, which was addressed at Stortinget in 2013, are firm. A progress plan for the development of intercity sections was presented in the 2013-2024 National Transport Plan. It shows that the government will undertake to develop the intercity sections so that train provision can be gradually improved even in the years before double tracks are realised on these sections. The NTP 2013-2024 Propulsion Plan — the target for the completion of each route — was very ambitious. The subsequent cross-political ambitions on behalf of the railway have also not been less ambitious. I would like to remind you that the government of Solberg in the National Transport Plan 2018-2029 itself presented a progress plan with specific years of completion of the intercity sections. Already in the following years, when the Directorate for Railways was going to put the transport plan into practice in its own action programme, it became clear that the plans had been tracked down and that progress was unrealistic. I think we can all agree that long-term planning is demanding. As the representative points out, after the submission of the national transport plan 2018-2029, significant cost increases have been achieved, particularly for the Eastfold Railway. We should therefore allow ourselves to adjust the map when it no longer matches the terrain. I would therefore like to commend my predecessor Knut Arild Hareide with the introduction of portfolio management in the transport sector. It's a grip on the government now that we're working on it. The aim is to be able to contribute to, inter alia: that Bane NOR shall have framework conditions enabling the most rational progress of the major projects located on the intercity sections to be made. At the same time, the phasing-in of new rail supply improvements needs to be adapted to the future economic space for action. We also have to make sure that we choose the right solutions for the future. I would like to remind the representative that the level of activity on the Norwegian railway is historically high. The Folloban is approaching completion, and we are on our way to expanding the double track on the Westfold track towards Tønsberg, the Dovrebane towards Hamar and the Eastfold track towards Moss. The completion of the first intercity deployment power packages will result in significant travel time improvements and increase the operational stability of the routes. It will provide a significant improvement in both internal and external intercity offers. However, it is regrettable to see that the progress in the development of the Eastfold Railway towards Fredrikstad and Sarpsborg now seems to have become more uncertain during the previous government. It will therefore be very important to turn all the stones in order to get offer improvements back on track, so that we can give the travellers in the Lower Glomma a better offer. There is something I would like to start by evaluating. As mentioned above, the level of activity on rail is high and it binds investment funds for many years to come. What concrete railway power packages there will then be room for prioritisation will be referred to by the government first in a new proposal to the national transport plan 2026-2035.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1844	Let me first thank the honorary minister for giving to the Progress Party's participation in the government in building up the railway, investing properly and giving money to it. The Eastfold Railway was supposed to cost $8.5 billion. kr below the red-green, it increased to 12 br. kr, then 40 brd. kr. At the same time, the Hurdal platform states that ‘[r]government believes that infrastructure development needs to be implemented in a way that gives the most money back’. I agree. I then believe the Minister for Transport that it gives the most return for the money to spend 28 billion. kr extra to get into Fredrikstad?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1853	As I said, we will be able to come back to how we should prioritise the remaining intercity sections when we roll the National Transport Plan, but we will constantly look for opportunities to fully implement the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1858	Then I realize that there is a slight misunderstanding in what is on the Hurdal platform, because it says that you have to deal with the 2013 decision, and there were double tracks all the way in the intercity triangle. History at the time showed that, among other things, in Tønsberg double tracks, where only one track has been used. One track you greeted at home has been unused for almost ten years because no money was allocated to what was absolutely essential, the signalling system. Will the Council confirm that he will now use the money sensibly and build what is needed to meet frequency and schedule times?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1867	The most important thing for us is to get up a good train offer for everyone along the intercity sections. There's good reason to think that this will involve the development of double tracks, but we don't exclude anything in the process we're in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1875	First, I would like to congratulate the Council of State on the responsibility for Norway's most important industry. ‘The Hurdal platform reads as follows: ‘The electricisation of the socket shall be carried out as far as possible with sea wind or other renewable power produced on the socket.’ The industry itself says that the development of sea wind in Norwegian sea areas will not take place until the end of the 2020s, in which case mainly related to exports. What other sources of renewable electricity will the government focus on until it becomes relevant to exploit the power generation from sea wind?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1884	The government will conduct a fair climate policy that cuts emissions and creates jobs. In the Hurdal platform, we are also clear that the Norwegian petroleum industry is to be developed, not liquidated. We say that in cooperation with the industry we will ensure that the emissions from the production of oil and gas on the Norwegian base are cut by 50 pst. by 2030 and to net zero by 2050. To achieve this goal it is necessary to electrify on a Norwegian base. In the short term and by 2030, such electrification requires increased use of power from land. At the same time, we need to ensure sufficient renewable energy for new and existing industries on the mainland. Well-established key instruments in the Norwegian climate policy are the quota obligation and the CO 2 tax. The high cost of emissions gives companies strong self-interest in reducing emissions by increasing the use of electrification. As a result, force from countries can cause significant reductions in emissions from Norwegian pedestal. Projects may often lead to the need for action in the shore-based power grid. There is a significant potential to increase Norwegian power generation by expanding sea winds in the two open areas, Utsira North and Southern North Sea II. Technological development and cost reductions are needed to make power generation from Utsira Nord profitable. The government wants a stable level of activity on a Norwegian base, where we are gradually increasing the activity of new industries such as sea wind, capture and storage of CO 2, hydrogen, aquaculture and minerals. It takes a long time to plan complex operations on the base, whether sea wind or oil and gas. Therefore, it is also important to formulate these ambitions and objectives in the longer term. Hywind Tampen is an example that this technology can play an important role. The industry is also working on other solutions to supply installations on the base with renewable energy. In any case, sea winds must be supplemented by other solutions for the stability of the power supply. In the next decade, Norway will need more power and better transmission systems to build new green industries, electrify society and reach our climate goals. That is why we have warned that, among other things: will set down an Energy Commission to identify energy needs and propose increased energy production. The government has a clear objective that sufficient access to renewable energy will remain a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry and that we will achieve the climate objectives we have set ourselves. This means that we need more power generation and better networks between areas in Norway and that we need to facilitate these processes to play together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1907	Thanks for the answer. It was honest and sincere, and it shows that the Hurdal platform may not be as true in its words as it is written – that an actually will use shore power over wind power to electrify the Norwegian base. This will have a major impact on security of supply on the country side, and especially in my constituency, we have major challenges associated with the creation of new industries due to power shortages. My question is, how will electrification and use of power from land be increased in order to electrify the socket and disrupt security of supply? And what will the government do in the short term – that is, before and by 2030 – to ensure that we have sufficient power both to electrify the Norwegian socket and to ensure that the West also has the power to establish new industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1914	I thank you, of course. I was a little quick instead, so I want to say a thousand thanks for the welcome to the Stortinget. What I want to say is that we have ambitious plans. I also want to remind you that the knowledge base we now have about sea winds is ten years old. This means that we need to rebuild it and identify which areas we, for example. can be opened to sea winds. So we have great ambitions, and we're now going through the hearing replies that we've been given. We're going to work effectively, but we're also going to have to hold our tongue right in our mouths, because this is an important new job that we're now going up. I very much appreciate the fact that the representative is concerned about this, but I would like to ask that these questions also be addressed in the Right Group meeting, for the representative represents a party that has run this policy for eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1923	I thank you very much for your answer. We will follow closely, and I hope we can get a good cooperation in this field. What worries me was the vision of electrifying the Norwegian base with wind power. That's what I'm talking about right now is an ambition that the government actually rejects as a solution in the short term. So I thank you very much for the answer and look forward to a good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1930	I would like to say that I do not reject the fact that we are going to use sea wind, but there are many factors that determine when a wind power plant on the Norwegian base will be completed. We have to do what we can to put up with a sound and effective concession process, and then the builders also have to do their part of the job. We have ambitious plans, it's a great potential for sea wind, but also for hydrogen and capture and storage on the base. On land, too, it is possible to intensify and obtain more renewable energy so that we can build a new green industry in the West. Right now, it's pretty unfair that we don't have enough transfer capacity, among other things. in our state, where there is power in inner strokes, but not in outer strokes where we among other things. need to put in a new green industry to achieve the goals we have set. But I also want to remind you that the concessions for electrification have already been granted by the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1943	I would also like to congratulate the new Council of State from the Chair. ‘The new Council of State has stated that we cannot limit power exports based on price-regulating considerations, even though, for example, the EU Member State currently has restrictions on its exports of power. At the same time, the NVE could report that the water level in Norwegian magazines has not been as low as it was in week 41 since 2006. The question is therefore whether it is not possible, even within the scope of the EEA Agreement, to limit energy exports for specific societal reasons or whether EU market forces are stronger in Norway than in Germany?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1952	The government shares Sofie Marhaug's concern for the high electricity prices. We have therefore already proposed increasing the appropriations for housing aid, to cover an exceptional payment to recipients in those parts of the country with the highest electricity prices. The government also assesses other measures. Access to clean and reasonable power has been the industry’s foremost competitive advantage for decades. In the government statement, the Prime Minister pointed out that we need to ensure that Norwegian natural resources, including reasonable renewable energy, remain a competitive advantage in the long term. He also indicated that new inter-territorial relations with the rest of the world should not be recognised during this large-scale period. As I am familiar with, Germany has large transfer restrictions in the internal German the network, and therefore there are temporary limitations on how much power the German network can handle to receive from outside. Germany has a great deal of wind power production in the north and high consumption in the south, often facing internal balancing challenges. Germany has committed itself to escalating its capacity on international connections to 70 pst. by 2026 Both State networks and co-operation partners in other countries limit the transmission capacity of the foreign tables during periods for the purpose of the power system. However, there are other considerations than the price leading to those assessments, both here and in Germany and elsewhere. Limiting trade across international links in an effort to influence the price of power would be a breach of practice both in Norway and in our neighbouring countries, and it would also be contrary to our international obligations. Cross-border trade in power is regulated, inter alia: by the EEA Agreement, which shall facilitate the widest possible free trade in electricity, without barriers between countries. In addition, state networks and their partners in international communications enter into separate agreements on power trading. Limiting trade across international links will also lead to a risk that we are not guaranteed access to imports of force when we really need it. The Norwegian power system has been linked to the countries around us for decades. I guess that's what we've done. In the Hurdal platform, the government writes that it is now reasonable to determine how Norwegian exports of power affect Norwegian security of supply and Norwegian electricity prices, and what concrete measures can help to ensure that Norwegian renewable power remains a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry. The government has great ambitions in climate policy. We will create new, safe jobs for ordinary people throughout the country, and we will increase Norwegian exports considerably. If we're going to get this, we're going to need it. a lot of power. That's why we're going to expand more energy production, bet on sea wind, hydrogen, develop our hydropower and, not least, strengthen the grid to points where there's new high consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1975	Thanks for the answer. I would like to follow up on the issue of social concerns and security of supply. The Workers' Party Group decided to join the EU Energy Agency Acer in the previous period, but then the National Government of the Workers' Party made several mandatory demands. The very first requirement is as follows: ‘There shall be national and social control and control of hydropower resources.’;» Another requirement states that the Norwegian authorities shall have independent control ‘over all decisions relevant to energy security in Norway’. Earlier today, Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre has been talking about low-magazine periods. We are talking here about energy security for Norway, we are talking about supply in Norwegian magazines. Where is the limit to what can be considered as national and social control of energy security?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1989	Norwegian electricity prices are affected by many conditions, and with our renewable power supply, both temperature, rainfall and wind conditions are important. In addition, power prices are affected by the situation in the countries with which we act. The isolated impact of international connections on current Norwegian electricity prices is rather uncertain, but with a stronger link to Europe, we are, of course, more affected by the conditions there. In the case of electricity prices, good transmission links in Norway and increased power generation are important, and measures targeting those who are struggling when the electricity price becomes too high, such as: housing support. In Norway, we have been acting forcefully with our neighbouring countries for many decades. First of all, it has given us the opportunity to balance our weather-dependent power generation, and then trade has also given us revenues. As the President is aware, Norwegian power generation is mainly owned by Norwegian municipalities, county councils and the state, and this is how power trading generates revenues for the Municipality of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e1996	I thank you again for the answer and will follow up on asking whether these descriptions will also mean that you will reject the NorthConnect application that is currently pending. In the past, the new Council of State has answered written questions to gain experience from the new foreign tables. Now we see the consequences in South Norway. The NVE has already said that the long-term consequences will also be unstable and higher electricity prices in South Norway due to closer links with the European electricity market. Have we gained enough experience to say that we should refuse NorthConnect, not just put it back in the drawer? And how will energy exports be slowed in the future in a way that ensures energy security for the Norwegian state?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2001	I can assure the representative and the president that no further foreign tables will be built during this period. However, I believe it is important that we have some experience of how this works, because there are many different points of view, including in the social debate, about how the foreign tables work and do not work on the Norwegian power market and the Norwegian power situation. But I want to stress, since the time is running out, that we do not have a situation in Norway today where security of supply is at stake that we have trade with other countries related to power. We have a situation today where the magazines are low, but it is under good control of both State power and everyone involved, so that we have good security of supply in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2011	I too will be allowed to congratulate the Council of States, and I look forward to meeting here many Wednesdays ahead of time. ‘Telemarksavisa revealed on 20 October the history of an elderly woman sleeping in her own faeces and urine. The municipal apartment in Skien had stools on the walls and was full of food leftovers. This is beneath all dignity, and I'm concerned about all those with mental health challenges. I am also concerned that this is not an isolated case and can be proof that people who need to be admitted to an institution with daily treatment are not admitted. What will the Council of State do to ensure the dignity of this patient group?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2020	Of course, I cannot go into the individual matter that the representative is drawing on, in addition to saying that it makes an impression, but I would like to say something about what this government will prioritise in the future. As a clear priority, this government is building a better and comprehensive offer for people who are struggling with mental disorders. In the Hurdal platform we show that we have great ambitions both for the elderly and for people with mental problems and suffering. Older people have different needs, but all those in need of help should be confident that the community is set up and that they are viewed and met by health services in a respectful and dignified manner. We have a comprehensive job ahead of us. The government will ensure that older people who are able and willing to live in owner-occupied dwellings as far as possible and that they are organised to ensure that they are safe. We will also provide for several organised dwellings, and we will develop our own full-time escalation plan and good staffing in the care of the elderly. We want to increase the multidisciplinary nature of care for the elderly, because that's what we think is important, and strengthen the content of the service. We will also provide investment grants to municipalities to ensure adequate health care facilities, security housing and lucky day care facilities for those who need it. The government will correct unworthy mental health issues. We have announced a new step-up plan for the field, with earmarked funds, which will target both municipalities and specialist health services. We will look closely at both municipal services, mental health protection for children and young people, and district psychiatric centres and hospital psychiatry. In concrete terms, we have announced that the escalation must ensure increased capacity in the specialist health service and several low-threshold services in the municipalities. I would also like to say that the fixed medical system is the support bar in the Norwegian health service. The decision-maker is often the patient’s first meeting with healthcare and has a key role in the interaction across services and levels of these services. Here the government will strengthen the system and ensure a stable toy coverage throughout the country for them with the most comprehensive needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2035	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, but it was very general. A bit of the challenge especially with this case, which I hear the council says she will not go into, is that this happens for the second time in a short time, without anyone from the municipality or those who clearly have a responsibility to follow up, reacts. This is a municipal dwelling, and that means that there is a person who has a number of challenges in his life. This is a person who is not allowed to enter the mall and shops. You first experience it once, and there are neighbors who actually figure it out. This means that you should follow up with clear demands on the municipalities that you have a responsibility towards people who have such challenges as the person you are dealing with is in the middle of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2044	It is quite right that the representative points out: the municipalities have a responsibility. I also share Mr Hoksrud's concern about the capacity for day-to-day treatment. It's also one of the reasons why the Hurdal platform determines that we're going to stop the construction of daily places in psychiatry. This is well known to the representative, because the Progress Party has been a government party for seven of these eight years. There has been a partial professional development, but we say very clearly in this government platform that now we put a foot in the ground, and that we want a stepping-up plan for the whole mental health field, from low-threshold services in the municipalities to the heaviest psychiatry, and for those who need long-term follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2051	Again: Thanks for the answer and what the council says, and I am very happy that the council is very clear that things have to be done here. We also promoted a representative proposal today, which is just going on those who fall a little between two chairs, and where you are not sure where you really belong. So I think that's very good. This is really about small grips, it's about someone having to make sure to follow up when they come to the municipalities. So I would very much like to challenge the Council of State whether she can be a little clear that it is important that the municipalities are also aware of this responsibility, that you actually follow up when you get such feedback, and that it is a certain follow-up when you see that this repeats – also for those who live in the area around and experience this, and see the unworthiness that this person lives under – because it is completely unworthy to live like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2058	It is important that municipalities take care of their health and care responsibilities, and it is important for patients that there is good coordination around those who need a lot of help, those who need help from both the specialist health service and the municipality in which they live. That's why the Hurdal platform also says very clearly that we should look at relationships between the different levels of service in order to better attend to the patient's course, as we call it in the professional language, so that the patient does not sit between these famous chairs. It'll have priority. This is also linked to a stable and sound medical system. The decision is central to patients’ lives and often coordinates treatment and provision between levels of service. It is also about the ability of municipalities to strengthen themselves with the necessary skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2068	I have wrongly not included the whole reason – I am sorry: ‘Solberg government budget proposal cuts in the framework of agreements on state-funded care for the elderly in the municipalities. This poses major budgetary challenges for municipalities that, without notice, and during the contractual period, are being reduced by several million. Does the Council of State wish the Government to act as an unreliable contracting partner who does not award contracts or will the Council of State ensure that the Government corrects them in the next year’s budget?’.» That's where I didn't include the reasons for state-funded care. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2079	The question you have to ask is:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2084	The previous government has proposed to close the state funding of care services at the end of 2021. This is one year earlier than the planned end. The test started in 2016 and was scheduled to be completed in 2019. There are now eleven municipalities that have agreed to participate in this experiment. It appears that the financial challenges at closure are greatest for the four municipalities that have been involved in the experiment since 2016, but also for the Inner Eastfold municipality, which has participated in the pilot funding model in 2021. The financing document contains two decommissioning arrangements at the end. One is that all the eleven municipalities get 60 pst. of first year and 40 psts of assigned revenue. the second year after its completion. It's suggested to spend 86 million. kr for this in the State budget of the previous government. The second scheme is that the funds are transferred to the next financial year if the municipalities have unused grant funds at the end of the year of the experiment. These arrangements will be able to remedy the situation somewhat. The rapporteurs of the eleven municipalities participating in the experiment have contacted me. I have a great deal of understanding that the end of the experiment is coming quickly. This is the agreement of the previous government with the municipalities. Tomorrow there will be a meeting with these, where we will have a dialogue on the way forward. So for me, it's not a privilege to be able to say anything about the additional number of the budget for 2022 that the government is now working on. It is planned to be presented on 10 November. Here the government will make its overall assessment of next year's municipal framework for all municipalities and also the situation of the SIO municipalities – this state experiment is often shortened to SIO.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2095	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. It's right, as she says, that it's not this government that's responsible for this. The compensation schemes that have been proposed by the previous government, monies quite little, because it covers a very small part of the costs. I would then like to ask – perhaps the Minister of Health is satisfied with this, given that she has been an outstanding opponent of this project in the past, despite the fact that both employees, management, relatives and not least users have been very satisfied, and there have been many valuable experiences and lessons learned: Does the Minister really want to continue this irresponsible draft budget that has come from the Solberg government in the matter of state-funded care, which could lead to a lower level of service provision and major problems for the twelve municipalities concerned in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2100	As I said in the first answer, I won't be able to say so much about the priorities of the supplementary proposition. It's going to be presented in its entirety on 10 November. But it is no secret that the priority of the government parties has been to strengthen the ability of all municipalities to provide good health and care services. The attempt at state-funded care for the elderly has been evaluated, and unfortunately the evaluation has not given us the direction and knowledge that could have been desired when the project was started. This was a project that the Government Party wanted very clearly when it started in 2016. For us, it is important to take care of all the municipalities, to ensure that they have muscles to care for their care-for-health responsibilities. Then we'll meet and talk to the municipalities that are affected, and that, as a result of this breach of agreement with the previous government, gets a challenge next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2105	I represent Agder. Lillesand municipality with 11,000 inhabitants has now received a sub-coverage of 43 million. kr, without notice, without any information from the former government and the Ministry of Health, and they must find, search, 43 million. kr on next year's budget. This cut first appeared in the government budget presented by the Solberg government. In the worst case, both Lillesand and other municipalities may be placed on the ROBEK list because the State as a contracting partner appears to be both unreliable and irresponsible with the Solberg government budget. Will the Minister of Health continue this practice, or will the State honour its obligations out of 2022 as agreed, and thus appear as the Norwegian State should appear, as a stable and credible partner, which should be a minimum for the Norwegian State?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2112	I think that the Council of State and the representative of Nilsen can quickly agree that this is a poor maintenance of the state's end of an agreement between selected municipalities and the state. It's the full responsibility of the dwindling government. As late as the election campaign this year, there were visits to several of these municipalities, and no one was then given any indication that this was going to end. It is a challenge for which no current government can take responsibility. We make our assessments towards an additional proposition, where we give priority to strengthening the ability of all municipalities to provide sound health services. Then we have set up a dialogue with the municipalities concerned to gain more insight into the concrete challenges it presents to them. In addition to that, I have no additional proposition to present today, so the representative Nilsen does not get any more precise answers than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2120	‘In the patient’s healthcare system, patients are the most important, not the system. In the Hurdal platform, the patient’s healthcare is not mentioned in one single word. It shows a new course in health care. Does this mean that the government no longer believes that the patient’s needs are to be put first, and what does the Council of State think is the alternative to the patient’s healthcare?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2127	Norwegian patients shall have a world-class public health service, irrespective of their address and wallet. It's very clear on the Hurdal platform. Each patient shall be seen and met by healthcare in a respectful and dignified manner. The aim of our health and welfare policies is to create health-promoting societies, prevent disease and provide a decentralised healthcare service providing good and equivalent health services throughout the country. All the actions in our platform will contribute to this precisely. When we focus on the cohesion of social health differences, stabilisation of the fixed medical system or measures to improve the quality of mental health protection, it is precisely to provide patients with better health care that meets them and their needs. In order to succeed, we need to implement measures that provide better user experience and patient meetings, better health in the population and, in particular, efficient resource use. Not least, we need to invest in our most important resource, namely those who work in healthcare. We need to ensure that healthcare professionals have their time spent on patient contact, that they have good working conditions, thrive in their job and have the opportunity to develop their skills continuously. This is essential for good quality and patient safety, good patient experiences and wise resource use. The policy of the previous government to create the patient’s healthcare was based on market thinking and increased private use. This approach benefits the most, and can contribute to increased inequality. An example of this is free treatment choice. The evaluation shows that those who were given some increased freedom of choice through the scheme were also the most resource-intensive patients. This government will have a strong public health service, regardless of where you live or what you have in the bank account. It's not about putting the system in front of the patient. It's about building our common health service, which provides good treatment to all patients across the country near where people live.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2140	There is no doubt that the previous government has made a significant contribution to public health. As a result, health cows fell, and patients also experienced greater freedom of choice because they also used the available capacity of private operators. It's fine with words from the Hurdal platform, but we also need to know a little bit more about the content. In the patient’s healthcare system, packaging processes are important. It's about seeing the patient's needs, creating security, and knowing that we always ask the patient, what's important to you? I do not see the word «package trajectory» used at one point in the Hurdal platform. I see that the new government is talking about package solutions for mental health. Would the Minister for Health be able to clarify whether or not to abandon package thinking and to create package solutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2147	The fact that the waiting time for treatment goes down is very good. This means that you get good use of the capacity and avoid unnecessary waiting when you are going to get treatment. There has been a development since 2010. I hear that the representative Troeen says it is fine with words, but I feel that the representative Troeen is looking for the Right word. I hope that the representative Troeen looks at the efforts and measures that lie in the Hurdal platform. One of the main focus is on improving the patient profile – that patients who need both specialist health services and services in the municipality in which they live should receive a better and more holistic service. The right has chosen to call it a package course, to have standardised patient processes within different treatments. It has been against the Workers' Party. But just for mental health protection, we're going to take a foot in the ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2154	Then I can lead out of this brief conversation that the new government doesn't want to bet on the package sequence, which we have carried out for a number of cancers, for a number of other diseases, for muscle and skeletal disorders, and also in mental health protection. I then understood from the council that you are going away from the package progress solutions and that you are going to create package solutions. I think it is very difficult for patients – and perhaps also for health care employees – to really understand what it is. Packing processes have contributed to faster treatment, shorter waiting time and greater safety for patients, and not least the most important thing in Norwegian healthcare: that resources find each other quickly, that it is quickly clarified where the patient is going to be at the time and who is responsible. So I'm actually asking the Council of State to elaborate further on whether package arrangements are no longer part of healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2159	I have to admit that I find it a bit difficult to understand the representative Troeen, because what I said very clearly in my answer is that the standard patient sequence has always been in favour of the Workers' Party. Calling it a package sequence was something that came on the Right Guard. My predecessor took over a cancer strategy from then Health Minister Jonas Gahr Støre, who pointed towards standardised treatment courses. Then we got the package sequences, and there are no plans from the current government to change the package sequences for cancer. It's diagnostic-based treatment sequences. What the Hurdal platform says is that for mental health protection, experience is not good. There we take a foot in the ground. And securing the patient's course is actually a major priority in this government statement, and it also goes beyond the diagnostic-specific processes, which I find the representative Treen is concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2166	We go back to question 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2174	This question, from the representative of Turid Kristensen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2179	"When the gender equality field was moved to the Ministry of Culture, the current Minister for Culture and Gender Affairs said to the Newspaper that it was "hairy, embarrassing and sluggish", "equality policy is inextricably linked to family policy" and "equality policy has nothing to do in the Ministry of Culture". The Hurdal platform reverses a lot, but not everything. Is the Council of State in agreement with its colleague of government in these statements, and will the Council restore the gender equality field to the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs?’ Since the question has been transferred to the Council of State Trettebergstuen, I have changed the wording a little bit, so my question to the Council of State is therefore: Does the Council of State today agree with its own statements of 2019, and will the Council of State wish to restore the gender equality field to the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2186	I thank you for the question. When the representative wrote the question, the government was already appointed, and if we were to move some of the portfolios to the departments, we would have done it from the start. So no, we're not going to move the gender equality portfolio back to the Child and Family Department. I am very pleased that I am now Minister of Culture and Gender Equality, and that the equality name once again comes in as a personal name. It comes into the name of the ministry on 1 January 2022. I want to remind the representative what was the political setting around that I said what I said at the time. The reason why the portfolio was moved from the Ministry of Children and Family to the Ministry of Culture was that women's right to decide over their own bodies became a negotiation card to get the Christian People's Party into the government. The abortion law was tightened. The Christian People's Party was given a veto on all biotechnological issues, and the then Prime Minister, Erna Solberg, appointed a child and family minister who would not stand up for important issues of equality. Therefore, the portfolio had to be moved. That's why equality was moved from the Ministry of Children and Family to the Ministry of Culture, not because it was important for the equality portfolio itself, not to promote the field, but to hide it away, nor for those working on it to get better conditions. Yes, that's how the representative quoted me, that equality is still inextricably linked to family policy. That is why the Council of State Toppe and I will cooperate well in these policy areas. We're going to spend time on real policy and on bringing equality forward, not on ministerial exchanges. I am proud and happy to have been given responsibility for cultural and gender policy and, as I said, we are going to pursue an offensive equality policy. After eight years of equality in reverses, the gear shifted. Now we're in the drive, and we're going to run on as long as we're in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2195	Thanks for the answer. That was clarifying. I do not fully agree with the description, but I am sure that the Council of State will be an excellent Minister for Gender Equality. The Minister of Culture has also previously criticised the government of Solberg for a number of issues, such as: the culture-enhancing scheme. Nor is this mentioned as the location of the equality field in the Hurdal platform. This is a scheme that has been a success since it was established in 2014 and a scheme that has since then contributed to cultural life over 3.2 billion. kr. The working party has programmed to wind up the scheme. The centre party has expressed itself critically, but does not have it in its programme, i.e. that they have removed a point of progressive dwindling from their second draft. What is the position of the Council of State and Government today on the continuation of the gift-enhancing scheme in the cultural field? Will the government reverse or maintain this arrangement?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2202	I want to remind the representative that one must try to stick to the topic under consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2207	I had been glad that we were going to have some rounds of equality now, but we could also talk a little bit about gift enhancement. That is right, as the representative says – the Workers’ Party opposed the introduction of the gift-enhancing scheme, and we have proposed it removed in our alternative budgets. It's simply because we think it's not good use of public money that they're going to go to the institutions and the actors that do one thing, and that's to be able to attract private money. We believe that public money over the cultural budget should be allocated as needed and with a more geographical and better distribution profile than the gift enhancement scheme provides. Then comes the boring answer to the question, and that's that the things that are about the budget, the Storting will get an answer to when the supplementary proposition comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2214	I am sorry, but I checked with the secretariat, and it should be inside, but I now understand that this was outside. I take note of that. I register that this we cannot get a final answer on yet, so I will lubricate myself with patience. But as a follow-up to cultural funding, I am pleased that the Hurdal platform is continuing a strong public initiative in the field of culture. An important principle here is the relationship between cultural life and politicians, the so-called arm's length distance. Right went to the elections to continue working for a free cultural life. I find nothing quite similar in the platform, but to the website musikkultur.no stated Per Mangset, who is Professor Emeritus in cultural studies and senior researchers at Telemarksforsking, just after the election that the Ministers of Culture of the Workers Party have had a tradition of taking more action in the field of culture than other ministers of culture, for example. when Minister of Culture Giske in 2006 almost instructed the Council of Culture to support Jo Strömgren’s dance company. Will the Council of State more than its predecessors respect the principle or let cultural life itself govern its choices?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2221	I do not see that this question is entirely within the theme either, but the Council of State will have to decide whether it will answer or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2226	I would love to. I like the question. Let it be quite clear that the Hurdal platform says clearly that we should not just continue a strong public commitment to culture – no, we must raise culture politically and economically. We're going to build a new cultural promise where culture's appropriations for the state budget will again rise to 1 pst. It'll mean a lot to the whole cultural field. Nor is there any doubt that we are defenders of and will maintain the important principle of arm's length distance from cultural life. It is that art and culture should be free. The task of politicians is to facilitate more people to work with and create culture and good experiences for people all over the country, no matter where we live, the size of our wallet or who we are.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2238	‘In September, the Solberg Government presented a sport strategy to help strengthen sport following the pandemic. The strategy presents measures to contribute to the resumption of activity in the short term. It is important to ensure that the pandemic does not lead to increased social differences in participation. In addition, the strategy presents actions to contribute to diversity and inclusion. In total, 179 million were disposed of. crowns for sport purposes through action in the strategy. How will the Council of State follow up the strategy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2245	The fact that more people – regardless of the size of your wallet, who your parents are, or where in your country – will enjoy participating in sports and activity is one of our most important tasks in the future. The previous government helped to pursue a policy that increased the differences in our country, and the pandemic has reinforced the trend that the government in a wild policy has already set in motion. For me, the Norwegian sports model is one of the finest in Norwegian society. I could say very well about that, but we shouldn't stop by fine formulations and party speeches. The Hurdal Platform contains several concrete measures to ensure good framework conditions for sport and physical activity. One of the most important things is full VAT compensation, which is simple, unbureaucratic and reaches out widely to teams and associations across the country. That's what we're gonna do. The gear shaft needs to go down. Therefore, the offer of free lending of training and leisure equipment should also be raised. Persons with disabilities shall have the same opportunities for participation as others, and children and young people shall have access to attractive activities, both in sports and through self-organised sports and physical activity. This government looks at Norway's sports association as a partner, not an opponent, and we're going to work with them to get the participation back up to at least the same level as before the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2256	Now I could ask about the leisure card, but I'm going to leave it behind because it's under another state council. I do not feel that I actually received an answer to the question I asked. It was quite specific about the sport strategy that has been put forward, which has very short-term immediate action to re-establish activity, while many of the good measures that the Council of State mentioned here are measures that take a little longer to implement there in teams and associations. So I want to repeat the question: what do you see that you want to do in the short term to avoid that the reopening after the pandemic will be without very many of those who may not have come back?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2263	I didn't want to get to that in my previous answer. The sports strategy has been put forward, it is there, and the government has allocated money to a couple of different projects through the games. Let's go. The sports strategy is there. We had probably been waiting for an overall big message about sport, but it was the previous government that chose to put forward a strategy. Then it's not that the sports strategy and the measures that the previous government pointed to there are enough to lift the sport as we want to do it. That is why I am bringing forward these measures in the Hurdal platform, which are important for both sport, culture and volunteering, for teams and associations across the country, and which will make a concrete contribution to the participation of more people, especially children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2270	Thanks for the answer. I also believe that the answer is both immediate and long-term. I also hope that the Council of State and the government will give priority to a sports message, which became a strategy because of the pandemic and the way out of it. On a number of occasions, the Minister of Culture has also highlighted this with facilities as an important factor in realising and creating activity, and at the sporting event a week and a half ago, she said – happily, I would say – that ‘we are going to catch up for sports facilities’. We know that the lag in sports facilities is up to 5 billion. kr, a significant sum, but this particular point is nothing left in the Hurdal platform. So the question to the Council of State is, what should be given priority if something is to be done about the five billion in the aftermath of construction around the whole country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2277	The representative is right that the aftermath is so great. I am pleased that the representative Pettersen is engaged in this now, a week after he himself was held responsible for this when his party was in government, and where they did not lift a finger to do anything with this lag. It is huge, but we have said – and it is also stated in the Hurdal platform – that we are going to come up with a plan for how we can prioritise installations and get involved and get something done here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2297	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2305	‘An important prerequisite for learning is to be present at school. Many learn too little and drop out. However, the formulation of the absence limit in the Hurdal platform raises more questions than answers about what changes we can expect, and the consequences of these. What does the Council of State suggest that the absence limit should be less rigid and bureaucratic and fairer, and how will the Council of State ensure that, in the future, the absence limit will also help to reduce unnecessary absenteeism in secondary school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2312	Let me start by thanking you for a good and very important question and stressing that the government's clear goal is that students should be as present at school as possible. Students who are not present miss both learning and the social environment. When students are not present, it is more difficult to find out who is struggling and needs follow-up. Therefore, this government will work for a school where the students thrive and want to be, and a code that supports this. Since the autumn of 2016, we have had a national absence limit in high school. The general rule is that if a student has more than 10 pst. undocumented absence in a subject, the student will not become a character in that subject. Through several evaluations, we have seen that the absence limit has contributed to less absence in higher education. Those students who had the most absence before the absence limit have had the greatest decline. This, of course, I believe is positive, and I do not want to make changes that contribute to more absence. Although the absence limit has had positive effects, it is not perfect. I would like to stress that the evaluation has also shown that it has problematic aspects. Some of the students who previously did not qualify in just one subject have now begun to lack a character in several subjects. This means that for some of the most vulnerable students, the path to completing secondary education has become longer. In addition, several have pointed out that the absence limit contributes to capacity challenges for permanent doctors and has been particularly demanding in the transition from the pandemic to a normal everyday life with increased preparedness. I think it is important to look at the absence regulations in high school. It is important that we have legislation that plays with our students, including the most vulnerable. It should not be the case that school legislation helps to make the road even heavier for those who are already struggling. However, this is a work that requires us to hurry somewhat slowly. It is important that any changes to the rules of absence do not create new challenges and that we actually solve the problems there. I want to use the time to listen and learn from those who wear the shoes, both teachers, students and others who are affected. I think we all agree on the goal here: a school where the students thrive, is present and learns as much as possible. And then it's important that the legislation doesn't become unnecessary stumbling blocks for the students. What the concrete changes in the absence regulation will be, I will come back to at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2327	I'm glad to hear that the Council of State will keep an absence limit. Then I would like to remind you that the absence limit has contributed to the total absence in high school being reduced by 27 p.m., and that more people complete and exist. So I'm going to ask if what the council says, that means you're going to consider raising the threshold, so raise the percentage. In this case, how does the government feel that it should contribute to more implementations, which are the objective of the Hurdal Platform?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2334	I think what is the entrance to change the rules of absence for the better is that you don't have as rigid rules as today. This has been practiced differently through different times, but what was more obvious than today's rules was that there was more opportunity for use of discretion. The goal is for more students to be more present at school, for school to be a place to learn and develop. I think it would be a pity to continue to make rules of absence that do not contribute to calmness, which does not help students and teachers to feel that the rules are reasonable – that they are perceived as fair to the student. I don't think I'm going to be shooting at just how this solution is going to be, but I certainly believe that having some more flexibility and insight into this code is crucial both for the individual student and because this government is committed to demonstrating trust in our teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2343	Governments come up with the reform of trust, and I would like to ask a question: how will the use of local discretion be arranged in such a way that one does not avoid catching up with the students who need to be captured? The absence limit has also helped to open a door for those who need some extra help. Local trust reform can probably also be designed in such a way that local beauty gets in the way of individual lives being caught. How will the Council of State ensure that this does not happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2348	I think it is good that we have an absence rule that gives an incentive that something happens if a student has a lot of absence. I think that must be the line we work along the way in order to put in place rules that contribute more to calming down, and that also helps teachers and students to understand the rules equally. The fact that there is a mechanism that makes you have to grips if a student is a lot away is a good thing, and I think we have to have it with us in the future. I think the way we run the school, maybe we've been a little bit too impressed by the fact that we set individual goals and individual requirements for decision making and impose it on the school. I believe that the time has come to see more that we may politically decide the goal and give something more freedom to the individual school and the individual teacher to consider for themselves what will happen in the individual classroom – how this should be handled. But I want to get back to the details of the rules of absence.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2355	Question 29, from the representative Margeret Hagerup to the Minister of Knowledge, will be addressed by the representative Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2363	On behalf of Mr Hagerup, Mr Hagerup, Mr Hagerup, Mr Hagerup, Mr Hagerup, Mr Hagerup, Mr Hagerup, Mr Hagerup, Mr Hagerup, Mr Hagerup, Mr Hagerup, Mr Hagerup, Mr Hagerup, Mr Hagerup, Mr Hagerup, Mr Hagerup, Mr Hagerup, Mr Hagerup, Mr Hagerup, Mr Hagerup, Mr Hagerup, Mr Hagerup, Mr Hagerup, Mr Hagerup, Mr Hagerup, Mr Hagerup, ‘Basic skills in reading, writing and billing are essential for the success of young people through school and entering the labour market. The Workers' Party has, through several election campaigns, spoken warmly about a reading, writing and calculation guarantee. I then wonder that this is completely missing in the government statement. Can the Council of State respond to whether the Government will issue this guarantee, or whether someone is going away from it?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2372	It is nice to see almost the representative Hagerup, but the more pleasant to actually see the representative Sanner. I believe that both the representative Sanner and I agree that learning to read, write and calculate is an essential part of the school's community mission. Skills are also important for the development of students' identity and social relationships. They are crucial prerequisites for democratic participation in society and for lifelong learning and development, and they are well anchored in today's curriculum. The overall part of the curriculum underlines that the school should facilitate the development of basic skills through the 13-year training cycle. In the curricula, skills are part of the competence of the subjects, and they are described from the earliest stages and throughout the school cycle. In other words, we have a curriculum that provides students with a good basis for reading, writing and billing early, but also for students to train systematically on skills beyond school. That being said, there is no doubt that some students do not get a good enough basis for reading, writing and calculating early in school. This causes students to experience failure and lack of mastery and to have problems later in school. This was some of the reasons why the Stoltenberg II government introduced early interventions as a basic principle in Norwegian education in 2006 through St.meld. No 16 for 2006–2007, ‘... and no one stood still — early efforts for lifelong learning’. As stated in the Storing Communication, Norwegian education was characterized by a waiting-and-see attitude. But the belief that problems are gradually resolved does not match what we have of research and knowledge. Instead, measures shall be put in place as soon as problems and challenges are discovered. Statutory rights to kindergarten, several school hours in Norwegian and mathematics at kindergarten, screening tests in, among others. after-school reading and billing and teaching have been some of the concrete actions implemented on the basis of the main message. There is no doubt that early efforts have been very effective both in education policy and in Norwegian classrooms over the last 10–15 years. It also has it in the Hurdal platform. The read, write and calculation guarantee of the working party is operationalised in the Hurdal platform, among others. by increasing the competence of kindergarten to a historically high level, reducing the threshold into kindergarten at a lower maximum price, improving the transition from kindergarten to school, and using the practical and aesthetic subjects much more actively than before to train basic skills. In total, this is not just a continuing effort on early efforts; we are really talking about a turning point to previous efforts. This, of course, also implies a commitment to the basic skills, insofar as the representative was really in doubt about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2389	I have no doubt that the Council of State believes that basic skills are important, and I am also well aware of the new curricula and innovations. However, the Council of State does not answer the question of whether the Workers' Party is still standing firm by having a reading, writing and calculation guarantee, or whether it is such that the Workers' Party in the Government has gone away from this. When you read through the Hurdal platform, there's nothing there about basic skills. On the other hand, it says that the qualifications of teachers in Norwegian, English and math should be reduced, and that the scope of tests and tests should be reduced – it can also be about screening tests and national tests, for what I know. So the question is, is it that the Labour Party in the government has left the guarantee of student reading, writing and calculating skills?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2394	I think the representative Sanner wants to continue this discussion longer than strictly necessary, because it is consistently so that there is knowledge that is the guiding element of all the policies that are about the school and kindergarten field in the government platform. As stated in the Platform, the core of government education policy is to ‘give students good skills, skills and a broad basis for further education, work and participation’. The new curriculum is a good starting point for getting this right. But it is important to stress that curricula describe the intentions and direction of Norwegian school. The major task is to realise the intentions and objectives of the school in practice. As Minister of Knowledge, I want to work with the school myself. I think we can succeed in getting a step further if we talk less about who issued what guarantee, and more about actual knowledge and learning in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2403	I fully agree that the new curricula that I had the pleasure of working with and establishing provide a very clear direction for the basic skills – which are key skills for a lot of subjects. It's not just about reading, writing and calculating: if you can read and write, it's also the key to other subjects. What makes me need to drill in this is that there's nothing on the Hurdal platform. It's now that what you think is most important, you fall into a platform, but I get the impression that everything is about as important. I then interpret the Council of State as meaning that the Workers' Party in the Government does not stand for a read, write and calculate guarantee. But can the Council confirm that the intensive training related to reading, writing and billing is constant?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2410	That knowledge and more knowledge in school itself is a major and important goal for this government, there is no doubt about it. As the representative Sanner himself stresses, there are five key basic skills that underpin our entire curriculum. I guess it would have been a little bit of a prudence if, as Minister of Knowledge, I had thought that the five basic elements would no longer apply. Of course, there are knowledge and skills in being able to read, write, calculate, make verbally good reasoning and understand and use digital tools that form the basis of this government as well. That's not the goal it's on, that's how we achieve those goals. As Minister of Knowledge, I am busy getting to the bottom of what is preventing our students from learning more in our schools. For goals and ambitions, what it has lacked from any government in modern times is not what it is about – it's implementation and more actual knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2424	This question lapses, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2433	Here we go! My question is: ‘What is the attitude of the Council of State to bring IS women to Norway and how does it assess the safety risk to the Norwegian people by doing so?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2440	With regard to the government's view on the question of bringing women to Norway, I refer primarily to the Foreign Minister's answer to question 8, from the representative Listhaug, in this questioning. All Norwegian citizens have the right to enter Norway. This also applies to suspected foreign fighters and their children, but foreign fighters will be prosecuted after returning to Norway. It is not only actively fighting who is being prosecuted, it is also people who have contributed in other ways. Under the criminal law, this can be done, inter alia: result in penalties for forming, participating in, recruiting members or providing other material support to a terrorist organisation which has taken steps to realise the purpose of illegal means. I would also like to point out that it is the police security service that assesses what are current threats in Norway. On extreme Islamism, PST says that it is possible that people from such environments will try to commit terror here at home. In this context, I am committed to stress that if suspected foreign fighters come to Norway, they will be punished. This means that it will be up to the prosecution to decide any action for these women if they come here. In addition to criminal prosecution legislation in such cases, the Norwegian authorities closely cooperate with many countries to counter radicalisation and prevent violent extremism in Norway. In the Hurdal platform, the government has determined that we should set down an extremist commission to investigate how extremism arises, and learn more about what measures are effective in preventing and combating radicalisation and extremism. Further, we will, among other things, establish an exit programme for recriminals and extremists which improves the possibility of permanently breaking out of such environments. We also need to develop a new action plan against racism, extremism and radicalisation. Although we can never guarantee a ‘zero-risk’, this will give us important instruments for terrorism and radicalisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2451	The Minister of Justice referred a lot to the law, and October 20 this year a 20-year-old boy was shot at Mortensrud here in Oslo. The police today have called two brothers for the killing. These are two brothers who have been convicted of IS terrorists, a short time ago, they were convicted in 2016, but have already moved on to commit a new killing. Does the Council of State consider that there is no significant safety risk that the government is unwilling to state unambiguously that it is not appropriate under any circumstances to bring IS terrorists to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2456	I cannot comment on the individual issues, and these are also issues that are still under investigation. But on a general basis, I can say that the government is taking violence in Oslo and elsewhere in the country in the greatest seriousness. As I said in my first answer, it is also an important objective for us to work against extremism and radicalisation in Norway because there are environments that can be a potential threat and pose a potential threat to the population. There are issues that have a high priority for us, and the police too are following closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2461	It is an important theme to combat all forms of extremism in Norway, to the greatest extent. But it doesn't make the situation much easier if, knowingly and willfully, you choose to import people who have extremist attitudes, and that's why the Progress Party is so clear that for us it's not appropriate to bring IS terrorists to Norway. I record that the government just says that as a general rule they will not do so, and thus the government implicitly says that there may be several individual cases where it is relevant. If I am wrong, I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice can immediately demand that there may be individual cases where it is relevant for the government to bring the IS terrorists home. But we also see that in several of the camps major terrorist acts have been averted, at the latest in recent times, and then it is interesting to hear how the Council of State believes it affects the risk assessment if people are brought back from these camps.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2466	The government is dealing with the threat assessments we get from our services. As for the question of bringing women home, I would like to repeat what I said first, namely that it is within the responsibility of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and must be corrected there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2475	It is nice to have the Minister of Justice in place in Stortinget again. I think there'll be more visits here in the future. I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘What will it cost in financial resources and human resources to restore 20 police posts and where should the money be taken from?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2484	The government is committed to ensuring accessible police and security for citizens throughout the country. It is a priority area for the government, and you can see that in the Hurdal platform. It appears that the government will strengthen local police throughout the country, both to ensure better prevention and to speed up response to serious incidents. The population has great confidence in the Norwegian police. Nevertheless, we have seen that the confidence in the police is the lowest where people live, and where it is far from the police. We want a police officer who's there when it's needed, and more places of employment are one of the tools to get to it. We're going to start with that work in 2022. The adjustment of the service structure and the establishment of places of employment shall take place in the context of geographical challenges, crime prevention and police preparedness. The government is also concerned that there should be good dialogue; the establishment of posts should take place in dialogue with municipalities and police districts. We have to take the time to do it properly and to have that dialogue. I want to listen to those who know local conditions, when we're going to get back to where these offices are going, and how we're going to do it. We need to look at the manning of the individual department. In the Hurdal platform, it is also a clear goal for the government to have a minimum staff. It is too early to decide on the specific matter here and now. I'll listen to professional advice, and we'll come back to the administrative and economic consequences later on. It will also have to be dealt with in a budgetary process.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2495	Thanks for the answer, which was not an answer to what I asked for, but it was explained why one is not able to answer. What you can think of is why you've now reached 20 positions, when you don't know exactly what the criteria are, and you don't know where they're going to be. Where does the 20 come from? Is that how to understand that the Center Party thought it was okay with the more than 80 others who were not then reinstated? Can we interpret it there that 20 is a number that's taken a little bit out of the air, without any predictions at all – that one has agreed on 20 because it was a nice and round number? Isn't there any professional behind this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2502	There is an important difference between this government and the right-wing government that has recently gone off, and it is that we want to look at how we can take action to bring the police closer to people by establishing places of employment where they have been too far away, while the previous government rather chose to lay down police posts. Our job of strengthening the police and ensuring good preparedness for the inhabitants of the country is long-term. Now Erna Solberg and Right have been running for eight years, and it will take time to reverse the evolution you've had so far. We're going to sit down and do a thorough job both with the goal of establishing 20 new places of employment and with other things we want to do in the police, among other things. to evaluate the impact of the close police reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2509	That reform has made sure that there has never been more police in Norway. We have reached the target of two policemen per thousand inhabitants in Norway. At all, the police are stronger than ever in this country. I note that the Council of State cannot answer as to why one has agreed on exactly 20 new police posts to be put in place. I can ask you another way: is it that it was possible to remove 86 of them, but not the last 20? I don't get the whole argument to relate. Is it like this is just 'thinking of a number', or does it have a clear plan for how to put these 20 places in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2516	In the long-term work we're going to do, I'm glad we're starting. We're going to start working on new places of employment in 2022, and I want to say that it's a good government that has a clear goal of actually getting new places of work in place. I'm happy to continue working on it. Our goal is on a general basis to bring the police closer to people. We have to listen to municipalities and the police locally. From a number of places in the country we have received signals that the police coverage is too low, and that we feel that the preparedness is not good enough. These are the challenges we want to take seriously, and we're going to get back to during the job we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2526	I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the new Minister of Justice to Stortinget. ‘Why will the government reverse the judicial reform when both the Association of Judges and the sorenists are against, and despite the reform strengthening people’s legal certainty?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2533	The government wants independent local-led courts. We believe that this is important for reasons of both the professional environment and not least the working environment of the courts. This government is concerned with the distribution of power, and several independent courts mean greater spread of power. Norway has been decentralizing power in the form of sorenists for hundreds of years, and we still want that. I believe it raises some fundamental questions that this power is now centralized to only 23 sorenists. The government therefore wants to reintroduce the structure of the courts before the reform. I am aware that there are divided opinions in this case, and that, among other things, The Union of Judges and sorenists is opposed to a reversal of the reform. At the same time, there are other actors who want to reintroduce the old structure or who never wanted the reform at all. This applies, inter alia, to: several municipalities and employees in the courts. In its time, 180 rapporteurs signed a treaty against the reform. In its further work, the government will be concerned about having a good process, and we will involve and listen to stakeholders. That is why we have also said that there will be exceptions where the municipalities of the judiciary, the judges and the employees of the courts, represented by the trade unions, agree that it is best to maintain the structure of the day, as is also stated in the Hurdal platform. The reform was introduced in the spring of 2021. That's why I think it's too early to say something about the impact of the reform, and too early to conclude that it has strengthened people's legal certainty. Government parties have consistently considered that there was no need to change the structure in order to improve the use of resources and increase flexibility in the courts. The government will look at other measures to facilitate better cooperation between courts and to reduce the vulnerability of smaller courts. In this way, we will ensure that citizens throughout the country are guaranteed a good court offer. It will also be important to follow up the criticism and recommendation of the National Audit Office to increase the flexibility of resource use between courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2542	Thanks for the answer. The Hurdal platform states that the government will: ‘Implementation of the structure of the courts before the court reform of 2021 in order to preserve the legal security of citizens and to ensure the independence of the municipal courts, with the exception of courts in which courts of law, courts of the courts and tribunals, and those appointed by their trustees, agree to maintain the structure of the day.’ The question to the Council of State is: does it mean that one head of court, all the municipalities or all the employees must agree, or is it enough that only one municipality or one employee will have the old structure back?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2552	In this case, we should also do a thorough job and have a good process that allows us to get input from everyone who is affected by this. But the platform is quite clear at this point – we want to go out wide and get input from both municipalities, courts and employees. Then there are probably also others who will want to make their recordings. The process in this is something that I've started working with, and that we have to come back to when it's done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2557	More than me wonder about the principle of this, and the last question from me in this round is: Does the Minister of Justice think that the organisation of the judiciary should be part of municipal autonomy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2562	Clearly, the judicial authority is independent. When it comes to organisation, it's a political question, and in this case, it's important to listen to everyone who has opinions on this, and we'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2567	With that, the ordinary question mark is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-27.ana.ud17e2581	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
