ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e30	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representatives of the Bears Moxnes, Petter Eide and Morten Stordalen, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. They called the alternates for Nordland and Oslo, Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen and Per Espen Stoknes respectively, have taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e62	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e67	On behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Nicholas Wilkinson, Eirik Faret Sakariassen, Arne Nävra, Lars Haltbrecken and I will present a proposal for a representative to make the fight against inequality and tax havens a major effort in Norwegian foreign and development policy. On behalf of the representatives Freddy André Øvstegård, Nicholas Wilkinson, Eirik Faret Sakariassen, Lars Haltbrecken, Torgeir Knag Fylkenes, Karin Andersen and the undersigned, I will also present a proposal for a representative on fair housing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e74	The representative, Helge André Njåstad, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e79	On behalf of the representatives of Sivert Bjørnstad, Morten Ørsal Johansen, Bengt Rune Strifeldt, Kjell-Børge Freiberg, Terje Halleland, Himanshu Gulati, Åshild Bruun-Gundersen, Roy Steffensen, Tor André Johnsen and myself, I have delighted to make proposals to strengthen Norwegian private ownership by removing the property tax on food. Then, on behalf of the representatives of Hanne Dyveke Søttar, Kjell-Børge Freiberg, Morten Ørsal Johansen, Roy Steffensen, Sivert Bjørnstad and myself, I am delighted to propose a «critical review of safeguards to simplify construction processes and strengthen ownership».
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e86	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e91	On behalf of the representatives of Tor André Johnsen, Åshild Bruun-Gundersen, Erlend Wiborg, Helge André Njåstad and myself, I am delighted to propose to introduce a 120 km speed limit on the motorway. On behalf of the representative Sylvi Listhaug and myself, I am also delighted to make proposals on regional odontological centres of competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e99	The representative, Sivert Bjørnstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e104	On behalf of the representatives Bengt Rune Strifeldt, Himanshu Gulati, Erlend Wiborg and myself, I am delighted to make proposals to enable the creation of individual companies for 16-year-olds.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e109	The representative of Morten Stordalen will present three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e114	On behalf of the representatives Sylvi Listhaug, Bård Hoksrud, Kari Kjenaas Kjos and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to ensure the dignity and organisation of dental services for people who have suffered torture, assault or have odontophobia. Furthermore, I will put forward proposals on behalf of Bård Hoksrud, Hans Andreas Limi, Terje Halleland, Gisle Meininger Saudland, Bengt Rune Strifeldt, Tor André Johnsen and myself to wind up the zero growth target. In addition, I will make proposals on behalf of Bård Hoksrud, Hans Andreas Limi, Terje Halleland, Gisle Meininger Saudland, Tor André Johnsen, Bengt Rune Strifeldt, Sylvi Listhaug and myself to facilitate the sale of petrol and diesel cars after 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e123	The representative, Mr André Johnsen, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e128	On behalf of the representative, Bård Hoksrud and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to implement the decision to lift health certification requirements for older drivers. I also enjoy promoting a representative proposal on behalf of Bård Hoksrud and myself to wind up the dot load system in road traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e135	The representative, Siv Mossleth, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e140	It is a pleasure to present proposals by the representatives of Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Bengt Fasteraune, Nils T. Bjørke and myself to allow the passing of category T and B driving licences to qualify for category BE.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e145	The representative, Jon Engen-Helgheim, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e150	On behalf of the representatives of Christian Tybring-Gjedde and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to ensure Norwegian access to its own immigration policy and say no to the EU’s New Pact on Migration and Asylum. And on behalf of the representatives of Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Sylvi Listhaug, Siv Jensen and myself, I want to put forward a proposal to use Norway's role in the UN Security Council to take a Norwegian initiative to set up an international criminal court for IS terrorists.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e157	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e163	I want to make a proposal on behalf of Mona Fagerås, Nicholas Wilkinson and myself on a long-term plan for children and young people. Then I will put forward a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Eirik Faret Sakariassen, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Nicholas Wilkinson and myself to introduce an aberrant cohabitation law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e170	The representative of Mr Lene Vågslid will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e175	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Martin Henriksen, Maria Aasen-Svensrud, Anette Trettebergstuen and myself to wind up the law of Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e180	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e196	On Wednesday, 31 March, the Stortinge received a notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Mr Røe Isaksen, Mr Bakke-Jensen and Mr Rotevatn, will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The President intends to wind up the oral question procedure by 5 p.m. 11.30 and will match the number of follow-up questions accordingly. Furthermore, the President requests that representatives contribute by respecting established speaking time. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jette F. Christensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e207	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. The matter of Bergen Engines is becoming a long story. It is about uncertainty – for employees, for companies and for the safety work of the government. It tells us about weak safety culture. It tells of the lack of follow-up of safety assessments that explicitly warn against strategic purchase and investment as a threat to national security. There is a study of poor handling, rotting use of the Security Act, weak coordination between departments and some kind of NM internally in the government to blame on the government when things go wrong. The sum of this is that we are now left with an uncertainty as to whether the security law has been properly used elsewhere. It gives the impression that there is a lack of safety competence in the ministry and coordination between them. Because while the Ministry of Economic Affairs states that this is a matter that the Department should not interfere with, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs gives guarantees to the company in a miles of Facebook thread, icy smileys and blue hearts, that the sale will not be stopped, while the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence have later said that the Security Act will be assessed in the same period. So what's going on, really? Is this an example of poor coordination? Is there a lack of safety competence? Or did they simply tell the truth that the sale had not been assessed at the time, even though the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence have said so? What I'm trying to figure out is whether it's a lie or a lack of procedures for security we're facing, or both.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e220	No, no one's lying. This is a complicated matter, and using the Safety Act to stop a sale of a company has many implications. This is a matter in which I will answer for the constitutional responsibility I have. I have noticed that in the media we are accused of protecting ourselves behind the office. We don't. The reason we sent information to Stortinget when the matter of communication from the U.D. came up was that we have an information obligation. It is also the way that we use energy to care for the employees in the U.D. who have worked on this matter. For the defence, we have been concerned about whether the defence needs, the marine defence needs, are sufficient to stop the sale, and on written questions from this representative – and from other representatives – I have said that it is not. But we continue to work on the matter now, which led to a conclusion after a while that there was a basis for stopping the sale. These are complex issues that we can address in many sectors, which, as the representative rightly says, will imply a risk that jobs can be put at risk. Therefore, it is important that we deal with the matter from all sides. It has also been important for us to make it clear that we look at all aspects of the case, precisely because we then show that we are dealing with it thoroughly, and that we are taking seriously both the safety situation for Norway and the turbulence we get around Norwegian jobs in this type of ownership transfer. I look forward to the Committee examining the statement we have made. I believe that Stortinget now has good opportunities to get into the matter, and then we come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e233	There's a fuzzy timeline here, to be careful. For if the emergency brake in the Safety Act was so up to date that the Council of State later stated, why did he answer anything else to me in written question delivered on 22 February? He writes: «Bergen Engines AS is not subject to the Safety Act under § 1-3 of the Act and thus Section 10-1 of the Act on Ownership Control does not apply in this case.» You have to be quite creative to interpret it as something other than that the Security Act will not be used here. I don't have that creativity. Had that sentence been followed by a ‘but we are now considering the matter against the Safety Act and are considering pulling the emergency brake’, there would have been something else. But it didn't say that. If the law was considered to be used at that time, why does the Council not disclose it? Is it simply because that assessment is something that they have afterwards dictated, or did not the Council of State respond in a complementary way?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e245	If that sentence has not followed the answer given to the representative Christensen, it is because I have not answered completely exactly in the written question – it is inaccurate. In reply to the other representatives, I record that I have stated that this is something we are working on. The reason for my answer is that the contract with Bergen Engines, as a subcontractor, was not sufficient for a decision to be made that Bergen Engines should be subject to the Safety Act. So in the case of the commitment they had to the Maritime Defense then, it wasn't enough for them to be subject to the Security Act and thus to that ownership control.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e250	There will be follow-up questions – first Jette F. Christensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e255	The Minister of Defence did not answer me the question at the beginning. Then I asked how it is possible that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in a Facebook thread can provide guarantees to the company that the sale will not be stopped, while the Security Act is under assessment, as the government says. What's happened there? Is that the coordination that is lacking? Is there a lack of security competence? Or is it simply not right that the Security Act was assessed at the time when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs gave a guarantee that the sale would not be stopped?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e262	In the case of staff in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Foreign Affairs is responsible. In fact, on the specific point of what has happened in the department, I propose that a written question should be addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. So it is the Export Control Department that has assessed these things. The Safety Act was to be assessed from the moment we received notice of this sale. It was assessed by the EOS services, and it was assessed when the Ministry of Defence started working on the matter. But with regard to the needs of the Marine Defense Agency, the Safety Act was not applied to Bergen Engines, because there was not enough ground for that. It was simply a maintenance requirement for a few ships. Then the Security Act applies as regards national security and transfer of technology and knowledge to a nation we do not have security cooperation with. That is the basis, and we have notified it both in the statement we have made, and in several written questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e269	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e274	This was pretty interesting. This says the Council of State is complicated, but it's pretty simple. According to the Security Act, as his department provided, foreign purchases may be subject to intervention if there is a threat to the security of the state. The Ministry of Defence did not do that when this company was put out for sale. They did not do it in December, when it became known that it was a Russian buyer. And to Rolls-Royce, an U.D. official on a message from the Department of Defence says that you don't want to intervene. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade said the same thing – that this is an agreement between two commercial actors. You don't want to intervene. So the message from the Ministry of Defence and the government has been unique all along – until the Stortinget asks for a hearing. Why is it that the Minister of Defence Bergen Engines is not informed that they consider stopping this sale?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e280	When employees of the Ministry of Defence by telephone with the U.D. have said that the Ministry of Defence does not consider it appropriate to stop the sale, it is made in an assessment against the needs of the Maritime Defence Agency, the vessel of the Maritime Defence Agency and the maintenance regime carried out by Bergen Engines as a subcontractor to another company. That is on the basis that the answer from the Ministry of Defence has been given. The reason we did not stop this sale early is that it was necessary to go into the matter more thoroughly in order to make a qualified decision. That work was done, and the government made a decision to stop the sale when we had all the knowledge we needed – a sufficient basis for making a qualified decision. I also believe that it is important to other Norwegian companies to come into such a situation – that we are sure that the matter is seen from all the necessary points of view, and that qualified assessments are made before action is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e285	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e290	That is why we have the Security Act – for this to be predictable. Then the company was to be listed, so they were told, and said, "We are assessing you under the Security Act." But no then, no such message is given. On the contrary, the company only gets the message: Tear and drive, it will not be interfered with. So why hasn't the Minister of Defense listed this company? It is not the responsibility of the civil service. It's his own responsibility. Now we get a demonstration in disclaimer. First of all, it's because it's U.D.'s employees. Now it's the Department of Defence staff. But this Security Act is, of course, the Minister of Defence who has proposed it. He has not put Bergen Engines on the list of companies to be assessed under the Security Act, and then my question is: What other companies is the Minister of Defence listed on this list, which is to be assessed against national interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e297	When I opened by saying that we should be careful in this room by pointing to the employees, I believe so. I explained which messages had come. It's the constitutional responsibility of the Councils. Let there be no doubt about it. The Security Act is quite new. We have started the job of'screening' in all sectors which companies can be covered by the Security Act. But with the commitment Bergen Engines had for the Marine Defense, with the service of a limited number of engines, that exposure was not large enough to be included in the maintenance contracts that were concluded, then a decision was made to include Bergen Engines under the Security Act. So there could be a lot of companies and a lot of customers that are eventually covered by the Security Act, for two reasons. One is that the safety situation has changed. The second is that technology also changes the safety situation, and then new assessments have to be made. That is the reason for the new Security Act, and that is the reason why we saw the need to promote a new Security Act, which became active from 1 January 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e306	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e311	There are 900 employees in Bergen Engines. They have no predictability. They did not know that they would be assessed under the Safety Act, and it is most unfortunate for the workplaces that it is intervened so late after it became known that they would be sold to a Russian owner. What will the Minister of Defence personally do to ensure these jobs and to prevent the damage that his department has exposed to these employees from affecting the future of this company?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e316	I disagree with the description that my department has exposed the employees to greater uncertainty. Bergen Engines is a company that has been in a difficult market for many years. That is also why Rolls-Royce has looked for other actors. The fact that we are now clear that the company has a technology and competence that makes it impossible to sell to a nation with which we do not have a safety cooperation, I believe that in fact is a good thing for the employees. Then we register that there are other possibilities to see if there are transfers within the framework we set for national security, and then we see what's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e321	Emilie Enger Mehl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e326	The Central Party asked the Minister for Defence a written question on 22 February, which said: ‘Has the sale of the Bergens Engines AS engine plant from Rolls Royce to TMH International has been assessed according to §10-1 cf. §1-3 or provisions of the Security Act [[...]] I think it is quite clear that I asked the Minister of Defense here whether they were either evaluating or having assessed the use of the Security Act. I can't quite see how I should have spoken more clearly. Nevertheless, the Minister of Defence replied on 1 March that Bergen Engines is not subject to the Security Act, and he pushed the responsibility forward by saying that the Defence Logistics Organisation and Defence Equipment were engaged in maintenance assessments and the nature of its impact on the Defence. If it is true that the Minister for Defence has assessed the Security Act all the way, why didn't he answer yes to the question on 1 March?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e338	I can read out the reply received by the representative: ‘The security policy situation requires that we pay extra attention to foreign investment in strategic sectors. We want an open economy that makes it attractive for foreign players to invest in Norway. At the same time, we are aware that foreign investment could be a threat to our national security interests. For establishments subject to the Security Act, the government has already introduced regulation to control ownership, so that it is possible to prevent undesirable foreign investment of importance to national security. Bergen Engines AS is not subject to the Safety Act under § 1-3 of the Act and thus Section 10-1 of the Act on ownership control does not apply in this case.» There were facts, and no decision was made to subject Bergen Engines to the Safety Act when they were subcontracted to VARD. So that's how the FLO and the FMA make those assessments along the way, but when I answered the representative in March, the decision was not made. It was not seen as necessary to make the decision with the involvement of Bergen Engines, and the decision to stop has not been made on that basis, but on the basis of the transfer of technology and knowledge to a foreign power.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e352	Emilie Enger Mehl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e358	When the Minister of Defence was confronted with the Bergen Engines case first, among others. on this issue, the Minister of Defence was just emphasising maintenance. He devalued the sale very much, especially because he thought this was standard technology. Among other things, in a debate on 23 February, he compared the transfer of this engine technology to Russia with the fact that the Home Guard is driving the Volkswagen pickup. It does not seem that the Minister of Defence at that time was at all aware of the security policy importance of allowing a Russian purchase of a power plant in Norway, which would contribute significantly to strengthening the Russian defence. I think it is a little strange that you were not aware of the safety risk at all if it was true that the safety assessments had already been carried out for more than two months. My question is, when did the Minister of Defence really realize that the transfer of technology, that is, giving Russia access to these engines, was relevant to national security?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e367	This is also a good case which shows that when there is knowledge on the matter, the debate develops further. Because it was not on that basis that the representative asked me questions. At that time, questions were asked about the maintenance of the Coast Guard and Naval Defense engines. On that basis, it was assessed that Bergen Engines did not necessarily have to comply with the Safety Act. Then the services, the offices, have easily and excavated the matter gradually, and there has been a different assessment due to other knowledge. But it's still such that just the maintenance of the marine defense vessel we're able to get other solutions, so that's the answer. We must then change the supplier of that maintenance. I believe this is an important debate also for Stortinget, and I look forward to the Committee working on this. But remember, the questions that came to me at the beginning were about the maintenance of the Coast Guard and Naval Defense vessel, and that need is not yet that it is subject to the Security Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e376	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e381	For the Storting, it does not matter whether the communication in this case has gone away from employees in the departments or from the Council of State, because the political responsibility is with the government in any case. But since the government itself has made a number of pointing to certain persons in the office in the matter, I believe the following questions are relevant: When did the Minister of Defence personally get this matter on his table for the first time? And was it before the message went to Messenger from the U.D. to Rolls-Royce on 29 January that the sale would not be stopped?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e386	I fully agree with the representative that it is a political responsibility, it is not a responsibility that goes down. But after we had made the statement, and when we realized this case after we had done it, we found it necessary to inform the Storting. I hope that the Storting appreciates that all the knowledge flows into them in this matter. I was informed about the matter in the middle of January, before the 29th, and we started the job with first clarifying what it had to say for the Maritime Defense, for the defence needs and for the defence values, and then we continued with the other. So how far we had come in the assessments just on January 29th, I don't know, but those who worked with the defence needs and securing the values of the defense were clear that the commitment Bergen Engines had was not subject to the Security Act. There was no decision to subdue Bergen Engines to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e391	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e396	My question goes to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs: Involvement in infectious diseases has required many businesses to shut down completely, and for some it is not the first time that they have to shut down during the period of March last year. The situation is now even more critical for many businesses and employees affected by the measures. Many are on leave, and many have high compensation of employees during the employer's period. It is estimated that the last cut affects 110 000 employees in 15 000 enterprises, with a total cost of 1.8 billion. kr for these activities during the period of compulsory pay. At the time of the introduction of equivalent invasive disease protection measures in March 2020, the Storting decided to reduce the pay obligation period by leave to two days. Then it was raised to ten days because the situation seemed to have improved and it was right to raise the threshold to permit. The optimism was very short-lived, and the measures were substantially tightened until after the year-end with new closures and leavencies as a consequence. However, the employer's period and the pay obligation did not change. The Progress Party has twice made proposals in the United Kingdom on the reduction of pay obligations without obtaining a majority, among others. because the parties to the government are opposed. The situation of many enterprises is still uncertain, and especially small enterprises in the food industry, which had to close down abruptly, are now warning that they do not necessarily dare to retrieve employees from leavencies when they can, because the economic risk of opening up too early is too high if they are at risk of a new closure. The question is, what is the Council of State’s assessment of the concerns that many businesses are now expressing, and the economic uncertainty that can help businesses not to dare to open up and take back employees in ordinary activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e407	There is no doubt that there are too many bone problems now – both for very many businesses and of course for very many who have either been outsourced or have lost their jobs. Before I go to the specific question, it's worth just remembering that the most important thing we can do to get people back to work is to get the infection numbers down. The faster we get control of the infection, the faster people get back to work. And even if we don't have the full phase yet, there's a lot of evidence that countries that have thought they'd be protecting the economy and the workers by having a milder measure have failed. They've got higher infection, and it's hit their economy harder. There are several reasons why the government and I do not think it is right now to reduce the number of days worked by employers, which means that employees also get less paid in the first few days. One is that for a period since last autumn we have had regional measures. That is, many of those who have been shut down, especially in this city and in the Central East, have been shut down for a long time. They have taken the heavy burden of having 10 days of employment. They also have those who have shut down in the Week – they have taken the heavy load. In other words, such a policy, because it is national, will not take many of those who have already taken this expense. That's the one. The second is what we saw in March/April. Then it was right to do that. It was a situation with many unknown factors, and it was also important to keep people at home and make the threshold low for using the permitting mechanism. But it also led to a very strong growth in the number of perimeters. Now I believe that the most important thing we can do is to ensure predictability in 10 days. It's lower than before. Now there's a pay support scheme to help make it easier to take people back. It is also worth remembering that in the legislation on leave today, a six-week period is also possible before a new employer period occurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e416	I agree with much of what the Council of State said in its reply. It is important to adapt the financial measures to the situation we are experiencing during the pandemic at all times, but the uncertainty is still very high. The most important thing is to bring down the infection rates, but if the situation suggests that it is possible to open up a little bit carefully during the spring and summer, it is a paradox that too many small businesses will be too risky to open up and take people back to work, precisely because they don't know when they can be shut down. This can happen quickly, and so they are responsible, the payroll, during the employer's period. Then it's natural to ask the Council of State if he doesn't want to take an initiative to lower the economic threshold to take people back to work in today's very uncertain situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e421	In part, the government has done this through the payroll subsidy scheme – which, moreover, has joined a broad majority of the UK population – to make it more profitable to take people back. However, I would like to elaborate a little bit on my point that in today's rules of leave you can take back an employee, and within six weeks – it is based on customary law, but also in the legislation on day-to-day pay – you can have a renewed leave without a new employer period. We are more than willing to discuss that longer period with the social partners. As the representative is probably aware, the permitting mechanism is partly owned by the state, but above all, the social partners have it, so it is absolutely essential that they are involved and agree on this. But there could have been a contribution to a slightly more flexible system and some risk relief, especially for the smaller businesses that have had the bone toughness and have the bone toughness now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e426	There will be follow-up questions – first Erlend Wiborg.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e432	Governments tend to listen to business, and business has been quite unambiguous about the importance of getting something done now with the employer period. Then it helps very little for the companies that are struggling today, that the Council of State shifts responsibility to the social partners, because the situation the companies are in is acute now. However, in one area, the Council of State chooses to prioritise and secure jobs. It applies to persons who are not Norwegian, i.e. EEA citizens residing in Poland, Romania, Latvia, Sweden, etc. There, the Council of State proposes to spend more than a quarter of a billion dollars each month on people who do not live in Norway. Why does the Council not prioritise safe jobs in Norway, but rather chooses to secure the income of residents in other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e437	There are two completely different questions, but to take the latter, the Progress Party agreed with the government when we tried to find other solutions for EEA workers. We tried to find solutions other than the payment scheme for EEA workers who have earned rights in Norway. These are people who are entitled to a daily allowance, if they had been on leave in Norway, they would receive a daily allowance in the usual way. It was not possible to find any other solution. Then it's as simple as for a Swedish like for example. works in the representative's home state in Eastfold, and as we say, we are not allowed to go to work because we have closed the borders, we can say that for a period of a few weeks it's okay – that's what it is, this is a consequence of infection protection, and we all have to sacrifice something under the corona. But we can't say over several months that we're taking away the possibility of income. This is the starting point for the government to provide that compensation scheme after looking for other solutions. Then that system cannot distinguish between our closest neighbours and other countries in Europe. This means that when a Swedish is to be given, and a Danish is to be given, a Polish and a Lithuanian will also have – as far as they have rights in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e442	Erlend Wiborg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e447	It could be interesting if the Council of State also responded to whether the countries that have citizens who benefit from it have similar arrangements for the Nordics who work in those countries. It could have been okay if the state council responded. We know the capacity in Nav is blown up. A lot of people now struggle with a long process time when they are going to have Nav benefits that they depend on to make everyday life go around. In the proposal for a compensation scheme for EEA citizens, the Council of State itself writes that this will entail 500 applications per day and that it will require large resources for manual processing. What will the Council of State say to all those who are now in line with Nav to get money to pay electricity bills, food, kindergarten, and who now have to wait even longer because the Council of State prioritises workers living in Poland, Latvia and Romania?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e454	So the first thing I want to say is that Nav has gotten almost 1 billion. extra kr to handle this. So Nav is far better rusted now than they were when Norway shut down last year. The second is that we have put in place an advance payment scheme, which I encourage as many people as possible to use, where you get the money quickly in your account. The third is that we do not give money to anyone in Europe. We have said that those who work in Norway and have earned rights in Norway would receive a daily allowance if they were nominated or lost their job in Norway, but we have now shut them out. When we don't find any other solution, we can't, I mean, don't make any arrangements for these. It is manageable for Nav, and it will not in itself lead to significantly greater waiting time for, for example. day-payment treatments. It is clear that all such decisions have a cost that Nav has to spend time on them, but this is then made in the simplest and least bureaucratic way possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e463	Erlend Wiborg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e468	I think it is relatively alarming that the Council of State believes that the situation and procedure time in Nav are now in the best order. It's not the feedback you get from most people who are in line waiting for answers to their applications, so that they can have a income to live on. The Council of State gives the impression that this applies to a few very few people, that is to say to all the parties on the Stortinget, because the government receives support from the Central Party and the Workers' Party and the other parties. There will be 80 000 EEA workers, and 63 pst. of which they live in Eastern Europe, which will benefit from this and come into line before many Norwegian workers. But what worries me is that the bill of over a quarter of a billion dollars a month adds the government that Norwegian companies that are already in a difficult situation are going to advance. How does the Council of State think it will affect the liquidity of hard-pressed companies that they now have to shoot over a quarter of a billion dollars?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e475	Let me first correct the representative: I have not said that the process time in Nav «is in the best order». There was a full crisis in Nav a year ago. At that time, the proceedings were completely unacceptable. They are now on their way down and have fallen to a great extent again, but there is still too long waiting, especially on complaint handling. So it is not right that this is a priority where we kind of say no to Norwegian daily allowance recipients and yes to others from EEA countries. There's a reason why we've put this up through the sickness benefit scheme, i.e. reducing the bureaucratic work of Nav and making it as simple and as bureaucratic as possible. Because, among other things, Listening to business, I note that some companies in important border regions and border counties, such as Østfold, have pointed out that it is important for them to be able to keep labour even from Sweden. They have been in a very desperate situation. The government has found no solution other than to introduce this system, and I think that is wise. Tax increases do not come from this Norwegian business administration – I think the representative Wiborg knows well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e484	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e489	Today, I want to address a sore issue – a matter that does not go after normal party-political divisions, but which is most of a social issue. At Easter there was a matter at Nok.no that certainly many people have read, and many of us are affected by it. It was about a man, the NRK chose to call him Michael because they had to have an anonymous representation of the person. He was a pensioner, he lived here in Oslo in a townyard, and the NRK described him as a little cautious man. In March 2020 he was found dead in his apartment, which the police had to get into because the janitor needed to do some maintenance. When the police were inside the apartment, they found the mail and a milk carton in the refrigerator that was dated to 2011. The police concluded that the man had been dead in the apartment for nine years. Nobody wants anything like that to happen, but when you read the case, it makes you think a little bit. For the case, it shows that the tax administration had noticed that they received a letter in return. No one picked up the mail, so they got a letter in return, and they registered him with an unknown address. The mail did not receive the mail, because it was a full mailbox, but they had a routine that if the mail was not picked up, a note was put in the mailbox saying that the mailbox was full, and they had followed that routine. Nav had also noticed that there was something wrong here, and they were not paid the pension to him. So the alarm bells could ring in many floors. If only the floors had spoken together, this could have been caught up. It is important to say that no one wants this to happen. But I have a call to the Council of State Torbjørn Røe Isaksen: Will he ask our state agencies to go through their routines and see what they can learn from this matter, so that as little as possible such matters happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e498	Yeah, I think we should do that. I think we should take a check, just to see if public agencies can also change their routines to discover such things. Then, the representative, Battle Violence Vedum, raises this in the right place: a question that not only – and perhaps not even first – is about how public agencies work, but it is about a bigger question that we as society have to ask ourselves. The story of Michael that NRK brought is not the first time we've heard stories about people who've been dead for a long time, people who've been lonely for a long time. Someone chooses it themselves, and there's nothing that society can do about. But then probably my first thought is that yes, we think it is wise that Nav, the tax rate and others can look at their routines, but also that this is not by its very nature a problem primarily for the public sector, although it is such that the public sector could and should have done more on such matters. But here's a question about what we are as a society. What is it that makes up community, what are we all doing in the neighborhoods and cities and the towns in which we live and live? Care, combating loneliness, caring, there's nothing we can solve through law paragraphs and appropriations alone; it's a civil liability, a social responsibility for each of us. Not thus said that the neighbours in this case – we know it only from the media – have not cared. In no way, this is no charge against them, but it's probably the first reflection I do, that when we see such things, it's also a question of whether we as society are missing something if we forget the responsibility that rests on each of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e506	I would like to thank you for the answer and also for the reflections. We fully agree, the Council of State and I, that this is not something that follows traditional party-political dividing lines. It's a social question. We are all citizens of society and have responsibility in our neighborhoods and for our fellow human beings. We all have to take that. Then, as politicians, we have a special responsibility for how the public sector works. What worries me is that the efficiency and digitisation of the public sector, which is right, also creates large systems that can make individuals small. It's hard for many to relate to digitisation. We have to make sure that we take human considerations, and we have to make procedures that make us capture those kinds of events. I really just want to give the council an opportunity to repeat what he said instead, that he is actively going to ask the councils for a review – not with a critical index finger from the Council of State, but as a positive call to their offices for a review, and that one, for example. reports back to Stortinget in connection with the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e515	I can repeat from the previous answer that I think it is a good idea to ask about it. What concerns us in the matter of Michael, as the NRK wrote about, is not whether Nav has a good enough routine to ensure that the money comes out in case something has happened, or the person in the worst case is dead. It's going to be kind of a picture, I think, of a concern that many of us might have that in a society that gets more efficient and more digital in a good and bad way, it's easier to get involved. For example, you go. no longer in the bank to deposit or withdraw money. There's a lot, a lot of good about it, but it might have a side that makes it easier for people to avoid or, in the worst case, to be avoided – that is, to be outcast, or not to find space or space in the community. That's something that worries me. I just want to say that the public objective must also be that digitisation allows people to be used for what only humans can do, that is to say, connect and follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e522	There will be follow-up questions – Jan Bøhler.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e527	The comments of the rapporteur and the Social Agency in Oslo have also been very much about the personal responsibility to care and to follow up on the neighbours, even though they may hold their own. I fully agree with that. Nevertheless, some people end up in a situation where they stay alone because they can have different kinds of problems that create isolation so that they are not seen. If we add up the figures that have emerged in the media this weekend, from 2013 to now, in Oslo first, but in the last few years also in Asker and Bærum, it is 199 that have been found after lying dead for a week or more – up to nine years. This is a problem, and I would like to ask the Council of State: Can he imagine taking the initiative that the government is trying to collect numbers from the rest of the country so that we can get an overview of the scale, the seriousness of this problem, and take it more inward? It's not just about etats, it's also about us as a society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e534	I have to be allowed to answer neither yes nor no, because I have to admit that I have not thought about whether this is a major problem that one should try to shed light on. But it may, I promise, I'll think about it. So I just want to say that I think the approach angle that the City Council in Oslo has had has something to do with it. One of the important discussions in the post-war Velferds-Norway was a discussion that I believe the representative of Bohemia is familiar with, namely the great debate of genius, with which Rune Gerhardsen, with good help from the then party traps, started in the early 1990s. It got very easily focused that there was too much credulity here. But there was another side to it, because it was about what is the personal responsibility for all of us alongside public responsibility. There is a problem that I, as a conservative, am concerned about, that I believe the representative of Bohemia is also concerned about, and that is not just about the public alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e541	Jan Bøhler – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e546	That was an interesting perspective. In Oslo, I've seen numbers up to 60 pst. lives like lonely. Then you could say that it is possible that the number mentioned, 199, is a pronounced Oslo problem. But I don't think so. I think we also have similar cases around the country. Therefore, I think it would be interesting if we got a better overview, got to see what other police districts or other Nav offices can tell, and took the problem more seriously over us and more seriously. What I think is that even though some people choose to live alone and feel good about it, there are some who are struggling, who are really lonely and have serious problems. I think that among those who are in such a situation, this story has created an insecurity for what will happen when they go away. What I wish, was that we could take it properly over us and start a work on it, and I would ask the Council of State: can he imagine starting a process to illuminate solitude in Norway in a way that we see more what these people are struggling with?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e555	Now we're outside my constitutional responsibility, but the Ministry of Health and the Council of State Bent Höie has promised solitude as a public health problem, simply. We humans get sicker by being lonely. It goes without saying that it's something else to choose to be alone, I think many of us often do, and feel that we need to. Loneliness is something else. As far as I know, the Ministry of Health has looked at figures and facts for what the situation is, and, together with voluntary Norway, tried to mobilise to combat loneliness as a public health challenge. It's a work that, of course, the whole government is behind. Once again, I'm going to think about whether it's necessary to start a bigger work on this, as I also said in my previous answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e562	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e567	I'm afraid I have to call the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs again. Hundreds of people were waiting last week in the Greenland camp in Oslo to get free food. The arrival at the Fattighuset has increased through the pandemic. The Salvation Army in Drammen had to send several people home without food because it was not enough for everyone. One of those who stood in line in the mountains was Ørjan André Ottesen, who wrote about it in the newspaper after. He wrote: «We are desperate and tired of feeling outside. We're doing everything we can to make our children feel the same way. Finally, you will be revealed when you cannot keep your head above the water, and the interest after the holiday, the park dress or the washing machine will be paid." Ørjan André Ottesen is one of many examples showing how people become dependent on private charity when the crisis strikes, and what kind of stress and shame many know. The pandemic has become a disparate crisis and has put our safety nets to the test, and it turns out that too many people are not good enough. Does the Minister of Labour think that it is worthy of our welfare state that people become dependent on private charities to get food on the table? And what will the Minister of Labour do to ensure that these food queues do not repeat themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e579	In Norway, you should not rely on private charities to get food on the table. Nevertheless, it is important to say that the Poor House and other institutions do a formidable and very important job. Also volunteers do it as a supplement to the public. But we've seen these queues before. We saw them, among others. in the context of the financial crisis, as unemployment also increased. Now we have more people who are totally or partially unemployed than in the financial crisis. We have more people who are totally or partially available than under the Dot com bubble, the oil price drop etc. It hits a lot of tough guys. Then I think it's an important message from our whole system that we've made it this way in Norway that you're contributing when you can, in order for you to get help when you need it. So it's not like it's fluent or shameful, or it should be, asking Nav, which is the base wall of our support system, for help if you need it, for example. to get food on the table, to use the most dramatic example and the picture. We have now, under the corona pandemic, in practice lowered the demands for social assistance, precisely because we want the threshold to be lower for those who need it. When we saw in 2020, last year, that there were actually fewer people asking for social assistance, it could be partly a consequence that some of our benefits are better than before the Korona. It was no easier being unemployed as such for the family economy before the Korona. Nevertheless, the benefits of daily allowances are now enhanced. But maybe for some threshold is a little too high to ask for help, and it shouldn't be. It's great that we in Norway want to be self-held and self-responsive, but we've created a community system where you're going to contribute when you can, and then you're going to get help when you need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e589	The food queue is not a picture I'm using. It is a picture that has been printed in most major media in Norway because it was spectacularly long. I fully agree that the Poor House deserves fame for the job they do, but I'm also quite sure that if you ask the Poor House, they would wish they didn't need it. It's not going to pass that these problems are also related to the fact that the minimum benefits of different social arrangements are so low that many people are struggling to get their ends to meet. This also applies to many of those who have been permised or unemployed in the differential pandemic. So it's over 20,000 who's been outlawed ever since the beginning of the crisis. There are people from professional groups who don't have a buffer account to take off, and how many people are now really struggling to pay the bills. Will the Minister of Labour now make a new assessment of increasing the daily allowance, so they get a little more living off?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e594	There is no doubt that the transition from having a full job to being unemployed is a boneless one, of course, because it means that you are going to have a completely different family economy – 20 days last year, but nevertheless –. That's tough for many, because it's not like most people have a lot of room for customs and fun in their monthly budgets. You have interest to pay, you have kindergarten, you have expenses, and the children wear clothes, etc. But that's also how we have increased these benefits just because of the coronary situation. Because the Korona came in a hurry, a total mass, including the government parties, was involved in raising the daily allowance to 80 pst. up to 3G, and that also means it's higher for everyone after that. In practice, we have also lowered the threshold for social assistance. We have introduced new schemes for self-employed workers and apprentices, to mention something, which I believe has worked well in the period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e599	There will be follow-up questions – first the Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e604	There may be grounds for recalling that the opposition has been pressing for a variety of benefits, while the government has been constantly slow and slow in its response to the social crisis. In the middle of what fortunately for many in this country was still a Easter celebration with Kvikk Lunsj and perhaps tours and at least for some huttyll, the figures from the Statistical Central Bureau on poverty, which shows a quite different reality for too many of us. Child poverty continues to increase. 115 500 children lived in low-income families in 2019, and both the Church’s City Mission and Redd Barna have now come with clear expectations for the government to take measures to reverse the trend of poverty. However, there are so far no new measures from the government to look at the new figures. Is the Minister of Labour satisfied with the work done by the government to prevent increasing inequality and more poor families with children?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e609	If the government had been satisfied, we would have laid down and left off to make choices. We're not satisfied, and it's still, as the representative Lightbaking points out, a lot to do, but that doesn't mean that work starts a week after new numbers have arrived. We've started with this and we've been working on it for a long time. I just want to mention some examples. The fact that, for example, Child welfare is increasing, is a direct contribution into the family fund, just to the families that need it the most, and that's where it matters the most. In addition, it can be mentioned in brackets that removing the cash support would be a direct contribution to increasing child poverty in Norway overnight. Having free core time in kindergarten, having a good school that makes the children actually learn what they need, regardless of their home background, is absolutely crucial. It must also be that we all see the elephant in space, and that is that almost the whole increase in child poverty comes from the minority population, i.e. people with immigrant backgrounds. It is a cross of thought if you want a very rough immigration policy, because it cannot be combined with a good enough integration policy and with combating social inequalities in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e614	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e619	I am very pleased that the Right lost the question of child welfare. We were in many debates with the Right in the previous election campaign where they said it was a bad idea. Now the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs defends it. That's good. I believe many people are responding to the fact that representatives of a government that, through this crisis, has so consistently left them on top, for example. whether zero notices or zero dividends are very concerned about what a calling claim to those who have the least. Then it's fast class instinct and not knowledge that can decide. I think that's gross. But I have a specific question in the end about redundancy payments. Many people feel that Nav does not have the opportunity to follow up the respondent as usual in the current crisis, so SV has repeatedly raised the question of an additional extension of the benefit for people on redundancy payments. The government has told them to evaluate it. There won't be any money of appreciation. Has the Minister of Labour completed the assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e626	We have extended it for jobseekers, because it was reasonable. This is still the case, and especially now that infectious diseases are also increasingly affecting policy-makers, it is an assessment that is becoming all the more precarious. But it's not like we've just evaluated. We've seen whether the situation has changed, whether it warrants change of policy, and that's still the answer to this. I have to notice or just point out two other things, and that's that the main driver of increased inequality is high unemployment. The crisis is now in the private sector. Nine out of ten people who have lost their jobs or are on leave are in the private sector. If private business does not go well, inequalities will grow because more people stay out of work. I also have to say, since SV has on several occasions taken up this class perspective, that it is at least worth noting the interesting thing by a member of the educational media class teaching another member of the educational media class about the class perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e633	Lise Christoffersen – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e638	The pandemic raises many questions about injustice, including among those who get sick at work. The Korona study at Oslo University Hospital already shows serious long-term effects for many who have been infected. The whole 42 pst. report health worse than before, 14 pst. in the case of dyspnoea, 31 pst. reports fatigue. The government has then added covid-19 to the list of occupational diseases, but only healthcare professionals are specifically mentioned in the occupational injury code. It is perceived as very, very unfair by employees in other socially critical first line professions, for example: trade in goods, airfields, weights, cleaners, teachers, nursery workers, in the transport sector, to name a few. Experience of justice is important in order to ensure that necessary action is taken. What is the justification of such unfair discrimination by the Council of State against many of those who take the greatest risk of keeping society under the pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e643	As the representative of Christoffersen points out, we have now added covid-19 to the occupational injury list. So it's right that the rules include primary health care workers, and I think most people agree with that. This is a group that comes in close and direct contact with coronary infection to an extraordinary extent, because the job is among other things. handling people with coronary infection. At the same time, it has been suggested that the change in the rules also applies to other occupations where the job is done in environments with a particular disease or infection risk, for example: in work areas where employees can easily come into contact with persons infected. In principle, all workers may be authorised covid-19 with serious complications such as occupational injury. But here it's important to make it clear to people that the compensation for occupational injury has never been posted like that, and it's not automatically for covid-19, that just because one gets infected by covid-19 at work, it's automatically a professional injury. The system is a little bit more complicated than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e649	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e654	When the crisis struck, the government was badly prepared. The government’s response to the crisis was short-term and insufficient. The government proposed crisis packages that would shift the costs of leavers from employers to employees. If the Storting had agreed to the government's proposal, hundreds of thousands of Norwegians who have been without work for an entire year had much less to live on, and the queues at the Fattighuset had probably been even longer. Today, I heard the Council of State in Political Quarter explain why it was important for those who are going to social assistance. Then there is a question to ask: when we have had so many people who have been outside the labour market, why has the government not made greater efforts to ensure that those who are outside the labour market, who are unemployed and on leave, are filled with the necessary skills? And why are there so few on the ordinary measures of Nav? If you think that activities are good, it will also be good for those who are either on leave or jobseekers now, to get involved, and that even more people will be able to fill their skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e663	I fully agree with all the representative Aasrud said, except for the problem description, because this is one of the areas where the government has really put in place powerful measures. One thing is over 1 billion. This is precisely because the activity is good, and because there are measures to be taken when the unemployment rate rises. However, it is also necessary to tear the wall between the day-to-day pay system and the education system, so that it is easier for more people to take part in continuing training. We haven't been content just to do something about the demand side, to say it that way, we've also massively stimulated the supply side through things like corporate training funds that primarily go to those who are at work, but also support for the regions in order to set up professional letter programmes adapted to those that are now, for example. have lost the job or have been transferred, and have never completed the letter. Nav has estimated that there are about 30,000 out of those who are unemployed who have not completed high school. We simply have to create a system – and we have started it now – which means that when you are out of work, you spend that time getting higher skills, not only through our classic measures, but also through, for example, our own. to complete the letter of formal notice. For some, it will also be relevant to take part of primary education, for example, or even higher education. So here I believe that the government has put in powerful measures, both in the ordinary budget for 2021 and also in the supplementary proposition that came at the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e672	It is clear that the Council of State and we have a slightly different view of what is the result of what the Council of State says he agrees with me in, because in 2017 there were 19 400 on actions through Nav, and in 2020 there were 12,900. So there's a decrease of almost 5,000 from 2017. And when you look at those who have taken education on their own initiative, who go on the day-to-day pay and are on the perm, there are 2,900 more in February 2021 than in March 2020. And in the case of those who have been trained as measures through Nav, the increase has been 975. When we have had almost a double in unemployment, I think it is strange to call this «powerful action». Is this what we can expect the government to contribute when talking about powerful measures in the future? That's a pretty puzzled increase, I have to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e679	In the ordinary budget for 2021, it contained 850 million. kr to several action sites. Now we know that billions are flying during the coronary crisis, and it's also true that they are, but that's after all an amount to talk about. What does that mean? This means 7,000 more sites for action — to mention one example. In the additionalproposition, there were several areas of action at the top of it. In addition, we have allocated extra money both in the budget and in the supplementary proposal for closer follow-up of youth, to ensure that those who are young and come to Nav are followed up quickly, so that they do not become passive and can quickly get back to work or into training. We have allocated money to a new summer work programme where Nav will contribute to the creation of summer jobs, and the goal is 2000 summer jobs – also as part of this. In addition, it is important that you no longer have to go to education as a means of taking training while you go on a day-to-day basis. That wall is now torn. This can all be done while they retain the daily allowance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e684	There will be follow-up questions – first Rigmor Aasrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e689	It's a good thing that wall is torn. As early as 2017, the Stortinget asked that provision should be made for greater opportunities to take education, including education that gives credit for study while receiving a daily allowance. So if the government had been prepared that we could get into such a crisis situation, I think it would have been possible to make more provision for even more education, because Norway needs it. An increase in the state budget for 2021 is good. We welcome 7 000 new action sites. But it's not a matter of being very happy that someone couldn't get started with it before, because there's been a crisis that's been going on since March last year, and it's been a lot of months that's lost when you haven't been able to get started before. I understand that the government is satisfied with what you've done, but what's the most important step now to get more into education, so that we can meet the situation that we've been in, in an even more active way?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e696	I have a political principle, and that's that I'm never satisfied. I believe that we have done a lot that is good and much that is right, but as I said, I am not satisfied. The most important thing now to get more involved in education is really two things: one is that we have now set up a temporary scheme under the corona to combine different types of education/relevance and daily allowance. Some people want to make a permanent system. This should not only be a corona solution, it should be a permanent solution, and it is clear that then we also have to think through some issues, such as: how to combine Loan Fund training and day-to-day pay. Is there going to be the same opportunities for someone who wants to take another university degree as someone who wants to take a college letter? There are important issues that Stortinget should also address. The second point is that we have to make sure that the vacancy doesn't snap. That means that what the situation will look like, and what's the need in 2022, it's actually a little too early to say something about, but that we'll need powerful measures to get more people into work, I'm pretty sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e705	Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e710	I record that in several of the answers to the previous speeches, the Council of State says that it is granted one billion through an additional proposition. That's true, but what the council forgets to say is that this was on order from the Stortinget, and that this was a decision the government parties voted against. So this billion is strictly not something the Council of State has invented itself. Among those who are most financially affected in the pandemic are those who are out of work. In several cross-sections, the working party has proposed to extend the maximum time period for receipt of daily allowances. The Government amended the rules on 31 October. This meant that you did not get an extension for those who had gone out. Now the government has turned around, which means that those who went out then, can now again apply for a withdrawal of the allowance. But between them, there have been many months without income. Does the Council of State continue to consider that it was right to remove the provisional rules last autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e717	I think it was properly based on the situation that was then. I also think it was right when the infection situation continued and became as it turned out, that we gave the opportunity to apply again. The disagreement between the government parties and the opposition has been very much concerned with the decisions to be taken when. The opposition has been very concerned about extending the measures far ahead of time, while we have been concerned that, if the infection situation improves, we should quickly return to normal. I also have to say that this is a little bit about the storywriting. It is quite right – and it was important – that there was a good cooperation with the Stortinget in March/April last year. But it is not that just because the government in its first proposition did not provide measures in absolutely all areas, but got request decisions in the Stortingen afterwards, the government would have no intention of doing more or working with more. It is also the case with many of the cases that came into the supplementary proposal. When the Storting decided something on its own, it is not automatically that there are measures the government has been against or has not worked with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e727	Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e732	What we're talking about now is strictly that people stayed without income for several months because the government changed the rules in the middle of a pandemic – despite the fact that it was constantly announced that there could be more waves of infection. After a year of pandemic, we still have a brutal labour market. The majority of the Grand Duchy has decided that long-term unemployed persons who were granted daily allowances before 20 March 2020 will receive an increase in daily allowances, equal to the provisional daily allowance rate. The government wanted to maintain the ordinary rate of day-to-day pay for the long-term unemployed and the government parties voted against the introduction of an increased daily allowance for the long-term unemployed group. Then I want an answer to: Why does the government think it is fair that the long-term unemployed should have paid less in cash than the other unemployed?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e741	The government's justification is the same as last year's reasons for the Workers' Party. That's a reason why we've usually had a daily allowance of just over 62 pst. As far as I have registered, there has been no government that has worked to lift it – nor the red-green government. It's a low rate compared to many of our other benefits, but we've said that it's the daily rate. So the reason for doing the higher one under the corona was that there was an extraordinary situation that quickly came to mind, how many in a very short time lost their job or were permitted. It was then reasonable to have an increased rate, especially for those with the lowest income. It meant – and it was the Stortinget, who unanimously decided – that two different rates were given. But the reason was just linked to the coronary situation, as it is in many of our other benefits that are extraordinary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e748	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e753	My question goes to the state councillor Sveinung Rotevatn. In the climate plan, the government has proposed more than a triple of the CO 2 tax in Norwegian workplaces, to NOK 2 000 per tonne by 2030. This is a sky-high level of charges, which will go straight into the bottom line of Norwegian companies and our industry. For the Progress Party, it has been completely inappropriate to support such a kind of strange tax increase, simply because we believe that the consequences are a weakening of the competitiveness of our business and can mean the closure of Norwegian jobs or the flagging out of companies. In the consultation round on the climate plan, it became clear that the Progress Party is not alone in believing this. Several companies and organisations expressed fears about the impact this level of charges will have on both jobs and future value creation. Norway's Fiskerlag meant, inter alia: that the Norwegian fishing fleet, consisting of around 6000 small and large vessels, does not have a realistic opportunity to exchange energy carriers in the near future and that a tripling of the CO 2 charge for them will only serve as an additional fiscal charge to the State, which reduces profitability and threatens jobs. NHO Aviation says that the proposed increase in the CO 2 tax will provide an air route offer that will be worse and much more expensive in the coming years, and mentions the government's increase in fees as a purely symbolic policy. With this legitimate fear of many Norwegian companies as a backstop, I believe that both Norwegian workers and Norwegian companies, those who keep the wheels running and finance our welfare society, are entitled to some answers. What financial assessments and impact assessments has the government taken into account for the proposed and drastic increase in the CO 2 tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e780	Let me start by saying that I am happy that over the last few years, in close cooperation with the Advance Party in the budget, we have increased the CO 2 charge. We have also close holes in parts of the tax regime, so that those who have not had a fee have now received it. It has been an important part of the government's climate policy, and as a result it is now going down and at its lowest level of 27 years. In the climate plan that Stortinget gets excited to discuss and deal with tomorrow, and that we will probably come back to many details in then, increasing CO 2 tax by 2030 is an important part. It is not the only tool. The plan foresees emissions reductions of 20 million tonnes in the non-quota sector and increases in CO 2 tax account for 7.5 of them. So it's a significant and important tool, but it's not the only one. However, it is important precisely for business to be taken into account. Because the main thing that business tells us is that they want climate policy is that it is far-reaching. They want to know what the cost of releasing CO 2 will be in the future, so that year after year they can invest in greener solutions – in hydrogen, in biogas, in battery packs, in electrification. It's true that where we have come very far in some areas, such as in the case of a passenger car, where the salsals pass through the roof of battery electric vehicles, there are some industries where it takes time to phase in zero emission solutions and the fishing industry is one of them. Having said that, I note that Enova has just changed her support programme to battery for vessels and fishing vessels, because it is now so much in progress from the fishing industry to install batteries, to get hybrid technology to go up, so that they can cut their expenses, among other things. to the CO 2 tax, and to make more money. We want business to make such investments. Therefore, I am pleased that it seems that the Storting is some of the things that it is right to cancel the CO 2 tax in the future. I know it's an exception, but most of the people I talk to in business say to me that it's wise and the most effective climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e811	Thanks for the answer. I'm a little bit uncertain about what to use it for. We have a lot of industrial companies, and it can't be that the Council of State only talks to those I don't talk to. Because we have smaller industrial companies that are not part of the quota sector and are therefore affected by paying a CO 2 tax. The opinion of the time this was done was that the smaller companies should be protected from the large international groups. If I am allowed to use Figjo as an example, which is one of the smaller industrial companies affected by the CO 2 tax today, and which are hit in such a way that they pay twice as high a charge as the large international groups in the quota sector: what should my answer be to them about the future? Should I say we're going to triple the fee, which is already twice as high? What can I say to that company? Are they going to produce the porcelain on Figjo in the years that are coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e826	Yes, I absolutely hope that one will. So it's not that the reason some companies are inside the quota system and others are outside is that one wants to protect some companies from other companies, or from competition. It simply has to do with the fact that when you're going to set up such a huge quota system across Europe, you're going to have to set some practical limits on how many people can participate in that quota trade. But enough about it. It is in any case that non-quota industries should also have a cost of releasing greenhouse gases. If one is to start giving more and more exceptions to it, the system will not be fairer. More and more injustices will be experienced in granting exemptions. The big advantage for enterprises outside the quota system is that, among other things: Enova provides large funds in support of green technology. For example, for enterprises such as the Halleland representative, which is today based on natural gas, this would be the case. biogas could be an alternative. Now I can't promise anyone who gets support, and not, but I know that the government has allowed significant funds to Enova, and they're supporting that kind of investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e837	There will be follow-up questions – Gisle Meininger Saudland.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e842	A paradox in Norwegian climate policy is that emissions are shifted out of Norway so that it comes to another country’s climate accounts. This means that there is a reduction in nutrition in Norway. It is not good for business, nor does it lead to a global decline in emissions. One of the industries that is hardest hit by an increased CO 2 tax, which we discussed now, is the fishing industry. To avoid bankruptcy, the fishing industry in Sørland, where I come from, is forced to travel to Denmark to fill diesel, because there they do not have this fee. The logic is that it is better to force fishermen to drive shuttle traffic across Skagerrak to fill diesel in Denmark, and that emissions are recorded there instead of in Norway, so that Norway is well placed in the climate accounts, even if it is not. Does the Council of State see that this is a paradox, and why in the world is it something he wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e854	I don't want carbon leakage in any sectors, but it's worth taking into account, when it comes to this issue, that it's not going to cost $0 in greenhouse gas taxes to fill fossil fuels in other European countries in the future. The EU has significantly increased its climate target. They are now discussing shipping into the quota system. So here it's going to happen a development, and that development also has to happen in Norway. At the same time, the government has said that when we are going to increase greenhouse gas taxes in the future, it is not to fill up the treasury. We are not to increase the overall level of taxation. On the contrary, we're going to pay back through lighters in other taxes, towards different industries, towards businesses, and provide targeted support for climate technologies. We now see an unlikely positive development in the fishing industry that is not only about being very profitable for the time being, but also about investing in new, green technology, in hydrogen, in battery. It's a development I'm afraid will stop if you don't have any climate ambitions on behalf of that industry, or on behalf of other industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e864	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e878	Thank you for the opportunity to explain to the Stortinget about the plan for how to open up society again and take back the day-to-day. The purpose of a reopening plan is to create predictability. At the same time, there's a lot we don't know. How much does the virus spread over the spring and summer? How soon are the vaccines coming? How well do the vaccines against the spread of infection work, and do we get more new mutations? Unfortunately, there is still a lot of uncertainty. It cannot be removed with a plan. So we can't say for sure when different parts of society can open up. We have to rely on the observed development of infection, hospitalisation, health care capacity and vaccination. The speed of the reopening of Norway must be based on data, not on dates. The plan presented by the government today is based on professional advice from health authorities. We don't come with concrete dates, but we're saying what prerequisites must be present for us to open up, and in what order we're going to open up the different parts of society. It gives some kind of predictability, and the government will follow up with loop messages along the way to say how we're doing. The plan will therefore become more and more concrete as we approach the different steps of reopening. The government last year created a strategy for managing the pandemic. The overall objective and priorities are set and will also apply to reopening. Our goal is still to control the spread of infection. This is how we need to take care of health, reduce disruptions in society and protect the economy. Even when we're going to re-open society, we're going to give children and young people priority first. Then there is consideration for jobs and business. We're going to do this step-by-step and controlled. When we open one step, as a general rule, we'll wait three weeks before moving on to the next step. When we see that it's safe, that the infection doesn't increase again, we'll move on to the next step in the plan. The government’s reopening plan consists of four steps and provides an overview of the measures that could be facilitated in each step. The first preparatory step is to return to the national level of intervention we had before 25 March, when we introduced new national measures to tackle the rising infection in the weeks before Easter. These measures may appear to have an effect. The number of newly registered cases fell through the Passover. At the same time, the number of hospital admissions is still at a level we haven't seen since April last year. Many have been traveling in Easter, and fewer have tested themselves, as we have also seen in other holidays and festivals. Therefore, there is a need for more working days to learn more about the infective situation now after Easter. The government will assess next week whether all or part of the national measures that came on 25 March can be reversed. I'll now say a little bit more about how we'll evaluate when we can go from one step in the reopening plan to the next. In order to have control, there is a need to see the results of each step before we go to the next one. In order to ensure sufficient data, it is necessary to take about three weeks between steps. We have to be prepared for the possibility that if the infection rises again, it may have to be reversed. The situation will be assessed on the basis of three verification points: the situation of infection and the burden of disease; the capacity of healthcare, both municipal and specialist health services; vaccination These three points need to be assessed together and must always be assessed against the consequences of the measures, both for people and for the economy. The first thing we need to assess is the situation of infection and the burden of disease. The risk of the spread of infection coming out of control is still present. As we have seen in the last few weeks, the infection situation can change rapidly as long as a larger part of the population is not vaccinated. We assume that the spread of infection will be subdued during the summer season, this year as last year. But the extent is uncertain, especially with the new and more contagious virus variants. Before we open up, we must have seen low and stable infection rates, and it is important that the number of hospitalisations comes down from today's level. There are now several pilots carrying out mass testing in Oslo, Bergen, Askøy and Molde. The pilot at Blinder is finished and showed that about 50 pst. by the students tested themselves. Of the approximately 2,700 tests, 7 were positive. Our goal is to start systematic and regular testing in schools now after Easter. It will be the highest-infection municipalities in the school age that will be given priority. Rapid tests and self-testing are best suited for mass testing because it does not exceed the laboratory's capacity, and because we have good access to such tests. Mass testing can contribute to more physical education and to speedily move to new steps in the reopening plan if the infection is limited. The second check point in the evaluation of what we can open is the capacity of healthcare. This applies to both the capacity of municipalities to test and trace infection and the capacity of hospitals. We have to make sure that both covid-19-sick people and others who need treatment get the best offer we can give them. Experience has shown that the capacity to detect infection is being pressured before hospital capacity, especially in the event of local outbreaks. The third thing we have to assess is vaccination. On average, as new parts of the population are being vaccinated, the number of people infected is getting younger and younger. Among the young are fewer who get seriously ill and die. That means we can handle a slightly higher level of infection. To date, 1 million vaccine doses have been set in Norway. 725000 received the first dose and 290,000 received the second dose. The very oldest have now received both doses of the vaccine, and many municipalities are in the process of vaccinating people under 75 years of age. Our best estimate, if we get the deliveries that we're promised, is that everyone over the age of 18 has been offered the first dose in July, but this is uncertain. Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna will deliver ever more doses towards summer. We expect deliveries of the Janssen vaccine from April and beyond, but the large volumes from there do not come until June. The status of the AstraZeneca vaccine remains undetermined. In order to prove that we have been vaccinated, that we have taken a corona test, or that we have natural immunity after being subjected to covid-19, we are now working on creating a corona certificate. Norway is also participating in the European work on corona certificates, and the Norwegian solution will be in line with the EU digital green certificate. It is a clear ambition of the European Commission and the World Health Organisation to look at the European solution in the context of and adapt to an international solution. The government is investigating whether a simplified version of a corona certificate can also be used nationally to open up more and faster, through digital documentation of test and vaccine status. The government will also consider new advice for those who have been vaccinated. In addition to the protection against disease, vaccinations are now being intensively researched to protect against re-infection, and new studies indicate that this is the case. As a result, the risk of the spread of infection by vaccinated persons without being sick itself is reduced. This is very good news. The Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate are in the process of assessing the basis of knowledge and will update their advice as soon as it is sound. This could be done, for example, by: be relevant to the opening of exemptions from home offices and that one household may be visited by more than one. We also need to look at the rules for the infectious quarantines, the entry quarantines and the waiting quarantines for those who have been vaccinated. So we're going to get back to this. In addition to a few exceptions, the borders of Norway are virtually closed to non-residents or Norwegians. Derogations are subject to a strict entry regime. The number of persons crossing the border is therefore at a low level. In Easter there was a reduction in the number of foreign passengers at Norwegian airports of 96 p.m. compared to 2019. Norway has always had among Europe’s most stringent restrictions on immigration. We're still going to have to have that. At the same time, we must take care of the need for safe and predictable transport of medicines, goods and operationally critical personnel that cannot be found in Norway. If not, Norway will stop. Also at the border, reopening will be gradual and controlled. In assessing how quickly the limit can be opened up to new groups, we will, in addition to looking at the three checkpoints, also look at the infection situation in other countries and at the experience we are doing on a continuous basis with the entry system we now have. So how much we're going to open up at the limits of the different steps, is still a little bit uncertain. The Government has established an application-based admission scheme for work travellers. On 20 February, this scheme opened up the possibility of entry for non-residents with technical competence who make work strictly necessary to maintain their activity in Norwegian establishments. The scheme has subsequently been extended to include specialised labour necessary for the construction, operation or maintenance of infrastructure. We are considering further extending the plan next week. The overall objective in the first instance is to give priority to non-resident workers who can contribute to minimising the loss of value creation and jobs, within the framework of infectious diseases. Let me now say more about the national measures in each of the four steps of the reopening plan. However, I would first like to stress that the population still needs to be prepared for more stringent local or regional measures for shorter or longer periods. The risk of local outbreaks will persist as long as children and young people are not vaccinated. Major regional outbreaks may also make it necessary to await the national reopening. As mentioned next week, the government will assess whether the whole or part of the national contraction that occurred before Easter can be reversed. This is step 1 of the reopening and can be viewed as a preparatory phase. In step 1, we want, for example: consider opening to: up to five guests in private homes donation up to 1 p.m. 22, with food-serving requirements events bringing together only persons from one municipality may be organised: the distance recommendation is returned to 1 metre; up to 100 persons at indoor events, such as cultural and sporting events, conferences and religious services, all of which are in permanent locations up to 200 people at outdoor events, but 200 people times 3 cohorts whose audience sits in permanent designated places – most often a football stadium As the Minister of Culture announced before Easter, next week the government will also assess whether to open up training matches outdoors in series where a majority of the practitioners have the sport as a profession, in football for the top two levels. The first week in May, the government aims to open up series games in the same series. Once again, the infective situation allows for this, and that there is good compliance with infectious disease protocols in sport. At all stages of the plan, it is foreseen that schools and kindergartens follow the traffic light model. It will therefore be the individual municipality that assesses the need for an increased level after a local assessment of the situation. In step 2, we will prioritise relief for children and young people and students, while there will be other reliefs that will mean a lot to all of us. In general, we will continue to recommend that events and activities be conducted outdoors whenever possible. As it now appears, with the current development of the epidemic and the rate of vaccination, it will be possible to start at the second stage of the reopening plan in the last half of May. Step 2: Increased physical education will be opened up at universities, colleges and colleges. For visits to private homes, we carefully open from five to ten guests, because we know that much of the spread of infection has just occurred in such contexts. For private events in rented premises, up to 20 people will be opened. Donation time is extended until 9.00 p.m. 24, and the requirement to serve food is removed. Events may be conducted by up to 200 persons indoors, all of whom are in permanent designated locations. Children and young people will be able to participate in events and organised training within the municipality. Indoors there will be a number limit of 100. For adults in the latitude, organised training is gradually opened up both outdoors and indoors, in groups of up to 20 people. By mid-April, the health authorities will propose a model for the reopening of the parallel sport. Domestic travel is possible. The Council to avoid travel abroad will be maintained unless the journey is strictly necessary. There will still be strict quarantine and testing requirements for those entering the country. Family visits from abroad will be facilitated, both from the EEA territory and from third countries. We would like, among other things: consider the opening of entry for girls and grandparents. Priority groups with travellers from abroad will be facilitated. The framework that will apply to 17 May is too early to decide now. The government will come back in the last half of April with detailed information on advice and recommendations for the celebration of the national day. As regards the framework for festivals, concerts and other events during the summer, the government will return to this in early May. Step 3 will open up opportunities for both private and public spaces, including: by allowing more than one assembly. It opens up so you can have 20 guests at home. 50 people can meet at private events in rented premises. For public events, self-assessments linked to the possible use of rapid tests and corona certificates will be carried out. It's going to be normal time of discovery, but there'll still be a requirement for registration and a good distance between the guests. We will still want to have the most jobs in the home office. A gradual opening to serial games and other competitions will be considered in the adult wide range. Children and young people will be able to participate in events and organised training across municipal borders. Top-notch sportsmen may now engage in an almost normal sport activity. We will also open up more foreign travel, but with continued quarantine and testing requirements. However, these requirements may be amended from today onwards. Also for travel abroad, we will consider how the corona certificates can be used. It will also open up more normal labour immigration. In step 4, there may be a lot of approximation as usual, but there will still be requirements for infection prevention, distance, being at home when you are ill or in quarantine, and there may still be a need for some use of home offices. There will still be restrictions on the number of large public events, sport and leisure activities, but the rules for this will have to be kept under constant review. There may still be restrictions on entry, in particular for travellers from third countries. One must also assume that quarantine and testing may be required for travellers from certain areas. The rules applicable to entry must also be kept under constant review. The contents of the steps could be changed, for example: based on new knowledge of how and where infection occurs and the experience gained through reopening. And it might also be necessary to go more step-by-step. The plan will become more and more concrete the closer we get to the reopening. I understand that many could wish for a plan where we have more specific dates. A fixed reopening plan could create increased predictability if we could confidently estimate how the pandemic will develop further. We can't. The uncertainty is too great. There may be new mutations that change the rules of the game again. There is uncertainty as to how quickly the vaccines come and how well they work against the spread of infection. It is therefore my opinion that it is not appropriate to specify the different steps of the plan more precisely, but instead let them be subject to ongoing assessments based on clear checkpoints. Even those countries in Europe which have made their plans easier to date have clear reservations that the development of infection is the driving force. The United Kingdom's motto is data ahead of dates. The reopening in Germany is planned by determining both progress and reversal in the plan. Although much is uncertain, the government estimates that we have probably gone the first three steps of the plan by the end of June if we do not experience any major setbacks. The Public Health Institute has carried out various model simulations to show how the infection could develop in the future in different scenarios. These simulations show that we have to prepare for the infection to increase slightly again beyond the harvest. How much it increases will depend on how many people are able to vaccine and how well the vaccine works. The conclusion of the vaccine programme and the preliminary results on the efficacy of the vaccines give rise to optimism. However, particularly among children, young people and those who for various reasons have declined to the vaccine, new infections may occur. If new measures become relevant, we believe that they will be far less invasive than those we now have. For each step, everyday life becomes a little bit more normal and more like we remember it before 12 March last year. It will be a time for both joy, expansion and freedom, but not necessarily for all. Some will be left with the consequences of the pandemic longer than others. Some people will have health problems after undergoing disease. Some children have been subjected to domestic violence. Someone wants to hang out at school. Some people want mental health challenges. Others want trouble getting a job. The government's goal is that no one should be left alone with their challenges caused by the pandemic. We've been in this together. Our goal must now be that we too should get out of the crisis. The government will therefore follow up on these areas in the future. We will identify the challenges and identify targeted actions. Much of the work is in progress. Several initiatives will be taken. I will immediately say a little bit more about each of these areas, but first and foremost inform that the government will come back to this in the revised national budget. Recently, the Institute of Public Health has produced the first summary of late effects after covid-19 disease. This could be done, for example, by: are heavy breath, fatigue or decreased sense of smell and taste. Last December, the Health Directorate published the National Professional Council for Rehabilitation after covid-19. Many can get good help through customised services at municipal level, while others need specialised skills and a wide range of multidisciplinary investigations in the specialist health service. The Health Directorate is now working on completing a national rehabilitation plan after covid-19. There are many simple stories that make an impression. Studies are ongoing both in Norway and in other countries to provide more research-based knowledge of late-effects. We want to use this knowledge to build a good rehabilitation offer for those who have gone through covid-19, so that as much as possible can return to life they lived before the pandemic. Many people experience increased loneliness and sadness, and they lack more social contact with others. For most, probably the concerns and feelings of solitude will go over as everyday life becomes more like before. At the same time, we know that loneliness can lead to more mental distress for some, especially for already vulnerable people. For children, young people and others who are insecure at home, the situation we are now facing is extra demanding. We've taken more steps to reduce the negative consequences of the disease protection measures. Since May last year and until now it has been granted over 2.8 billion. kr for the protection of vulnerable groups. The funds include: increased accessibility of health and school health services and children’s and youth psychiatry, to maintain lowthreshold services and activities and to strengthen helplines. In the future, we need to assess whether there is a need to strengthen efforts further. That is why we have recently set up an expert group to look at the consequences of the pandemic on mental health and drug use. The Expert Group shall deliver its report by 30 April and shall propose concrete measures to address those challenges. The government will use the report as a basis for looking at how to avoid lasting mental health challenges under the pandemic. In the last year, many students have received a school offer that has not had the same quality as in a normal school year. Although training at home has worked well for many, we know that it has not worked as well for everyone. There are also geographical differences in the amount of training given digitally. It's set at 500 million. kr to the municipalities that can be used to create new or expand existing summer school facilities in the summer of 2021. Summer school will provide both professional, social and cultural supplements for primary school students. Fafos review of the impact on secondary education does not suggest that more students left school in the 2019–2020 school year. But we know so far little about the dropout in this school year, and it's too early to say anything about the long-term consequences for the students. When we start reopening, it becomes important that we take action so that those who have lost training as a result of the pandemic can receive the necessary support and training, and that those who have started their apprenticeships are given the opportunity to obtain a letter. The grant for completion measures for graduates in secondary education who lack grades in the diploma has been continued by 150 million. NOK 2021. The government has opened up the possibility for county councils to use the grant for summer schools and other training services in addition to the ordinary provision in the county. The incentive allowance for apprentices has been continued by 100 million. NOK 2021. The grant shall be awarded to apprentices who are or are at risk of being permitted or lost to the place of learning and for more people to have a place of learning in the future. In particular, it is aimed at the field of learning that is hardest hit by the pandemic. It's also worth 150 million. kr for an extended offer to those who do not receive a course. The offer has been given the name ‘graduate letter as a student’ and should be a better offer than today’s Vg3 in school. Children and young people have sacrificed a lot under the pandemic. Now we have to extend a helping hand to those who have lost progress in training because of this. For students in higher education and post-secondary education, the existence of a study has become very different from that planned. Some students have problems maintaining their study progress. Some have experienced a worsening economic situation because they have lost their part-time job or because of problems in finding part-time jobs alongside the studies. The government has been committed to supporting the students, at the latest through a package of measures that we presented in January. Among other things, apprenticeships and student relations have been given the means to hire students to follow up other students both professionally and socially. The government wants to support the universities, colleges and colleges in providing as many students as possible with the opportunity to implement the Spring semester according to the standard study progress. The Ministry of Knowledge is now working with representatives of the institutions and students to find compensatory measures that can be implemented quickly. We know that the students have had a tough time in this period, and we've been busy helping with what we can do. I'm glad to see that the total non-responses have not increased. Violence and abuse against children and young people may be difficult to detect even in a non-pandemic situation. Kids like to refuse to talk about their experiences. For many adults it may also be difficult to ask children when everything is suspected to be not as it should be at home. Some children and young people at risk of violence will need treatment for mental health problems, either in the municipality or in the specialist health service. The government has strengthened the competence and capacity of these services, both before and under the pandemic, and we are looking, as I said, at new measures. Work against violence and child abuse is a high priority of the government. We are now in the last year of the escalation plan against violence and assault. In 2021, we increased the effort by 96 million. kr, so that the total bet for the planning period is now approximately SEK 1,1 billion. kr. Work continues, and the government aims to promote a new action plan against violence in close relations before the summer. The Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Justice and Security now identify the challenges of violence and abuse in the pandemic and assess the need for new targeted actions towards the revised national budget. The corona pandemic has given the deepest backlash in the Norwegian economy in the post-war period, and the outbursts in the labour market have been strong. Unemployment has fallen sharply since last year, but is still clearly higher than before the pandemic. Nearly 212,000 people are now registered as jobseekers at Nav. Of these, 115,000 were completely unemployed. Many are young. These are people who want to work, and who we need to work. Many lay-offs are likely to return quickly to work when the disease situation improves. On the other hand, people who have been completely absent from work for a long time may have challenges to get to work. There is therefore a risk that the pandemic could affect the labour market in the longer term. A new wage support scheme shall stimulate enterprises to take the out-of-work lay-off workers more quickly. They may thus prepare for the reopening of the establishment even if the revenue is not yet available. It would discourage the high level of unemployability. The scheme has been developed in cooperation with the social partners. Labour market action is a central tool for getting more unemployed into work. In order to avoid a lasting increase in unemployment, we have significantly increased the number of response sites this year, and Nav is also allocated increased appropriations for, among others. strengthening the follow-up of the long-term unemployed. Persons with low or no formal education are particularly vulnerable in the current situation. The government therefore launched the Education promise in spring 2020, which is a commitment to measures of competence and greater capacity in education at all levels. In 2021, the Education Lift went on with a total of nearly 2.8 billion. kr. This will mean that, throughout the education promise for 2020 and 2021, we will be able to provide an estimated 80,000 people with more education and skills. We will also return to these areas in the revised national budget. The last year has been a tough year. I think we can all agree with what His Majesty The King said in his speech at the entrance to the Passover: Now it's coming to light. Unfortunately, the pandemic is not over yet, and we have to be prepared for more setbacks. But we're also there that we can start planning for the time after the pandemic. Then we have to remember the following: For some, the pandemic is not over when the measures are gone. For some, the pandemic only ends when they get to work, when health is back, and when they've taken it back to school. We have been in this crisis together. We're also going to get out of this crisis together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e1168	The President will now, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 45, open for a short comment round limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each batch group and a closing post from the Prime Minister. The first speaker is Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e1177	Thank you to the Prime Minister for the presentation. I think we all share the hope that we go towards reopening, and that we can see the end of the pandemic. It is significant what we have been facing, that it is about a year since the Prime Minister stood here and presented a reopening plan in what was the first phase. So here we are now after multiple shut-downs. I also think it's worth repeating the thank you that goes to all of the people in the first line when there's a high level of infection, when there's loads – the front line is wide. Those who face the challenges, from those in health care to those who work in Nav, those who lose their jobs and are on the outside, deserve to hear that there is solidarity that must apply to them. No one shall stand alone, and they shall also be seen. People are tired, but they are also patient, they have met many moving goals in terms of rules, recommendations – national, municipal – some and each have had challenges to respect them. So it's like, as the Prime Minister said, that the deepest thing is who decides opening, not here and can't be held responsible, because it's the virus. And I think it's a shared perception in Europe that there must be data over date, that's when we get the infection under control. And so the prime minister can be interpreted, as we go through the four steps, it's pretty far ahead. We have several weeks ahead of us with shut-down, and that means that the consequences can be serious and more serious for those who are exposed. I agree with the Prime Minister in the emphasising of children and young people and the gradual reopening of business, and that it can happen safely, so they don't risk shutting down after a week of reopening. I also agree that we should strive to return to regional, municipal action, which can better reflect the challenge there. I guess that's a little bit of a way to make the plan happen as we go, but the Prime Minister has to be interpreted like this. Then I want to say from the Labour Party that we're here on April 7th and we're going to look forward. So what's important to focus on? Because there is a need to act here and now in terms of the consequences of the crisis. Point 1 is a vaccine. We have to work to get the necessary vaccines. The prognosis is that there will be more vaccines in large numbers. That's good. I assume that the government is doing everything it can to secure Norway's vaccines as planned, and if necessary, take new action. Point 2. We have to make sure that the infection is playing us new puzzles. It has been the weakness ever since the Italian aeroplanes in March 2020. It was contributing to the first, second and third waves of infection. We can't risk a fourth. It is not that the point is that the limit must be closed, but there must be control at the border. And I agree that the companies that depend entirely on imported labour force should not be excluded as long as there is a requirement that control is credible and reliable. And this many companies have shown that they can. But at the same time we have seen vulnerability after the country was so closed, that it came in and contributed to the third wave. Point 3. We need a strong increase in testing and analysis capacity. It's been a topic for a year, it was up in the debate we had on reopening in the spring of 2020. I think we lack a lot of resources to get to the mass testing that the government is about to set up. I think that's the right strategy. It must be followed up in concrete terms. And while we wait, we have to conduct a fair crisis policy that ensures that those affected by this crisis, and the framework that is normally unfair and unequal, is seen. We need to go through the crisis mechanisms we have, to ensure that the perms and cancelers get the help they need in the situation. With regard to the companies that are affected and that are not caught by the schemes, we need to supplement and make it better for them. Then it is necessary to do everything possible to ensure that this health crisis does not create new health crises. I think we must note that we have not been able to do so, because we have a mental health crisis. It may be useful to listen to the expert committee of the Prime Minister, but the alarm signals from everything from municipal services, health services, school health services to specialist health services indicate that we have a crisis. This is why we need to step up the provision of low-threshold mental health services, especially targeted at children and young people, in school health services and in municipalities. Finally, we don't have a date. I want to say in terms of this moving goal, that when we get different signals that yesterday, from one team, we have to have 200 infected per day in order to be able to reopen, from another team, the Institute of Public Health, that we have to have an R-number below 1 for several months, it creates confusion. I would encourage the government to have control of the messages that go with the date. When a date is not set, you should not give the impression that there is a clock ticking.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e1209	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his presentation, and thank everyone who is in the fight against pandemics. The aim now is to provide more predictability in an unpredictable situation. It's not easy, but I think the government provides a sober analysis of the situation and presents a clean plan for reopening society. Norway has managed well through the crisis, after all. An article in Today’s Business Today shows that we are getting the best out of the crisis compared to other Nordic countries and the EU – economically. Large parts of Norwegian business are doing well, but of course the concern is great for the part that has had the pandemic densest in the body – food, travel, culture, transport and commerce have all had and have major challenges. The Easter, which was to become the big festival for many in Mountain Norway, when business was to lay the foundation for a good year, was a shut-down. So it's a little difficult to talk about a reopening plan when so much is shut down, but -- and that's the positive -- the vaccination is going on too fully, and the pace is increasing. The goal now, as the Prime Minister said, is that everyone over the age of 18 should have received the first dose in July. It is joyful and gives reason for hope of reopening. But the corona is unpredictable. New mutations have emerged, so there's no need to detonate infectious measures and the pandemic. This is precisely why it is wise for the government to deal with the first infective situation and burden of disease, the second capacity in healthcare, and the third vaccination — data and not dates, which will quickly create expectations and disappointments. I look at the four steps as milestones that we all have to stand together to stretch towards, as a partial measure on the road towards normality. So the Prime Minister takes hold of the important work that awaits when the pandemic is under control: what do we do for all those who are extra affected? Psychiatric and physical aftereffects, domestic violence, loss of school progression or lack of work are major challenges. I am pleased that the Prime Minister announced that the government will return to this in the revised budget. Open debate on the management of infection is important. I am concerned that the population is being properly and uniformly informed about the management of the pandemic. But right now I think there have been cracking signals from various authorities, which Jonas Gahr Støre was in. Some indicate infection rates; others are concerned with R-numbers. Some have strong opinions about vaccine passports. In an unpredictable situation, how many feel uncertainty about the workplace, about the place in the vaccine queue, about schooling and leisure activities, it is not useful with ever-growing signals and confusing communication. I hope the health authorities think about this when they address the Norwegian people. Some have believed that the government has had too many press conferences. I believe it is better for the government to have press conferences than to create confusion through statements that crack in all directions in all channels. We have been in this crisis for over a year. We have been disappointed many times that the pandemic has still flared up again. That is why I think the Prime Minister's statement is wise. It creates hope, but not unrealistic expectations. It gives us predictability in predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e1228	I want to start by thanking the Prime Minister for the presentation. There is no doubt that there is a lot of uncertainty, and that the plan does not remove this. That's why it's wise not to set any date, because I think the last people now need, are new downhills. The Prime Minister says that ‘no one shall be left alone’ with the consequences of the pandemic. Unfortunately, there are enough people who feel that they are doing just that, whether it's business businesses standing on the edge of the dump, or there are children, young people, older people or many of the groups that have been hit hard. There is no doubt that the population is tired, and that this pandemic can follow us for years. For a long time it will be about saving jobs, creating new jobs and ensuring that people have a job to go to, which is the key to serving your loans, paying children's leisure activities and getting the family to walk around. In the middle of the pandemic, when businesses and people are hit hard, we felt to hear Minister of Finance Sanner when the government was assembled in the budget for 2022, telling us that oil money is going down to a more normal level next year. This is actually in line with the management of the crisis packages so far, where the Storting has cleaned up every time and made sure to improve them. Unfortunately, the government has held back in too many contexts. It was also amazing to hear NHO’s chief economist Øystein Dørum – NHO, who last year sent e-mails and enquiries and was on the ball against Stortinget because the economic crisis packages have been too bad – now that after the pandemic, the economic crisis aid has to be phased out. I don't think anyone wants to spend more money than necessary, but you don't control this through an off-and-off switch. Too many businesses will take time to get on their legs. Many have lost a lot of money. Therefore, it is good that the Prime Minister says that ‘no one should be left alone’ with the consequences of this pandemic. But then it has to happen a lot. The Progress Party has promoted a proposal for a representative to get a strategy for repatriation of business, and I hope that we will have a majority in favour of this. One important point to consider then is the payment of deferred taxes and taxes to the state, where an interest rate of 8 pst has been set, which I think many people experience unfairly. The way the recovery of this will be managed, is going to be a key to whether many businesses survive. At the same time as many companies are bleeding, the State has increased the oil fund by over 1 000 billion. kr. We've just gotten richer through the pandemic. The IMF, which the representative of Greece was in, appointed Norway as a ‘sovereign growth winner in the Nordic region under the corona’. Then I think a lot of people get provoked if the hard work is to be such that businesses and people have to pay while the government earns a lot of money. Therefore, the words ‘not to be left alone’ must be followed up in practice with the consequences. I am very pleased that the Prime Minister is clear that you will come back to the consequences of health care. Expert groups on psychiatry and the consequences of drug use are good, but more is needed. We heard today the news that orthopaedic patients have been exposed five times. We know that it's also going to be a aftermath within the cancer area when this is over. We're going to face major challenges. I therefore hope that how to reduce health cows will be an important topic for the Storting to take part in in the future, and where we get the facts on the table. The pandemic, as the Prime Minister was inside, has had enormous consequences for children and young people. It is also important to follow up on how to reduce the major challenges that lie there, such as: in the area of food refusal, which we now hear has had a terrible development, and how we are going to help these desperate children and young people. So the crisis isn't over when the reopening starts. Then the job starts with dealing with the consequences of the pandemic. I hope that we will receive support for our representative proposal to have a strategy for repatriation of business, because it is going to be so important to get people a job to go to the future. Then we must have a strong private business. It would be wrong if the state got out of this crisis richer, while ordinary people and businesses would have to pay the price. Then we have to fill these words with content: «no one shall be left alone» with the consequences of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e1256	I will also be allowed to thank you for the presentation. People are listed, and that's understandable. People have endured for a long time now. They have been patient, and they have been good at helping to stop infection and prevent outbreaks. That many are now quite sorry, I understand that. Then people need something to relate to. The Prime Minister said that it was now about creating predictability, but I am a little uncertain as to whether this plan presented today is going to give it. I really don't feel today's presentation as a reopening plan. I feel it more like a sketch of what might happen, but no actual reopening plan. So I can understand that someone won't quite get attached to special dates. But that also means that one keeps us a little confused, keeps people in Norway in doubt. Several countries have made a watershed when one has reached a passing level in the vaccination process – that one has either vaccinated all over 50 years or all over 45 years. Neither did I see that the government took into account the sketch that one now presented. That means that I think there are many who will still feel strongly that they are in uncertainty, and that they have not been given the answer they need to deal with today either. I understand that this is a difficult balance. I understand that we have to wait until the number of hospital admissions has fallen, until the R is stablely low. But it is, as many people have been involved here, at the same time increasing the impact on businesses, for those who are unemployed, for students, for children and for young people, for volunteering, for culture. Being out of work is rife, and the social differences in Norway are increasing. I also believe that there are many of the traders out there who are uncertain about their livelihood. So it's important to give people the hope of coming back. I record that the government will not talk about dates or watershed for the number of people vaccinated in the Norwegian community. We just have to take note of that. The center party would like to point out three things that we think are very important. One is a follow-up to what the Holden Committee said, namely the balance between national and local action. It is important, because if one is to have effective measures, and if one is to think at the same time of the socio-economic cost, it is necessary to avoid the use of strong measures in low-infection areas. It was one of the things that was dropped off by the Holden Committee. They recommended emphasising local over national measures combined with strong border control in order to obtain control of imports. It is my advice and the advice of the Central Party that this is also the basis for the next week’s assessment of national measures by the government. Maintaining strict national measures in low or no infected areas will be perceived as disproportionate. It will weaken motivation, trust and excitement. Therefore, there is also a question to the Prime Minister whether it will be appropriate to open up faster locally where one has had persistently low levels of infection in the last three to four months. It is a question I could well have thought of an answer to. The second point is that when the Prime Minister seas highlight the uncertainty about the vaccine and the progress of the vaccine programme, it is also necessary to have an active relationship to obtain enough vaccines at all times. Discussions about getting sufficient vaccines for the population are also a question that is not over but that will continue in the future. The third point is the economic consequences of the situation we're in, and the situation we're going to be in for months to come. It will require the extension of financial measures and will require new financial measures to prevent problems for business, increased unemployment and also a more difficult situation for vulnerable groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e1279	Let me first thank the Prime Minister for the presentation. There was an explanation without too many flourishing formulations, poems and stuff. I'm glad. I think we are now in a phase where clear and concrete messages are required, and I really think with regard to the steps, that it was quite clear and concrete messages. I think we would all like to have some dates to deal with, but I also understand why they are difficult to give. And it's not sure that new dates we can't make right now are the best for us right now. What I think is less clear and concrete is how the government is going to follow up the gradual reopening of society with the social measures that are needed to repair the damage that has been done to society and the community over the last year. The pandemic has become a disparate crisis, where things are going pretty well at the top of Norwegian society, but the low-paid workers who have lost their jobs, those who fall through the holes in the safety net of Norwegian society, and children and young people pay the highest price, and in the light of the food queues at Easter in several of our cities, I expected the Prime Minister to take it more clearly. But this has been the Prime Minister and the weakest side of the government throughout this pandemic: the lack of attention and action in terms of the social crisis and those who have had it tough economically. So when the prime minister is saying that no one should be left alone, the big question is, how? How long should social measures last? Isn't it time to raise the daily allowance something, so the many families that are now struggling to get their ends to meet can make it a little easier in the months that are left? Is it not time to extend the redundancy allowance for people who Nav is unable to help and will not be able to help with long-term measures? And as the Prime Minister was about, but which is a very important political question now: how are we going to put our schools in a position to take back as much of the lost? What are we going to do with the health cows that grow because the health care system has to deal with the pandemic? How are we going to make sure that the start-up of volunteering, sport and culture is not just for those who have endured the pandemic, but can do something about the big drop-off that we have to expect is out there? Can we, for example: To a greater extent open schools for volunteering, sport and culture, so that children and young people who have fallen away can now be actively mobilised and recruited? There's a lot of questions like that. What has characterized the government’s management of the closures over the last year is that it has been too late or not at all brought with it these social measures that should accompany – related to unemployment, linked to companies in bankruptcy, related to the impact on children and young people. And the lack of a fair crisis policy makes it absolutely essential that we have a policy for a fair reopening. The government has chosen, throughout this year, to rule entirely alone in everything that is about infectious diseases. One could choose differently, but one has chosen to do it all alone without involving the Stortinget. In Denmark, there are wide-ranging negotiations on reopening in the same way as one had on the closure. We in SV believe that it would be wiser, because it leads to a greater degree of transparency, that leads to a breakup of opinion, that leads to a greater chance of weaknesses in the strategies being put forward. We think it would be wise to have broader political processes. We just have to bear in mind that the government has chosen to do it differently, but we still believe that the Storting should take more control, and that the power should be shared more. Therefore, I would suggest that the statement be sent to a committee for further consideration, so that the Storting gets the opportunity to add the leads related to the reopening, so that we can get a fair reopening, with a strong emphasis on those who have lost the most in the last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e1298	I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his statement, a statement and a plan that I believe is on the level of concreteity that is possible right now, with the great uncertainty we are facing. It gives a certainty, predictability of the uncertainty – as has been said in the past – an uncertainty that, in particular, we do not know exactly how to develop with the new virus variations. I appreciate the fact that the Prime Minister also places emphasis on the areas to be taken into account in his assessments, i.e. the disease situation, the capacity of the health care system and how quickly we can get to a vaccination. It is also good for the government to give so much priority to relief and to give priority to children and young people. In the case of children and young people, I expect that students will also be included in the assessment – those you can open up to first. It is important – as pointed out – that for most people this is a period of time to get through, we can start to see the end of it. But for many there are consequences of the pandemic with which you have to live for a long time – which the Prime Minister also stresses. Then it is good – both for those who will have long-standing health problems due to the disease, those who may have been subjected to violence and abuse, and the most serious cases where problems have developed that may be long-term in terms of solitude and mental health – that an expert group should submit proposals. It will then be important what is given priority and how this is followed up in the revised budget. I think that precisely in this statement, the Prime Minister places emphasis on these groups. It's done through the pandemic, and the effort needs to be reinforced in the time we see ahead of us. It is clear that with this statement and with the uncertainty about the infection situation, there are a lot of companies that are still going to have a difficult situation. It's about cultural life and outdoors – like here in Oslo, where the patios have now been closed since November, and it's hard to see a date when you can start opening up again – and it's about travel and others. Then we will have to continue to look at measures that can make these better, such as the adjustment of the compensation scheme, the support provided through the municipalities, which has been flexible enough to make it effective, with 750 million. kr extra this week and 500 mill. kr that has previously been notified by the Prime Minister and the compensation scheme we have. I also have to stress that we need to reduce the risk by reopening, especially because the infection situation can change in the future. Then we need the government to take action, but we also need the social partners to do what they can. I would like to encourage the social partners to extend the period of business open without the owners having to pay for a new employer period if the infective situation requires them to close again. Then there has to be a change in the main agreement – I know that there is contact with the government to have a cooperation on it. It is a crucial measure that, in particular, out-of-work and out-of-work can dare to open up again — with the uncertainty you have — and return to a full-time job, otherwise it will only be the part-time jobs you bring. There are many who have now paid twice for the employer’s period, and many will never make it to the third – if they risk it. It is important to use this time also to make the necessary decisions to make it easier when we can open up and reduce risks. Finally, when we are going to start and rebuild the economy, it is of course absolutely essential that we, like all the other countries, also focus on the biggest crisis we are facing – that climate action and halting natural crises must be the main work we are going to do in the years to come. We are going to deal with and adopt a climate plan in Stortinget tomorrow, and the seriousness of this cannot be overestimated.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e1314	I would also like to start by thanking the Prime Minister for the presentation. The comprehensive measures have been necessary, and unfortunately we have to live with limitations for a while. Now that we're discussing reopening plans for society, it's still a sign that we're approaching the very point where we can gradually take freedom back. We can get a better everyday life. It may seem a little strange to talk about reopening strategy as the situation is right now, but we need a strategy and a good plan with clear criteria so that we can open up in a good, safe and controlled way when the time comes. We simply have to be well prepared. At the same time, we know that not everything will be like before, and that it will take time to get back to a more normal state. Schools need time to adapt, groups of students have lost an important part of their training provision during the Korona period. Although school life may seem normal at school start-up until the fall, schools will need time to change and take back the lost. There will be a need to organise schoolwork so that you can take back the group of students that they experience lost during the Corona era. We also know that many people have struggled with loneliness and mental stress. We need a strategy to meet people — not least our children and young people, who have had special challenges under the pandemic. Here it is necessary for the state to set up and contribute and help the municipalities to put this in place. We need a reopening plan that takes care of children and young people in particular. That is why it is good that the government has set up a rapidly working group of experts which can already deliver its report on 30 April. More important than ever, the multidisciplinary theme of lifelong learning is given a central role in all the subjects of the school year to come. Help in coping with life can be especially important in the next school year. Teachers are given a central role in reopening work, but the school health service also represents an important contribution to the work of mental health and health among our children and young people. Children and young people need a healthy school environment, safe families and good activities in everyday life. For many, getting out of isolation can be hard to do. The school student will have a central task in the time to come. Teachers and all those who work first-line against children and young people will have a very important role to play in reopening society. It is about providing safety, guidance and knowledge to children and young people in the coming days, so that they can take their daily lives back. After the reopening and for a long time in the future, we will notice the consequences of this pandemic. Human costs are high. Then there's one thing that's more important than much else, and it's showing care for each other in an important and demanding reopening phase. We're going to get the wheels back on, we're going to secure jobs, we're going to raise the value, and we're going to make sure that unemployment doesn't get stuck at a high level. The fight against unemployment takes place, among other things: that young people must not be allowed to put their lives on hold, for it is not least those who have the shortest experience of working life who could risk staying out of the open. For this reason, value creation and job development are now at the heart of the process, and this can be done in a way that also includes the youngest workers. Let's not underestimate the challenges. I believe afterwards will show that this government led the country safely through the crisis, and that the measures taken just helped to save life and health. At the same time, our job is not over when the pandemic is over. It's when we go back to an almost normal state that we're really being tested as to how many remain outside, even after society is reopened. Once again, when we can enjoy cultural events, social communities, indoor religious services, large family companies and everything we miss, do we remember all those who struggle with heavy thoughts and mental distress? Do we remember the children who had their childhood waiting, and all those who saw their friends disappear? It's when it opens up that we're really going to show what society Norway is. Then it becomes more important than ever to show care for each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e1331	Erna Solberg is unfortunately different-blind. The presentation points to many of the problems of the coronary crisis, but there is not a single word that the coronary crisis is increasing the class divisions even more than the government's differential policy used to do. There are still more than 200,000 unemployed, and hundreds are still in hospital with coronary infection. The vaccine can solve a lot, but it's not the answer to all of the coronary problems. The availability is likely to get stuck and will ensure that those at the top who have received the most support are strengthened out of the crisis, while workers and others who have been hit hard are left with the bill in retrospect. So there's a lot we can't determine about reopening, like dates, but something's already clear. I want to challenge the Prime Minister for one thing in particular: will the government make it a main task to counteract the increasing differences on the way out of the crisis? In the Easter week we saw that the food distribution queue at the Fattighuset in Oslo stretched several quarters around the corner. Last week, figures from the SSB showed that the number of children in poor families increased in 2019, as it has done every year during this government. So this was before the pandemic hit, and there's little reason to think that no new records are set when we get newer numbers. These are concrete consequences of government policy, and crisis management has also been classified. The crisis has shown us that our safety net was too bad when the crisis hit. Many could not afford to pay their bills before the crisis either, as the Prime Minister so aptly said. When the bourgeois cuts the welfare of ordinary people to finance tax cuts for the billionaires, it has consequences. When society is to be reopened, and when the economy is to be relaunched on the way out of the crisis, Red believes that it must go hand in hand with the repatriation and strengthening of our welfare systems, because the welfare state is our most important preparedness centre. For us, the most important thing we do now is to prevent ordinary workers from becoming victims, and that the crisis creates even greater differences between people in Norway. In the last year, the government on the one hand has distributed a lot of money in tax cuts to shareholders and to large business owners almost without claim. We saw from the Capital overview of the 200 richest that for many of the nation's billionaires, 2020 was a golden year. At the same time, the majority of population has had to press the government to introduce, extend and reinforce measures for all the hundreds of thousands who have been out of work or lost, for apprentices, for freelancers and also for AAP recipients. These measures have been essential to avoid even greater poverty and distress among people. However, many have gone for periods — including long periods — without income, both because Nav has been on overtime and because benefits have been cut. The record long queues in front of the Fattighuset show with all clarity that the government has failed. That's why a turning point is needed. We believe that Erna Solberg should notice the strong dissatisfaction. Recently, Ipsos asked whether the government's management of the coronary crisis has increased the economic distinctions between people. Then we saw from the answers that an overweight of voters in all parties – yes, also in the Right – felt that the government's crisis policy has increased the differences. Rather than follow the direction of the Progress Party and cut even more in the wealth tax, Red believes that the richest have to take a greater share of the crisis bill through increased taxes on high incomes, large wealth, dividends or company profits. The richest one percent now have an increasing share of wealth here to land. We have to go to the United States to find something similar, said an SSB scientist to the NRK quite recently. But even in the United States, they are now calling for the G20 countries to join forces to increase the tax on corporate profits in order to prevent the race from getting to the bottom. It is a tax race towards the bottom in which Norway has participated — it must be said — under both red-green and dark blue management. In England, corporation tax is now to be increased. We need to reopen Norway by ensuring work, well-being and income for all. The crisis calculation has to be distributed fairly. We must have a turning point in the fight against Difference Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e1352	I would like to thank you for your comments. I experience an understanding that it is difficult to come up with more date-fixed numbers as the situation is. I just want to comment on some of the posts. A multi-disciplinary theme is the relationship between local and national decisions. Our starting point is the same as it was about four weeks ago, when I last explained to the Stortinget. We believe that local interventions are most targeted in a situation where infection is biased. We have now been in a situation where, because of travel activity, because of the Passover and because of the increase in infection in many places in the country, stronger national measures were needed. Therefore, it will still be the case that local measures will be our priority area to deal with these measures, but we need to have a basis for national action, because with mutated viruses the changes may come quickly. And we see in some places that the changes have come quickly, and then the risk points, as we know are large sites, must also be subject to national measures for a while more. So to vaccines: I think I'll refer to my last participation in the questionnaire where I also got more questions about vaccines. The government is busy delivering vaccines and supplying vaccines. We closely monitor what is happening in other countries. But it's not like it's overflowing with vaccines that it's possible to buy, anywhere. Almost all the initiatives that some people point to are initiatives where it's really about vaccines quite far out in the period, where we think we have enough vaccines. But we're constantly awake and working a lot on it. So this week and next week we'll have 300,000 more doses. It'll increase in the future. The waxnet rate is going to go up, and we're going to get a lot more vaccinated afterwards. But I've always reserved that we don't know what's going on. AstraZeneca is an example of a vaccine that we are questioning about the side effects of, and where one has not managed to deliver on the optimistic signals they gave early, which meant that at an earlier time we thought we could have vaccinated far more now – among others. because we were promised over a million vaccines from AstraZeneca in February in the initial plan that was. Therefore, some reservations are linked to it. However, we are still busy looking and working to obtain vaccines for Norway in the future. As regards the impact on health cows, it is one of the measures contained in the 2021 budget with its own contributions to the health sector to reduce queues. That money is still there. Although we have now had to redo most of the resources in some areas, especially in Health South-East, to be ready for the pandemic, it is still important for the government that we bring down the health cows. Unfortunately, some areas, such as orthopaedics, are among the first where the activity is taken down to release nurses, in order to release personnel, in order to free up activity to strengthen around the intensive capacity. That's also where we have a lot of trained people who can go over to help out in those areas. But we're concerned that we're also going to do it in the future. As far as the issue of an economic recovery plan for Norway is concerned, we have already presented our plan for the way out of the pandemic last year. And we have many good results. Many of the measures we then took for research, development, innovation and to strengthen the adaptability now result in companies, entrepreneurs and many optimistic signs of emerging new technologies, new companies. We've had a business boom so far in Norway this year, and there's access to capital for them to evolve. So even though we have big challenges, especially in 10 pst. by enterprises in Norway, other parts of Norwegian business are doing well. And some of the measures we have already set up also help to strengthen new areas – not least the environment and green growth, which are areas we have prioritised in the actions we launched, among others. Green platform last year. When it comes to questions about the social challenges, we're concerned that we're going to meet all of these. The most important thing is that people come to work. The important thing is that we make sure that we open up again, so that people get to work. The second most important thing is to qualify people for the jobs that are there, and that's what we're working on, through the education promise. I would like to say something about the poor children and the claims from Moxnes, but I just want to make it clear that there is a slightly smaller proportion of children in Norway who are poor in 2019 than it was in 2018. So there are 4,000 more poor children net. 3,700 of them are children who came under the refugee crisis in 2015–2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e1371	The debate on the presentation is thus closed. The President will come back to the further procedure of voting tomorrow at noon. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-07.ana.ud149e1387	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
