ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e86	For the sake of infection prevention, the President proposes that the public gallery be closed during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative, Vetle Wang Soleim, who has been on leave, has once again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e98	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meeting this week, and considers it to be adopted. The President will propose Kari Henriksen and Svein Harberg. – Other proposals are not available, and Kari Henriksen and Svein Harberg are unanimously elected presidents for this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e111	The representative, Mr Nävra, has asked for the floor to withdraw a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e116	I'm registering a certain humming in the hall! This is simply a formal matter. I would like to announce on behalf of the proposers that we withdraw Document 8:289 S for 2020-2021, to realize the North Norway Railway. That's because this case got a clarification in another committee a few days before. So, of course, the path is still to be realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e123	The message of the representative Arne Nävra will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e130	On behalf of Olemic Thommessen, Stein Erik Lauvås, Heidi Greni, Torhild Bransdal and myself, I would like to put forward proposals to provide the municipalities with a clear legal framework to regulate the rental and use of electric bicycles and small electric vehicles.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e136	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e156	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e165	On behalf of myself and Eirik, my alternate, I will begin by thanking the Cooperation Committee on this matter. The cause is a proposal from the Progress Party to change on the basic pension to make it equal irrespective of civil status. The rest of the committee is not at all justified in making a difference between a cage alone or not, when it comes to the basic insurance of the pension system. In addition to this, I speak from the point of view of SV in the matter. For SV, it is important that we have a pension scheme that gives all the possibility of a safe pension and a worthwhile old age. There's a difference between being alone and living together. Those who are alone have to take all the costs alone, pay the bills alone. Those who are single have no one to share the expenses with. The different rates of basic insurance in the pension system have been used by doctors all the way, ever since the age bracket was introduced 85 years ago. It's more expensive to live alone than it is to live together. Therefore, it makes sense to consider the actual differences. The proposal from the Progress Party stands out as strange. Their proposal to remove the curtailment of the pension for married and cohabiting pensioners will cost 5.6 billion. kr. SV thinks it's the wrong priority and use of money to increase the pension also for those with high incomes and at the same time increase the inequality between single pensioners and co-operative pensioners. What is urgent is to raise those living below the poverty line, as we suggested this winter. For 5 billion. kr can do quite a bit for those who have at least one. Finally, I would like to make it clear that the proposers note that they believe it is deeply unimaginable that a non-paid pension has accumulated through a long working life, regardless of its civil status. Here I think the proposers are wrong about how the pension system works. The basic pension, taken up by the proposal, does not depend on the income previously earned, but on the minimum security in the population, which is provided equally to all.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e180	Thanks to the rapporteur for a good job and a transparent review of the case. The Working Party endorses the Committee's position that the proposal should not be adopted. We don't think it's unfair that single pensioners, who don't have anyone to share the expenses with, have a slightly higher basic pension than those who have two incomes. On the contrary, we think it's quite fair. It is also misleading when the proposers present it as a shortening of the pension for married and cohabiting persons. It has always been the case, as the rapporteur said, that the rate of basic pension has been higher than the rate for married and eventually cohabiting pensioners. In addition, it is a continuation from the old age line we had before the popular security was introduced, and the difference has continued into a new age pension from popular security for those who receive a guarantee pension, with the same reason as before: those who live alone have no other share of the expenditure. At the same time, the rates for married and cohabiting persons have been increased several times, from the original rate of 75 pst. to each of the spouses of today's 90 pst. Finally, I just want to comment that it's not entirely true when the Progress Party says they've been fighting every year to improve the status of pensioners. This does not apply to all pensioners. For those who do not have enough living time in Norway to receive a pension equal to the minimum level of the old-age pension, and also do not have pension entitlements from elsewhere, we have the supplementary social security scheme, which was initially intended to ensure that everyone in Norway is a worthy old-age pension by ensuring a minimum income at the level of the minimum social security benefits. There was the Progress Party among the most eager to cut, so that older people experienced losing all income protection overnight, standing entirely on the barside and being referred to as being privately cared for by their children. So there's a little difference between the views of the Labour Party and the Advance Party on what's decent or not. The advancement party was also among the most eager to ensure that all adults who receive supplementary social benefits and share housing with others were less paid, including those who were neither married couples nor cohabitants. For the Progress Party, it's obvious that some pensioners are similar to others. The working party does not share such a view.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e193	Different rates of basic insurance in the single and married pension systems have existed since the age bracket was introduced in 1936. In 1967, the former age-stricken system of differentiated rates for couples and single couples was maintained, because it actually costs more to live alone. It's a general misconception that a pension you've earned yourself is curtailed. The basic pension is a basic economic security which is provided to all, irrespective of their professional activity and income, in order to prevent poverty. It shall reflect, together with the special supplement, a minimum level of income and shall be differentiated according to marital status, since two persons living together may be divided into expenditure which alone must be covered. In the past, there was a full basic pension for married 75 pst. of the basic amount. Under Bondevik II, basic pensions for married and cohabiting pensioners increased from 75 pst. to 85 pst. of the basic amount. And the rate was increased again, from 85 pst. until 90 p.m., under the Solberg Government in 2016. At the same time, the single rate has remained unchanged at 100 pst. of the basic amount throughout the period. In a new age pension, a guarantee pension is also differentiated according to marital status in order to take account of different minimum requirements. Prioritisation of a somewhat better safety net for lonely is part of the broad pension agreement at Stortinget. In a new age pension, spouses who have had such a good earnings pension that they do not receive a guarantee pension will not have a pension that is differentiated according to marital status. Although the minimum guarantees for single and married couples and cohabitants are maintained in a new way, the practical impact on future pensioners will be reduced. I want to remember that the economy of the elderly in general has improved. From 2007 to 2017, according to the SSB, persons over 60 years of age had a real income after tax of 23 pst. Norwegian households in general had a growth of 12 pst in the same period. So the elderly have had almost twice as high income growth as the general population. However, although income growth has not been as good in recent years, the proportion of older people with low incomes has also been greatly reduced. The proportion of persistent low income has increased from 8.1 to 9.6 pst. in general, the corresponding proportion for persons over 67 years of age has decreased over the same period from 16.5 to 9 pst. This means that older people are now less vulnerable to low incomes than the rest of the population. In particular, it's the oldest that's had a better economy in recent years. This is a result of just the broad pension agreement in Stortinget, where the Right, Labour Party, Left, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party took responsibility for securing Norwegian pensions for the future. The right is still behind this and on this background rejects the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e208	What is retirement? For the Progress Party, the pension is a right that has been acquired through a long life, through membership of the population, through tax paid, through social security contributions paid, through what the employer saves for you. I.e. postpaid pay. But then you have this strange arrangement that civil status is going to determine whether you get paid the salary or the pension you actually earned the right to. Today, all the other parties choose to vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party, which says that people will receive the pension or salary they have earned. That's weird. Because, as has been pointed out earlier, the country's married or cohabiting pensioners were curtailed, i.e. reduced, their basic pension by 25 pst. Then the Progress Party has been pressing through several laps and getting it reduced to 10 pst. Now we think it's time to remove it completely. It's argued by an enormous force from this pulpit because why it's so right to cut the pension on the basis that someone's married or cohabiting. What you jump over is that there is only one group in this country that is going to have this abbreviation. For the other parties, if you want to follow the argument, this should apply to government employees who are married or cohabiting. But no, it won't apply to them. Or it might be tempting to say that large-scale couples should receive lower fees or compensation. But no, it's only the country's pensioners who are going to reduce their pension on the basis that they're married or live together. The party of progress has fought against this, but I am not surprised that the same parties that were behind the pension agreement ten years ago, i.e. the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party, the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, have come together in this matter as well. I think that sometimes it might make sense actually to talk to them a little bit. Because yes, many pensioners have good finances. But many pensioners also have a pretty bad economy. In any case, the basic principle here is to lose an acquired right, lose a postpaid salary, on the basis of being married or cohabiting, is unacceptable. That is why the Progress Party is promoting this proposal, which I am referring to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e219	The representative of Erlend Wiborg has taken up the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e224	As many people have experienced, basic pension is a basic financial insurance. It is given to everyone on the basis of living time, and it is independent of the income-bearing professional activity – I would like to underline: the income-bearing professional activity. It is differentiated according to marital status, which is because it is easier when you are two, than when you are one, to divide by the fixed costs – and that is to prevent poverty. If this basic protection were to be changed, we would have steered towards a new injustice by the fact that the lonely people had obviously come out worse, which the Progress Party would not be able to say. The center party supports this setting because we see this as a basic security. Otherwise, in the pension system, increasing labour incomes are giving rise to pensions, and that is a position that the Progress Party also has a maritime support. As others have been involved, it is an old scheme. The great revolution in minimum retirement came in 1967 with Prime Minister Per Away from the Central Party and Social Minister Egil Aarvik from the Christian People's Party. They managed to achieve the revolution that then came, that everyone, regardless of income from work, could get a minimum pension. I think we, who are somewhat older, have some experience from our community for how it turned out positive by increasing the dignity and economic opportunity of the many who had worked a hard life but who had not had a high income because it was to a small extent profitable. There is still a need for a basic safeguard in a new age pension, and the Central Party supports it in order to prevent poverty. When the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde talks about how the basic pension has increased a lot in percent, it's true, but what people go to the store with isn't percent, it's dollars, and we know the difference in percentage of small amounts and percentage of large amounts. The minimum pensioners, the basic pensioners, have percentages of small amounts, so sail if the percentage has increased more than otherwise, which is fair, gives the amount a smaller increase in pensions for them than for those who have a good supplementary pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e235	The proposal for a representative to be discussed here today is a proposal to abolish the curtailment of pensions for married and cohabiting pensioners. The proposers describe it as deeply unfair and without logic in that you do not get a pension you have earned through a long working life, solely based on civil status. Like some previous speakers, I also think it seems that there is a kind of misunderstanding here, so I want to start by clarifying one essential thing: citizens are not deprived of their rights through a long working life, based on civil status. The basic pension is a basic economic security which is provided to all on the basis of living time, irrespective of professional activity and income, in order to prevent poverty. People who have never worked receive the same basic pension as those who have been in work. Different rates of basic insurance for married persons in the pension scheme have existed since 1936. Full basic pension is 100 pst. of the basic amount and be given to single pensioners. Full basic pension is 90 pst. of the basic amount if the pensioner lives with a spouse who receives a disability or retirement pension, a contractual pension for which a pension credit is made, or has an annual income, including capital income, more than twice the basic amount. The basic pension is part of the minimum social security coverage and is provided to all on a social security basis, which has also been mentioned in the past. In my view, it makes sense to take into account real differences in the level of costs between single and married pensioners in the elements of the pension scheme that do not depend on previous income. The basic pension is a component integrated in the calculation of several benefits. An increase will apply to married and cohabiting beneficiaries of old-age pensions and minimum pension levels under the National Social Security Act Chapter 19. Furthermore, an increase is important for beneficiaries of disability benefits who were converted from old disability pensions in 2015 and for contractual pensions in the state and municipal sectors before the age of 65 – ‘population benefits calculated as AFP’. An increase will also have an effect on beneficiaries of pensions or transitional benefits from the social security of surviving spouses and provide increased pension payments to beneficiaries combining old-age pensions and supplementary benefits. The cost of raising it to 100 pst. is estimated at about 5.6 billion. kr. Then I will refer to the new pension commission – or new and new – that has been put down, with the participation of all political parties in the Stortinget. In its mandate, the Committee shall, inter alia: have been asked to assess simplifications in the pension system, including making the pension system more individualised and independent of civil status.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e250	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e255	Parts of the left side have announced that they want to reverse the Progress Party victory once we have reduced this unsocial abbreviation. So my question is relatively simple, because the Council of State is using all its power to argue why it is right that a married or cohabiting pensioner should have his basic pension reduced: will the Council of State, if he is still the Council of State after the elections, take the initiative to reverse the victory of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e261	I don't have any plans for that, and neither does the sitting government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e266	Well, at least it's a pleasure. Then we know that, even though you can make sure that other parties don't get into the Council offices. Several of the speakers today, and also the Council of State, have used as part of their argument that this has been the case since 1936. I must say that it is a very bad argument that you have had an unfair arrangement since 1936. The argument should have been that you should have removed it a long time ago. But what I'm asking the Council of State to answer is: What other groups in society are those who get a curtailment of their pension or income if they're married or live together?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e275	Here, there's a wrong premise in the question, because -- once again -- there's not a curtailment of acquired rights here. One of the reasons why this is the way it is is that this is a basic security in popular security. Then I don't now have a complete list – I have to admit that I am so human that I had to prepare for it – over other benefits or schemes that also depend on household income. But we know that there are other incomes that also depend on total household income. Throughout our public system, it's not uncommon to see it at all. But I think I must encourage the representative to send a written question if he wants a full list of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e282	I hear the Council of State initially cannot answer it directly and try to drive a polemics that it is not curtailment. In fact – and I also ask the Council of State to confirm this – if you are a single pensioner, you have a certain level of pension. If you're so lucky to find love and become a partner or married, can the Council confirm that you'll have to reduce your basic pension from the level you had yesterday to the day after you get married?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e287	I can confirm that this is how coordination works. If it happens the next day, I must admit that is a detail I do not have control of. But the whole premise for this is that when you're married or cohabiting, that's in a household, you get a reduced basic pension. Then it was before 75 pst. And now it's 90 pst. The starting point is that there are different living costs based on whether you live with someone or whether you live alone. Just that principle is not unknown in many parts of the public. We have carrots – or carrots are wrong to say, but we have many extra measures to take, for example. Lonely caregivers, because there's something else when you're one than if you're two.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e292	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e299	It's almost a little strange to sit and listen to this debate, that it's getting so short, because this is an incredibly important debate, and many are concerned about it. I think the question to the representative of Wiborg was quite good when he challenged the Council of State on this with revenues, etc., who gets them reduced because one changes the status from lonely to e.g. married or consensual. In most schemes, it is often the case that you avoid getting things because you get over an income, but not because you get put down, like you do if you go from being lonely to getting married or living with someone else. This is a matter for which the Advance Party has fought for many, many years. My coworker before me, John I. Alvheim, was one of those who stood on from this pulpit to do something about the retirement of older married and cohabiting pensioners. Then we were able to reduce from 75 pst. until 85 p.m., and when the Progress Party came into government in 2013, into the Solberg government, we were able to reduce by another 5 p.m., to 90 p.m., so that the abbreviation is 10 p.m. I don't think this is fair, and I think it's sad that the bulk of the population is so conscious, from all the other parties that have been up here and argued, thinks that this is quite right, that because you're married or cohabiting you should get a lower pension. It's interesting to listen to the representative Lerbreck, who says she's busy giving everyone the opportunity to have a full pension, but that as a married person or a cohabiter you shouldn't have it. I thought SV was busy helping many of those who are struggling, but too many pensioners, also married and cohabiting, are actually a challenge to get the money to stretch to. I agree that one should look at what can be done for single pensioners, among other things. minimum pensioners, in order to increase the pension. When the Progress Party was in government, in cooperation with, among others. Christian People's Party and Left, the amounts of married and cohabiting pensioners were raised. That's good because many people need to increase their income for the expenses you actually have. I'm surprised that the debate is so low and so quiet, especially from many of the parties that they say are busy helping people and making sure that more people get a better income. I'm surprised at the SV and the Workers' Party, but it's okay to have them with me, and I think many married and cohabiting people register that there are parties that are later that you're occupied with the pensioners, but that obviously today show that they're definitely not on the pensioners' side, at least not if you're married or you're a cohabiting pensioner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e314	Like the previous speakers, I am surprised at the silence of this debate, that several of the parties choose not to participate in the debate, and those who have participated have been present and made a brief statement explaining that this has been the case since 1936, and that should be the case in the future. A big choice is the same around the corner, and fortunately we have good time today. Then I ask the parties now to actually be open and honest about what intentions they have, because I think the country's pensioners deserve it. We already know that the proposal of the Progress Party to abolish the curtailment of married and cohabiting pensioners is unfortunately being voted down. It will only have the votes of the Progress Party. I am therefore challenging both the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, which is in the Chamber today and has the opportunity to draw itself now, to come up and respond to whether they want to reverse the success of the Progress Party as we have reduced the unsocial shortening.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e323	In many ways it's said, show me your budget, and I'll see what you give priority to. In this context, I look forward to the priorities of the Progress Party in the revised national budget. We've just heard here that this is a proposal that costs $5.6 billion. kr. I saw nothing about it in their alternative budget for this year, so if it is that the Progress Party actually prioritizes this, I look forward to seeing the priorities of the Progress Party now in the RNB, because then I expect that there will be an appropriate sum to be able to implement this already this year, when the proposal comes. I also think you should remember what has been said here about what is the case with basic pension. It's not something you've earned, it's something all sheep. I think then that when you have such a high profile as the Progress Party has here today, we will see the result when we come out in May and we are going to balance the budget for this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e332	The progress part was kept in the loop in this case, so I thought it was okay that they gave some sound. The Christian People's Party is very interested in pensioners and stands up, especially for the minimum pensioners – we have been with and increased the minimum pension several times, both outside government and in government. What's important to us now is to see a pension in a sanity, because we're waiting for the pension selection, which comes with its attitude to conversion on March 1st next year. We have to be clear about that. I think the trend might be that it goes against individual pensions, but we don't know that until this selection comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e339	When my grandmother passed away last year, 93 years old, she had lived 30 years longer than her expected lifetime when she was born in 1926. She was already working as a 16-year-old, a maid. Then she became a babysitter, she worked as a room picker and ended her working life as – I was talking barpike – a waitress in legendary The Scotsman at Karl Johan here in Oslo. She has always been a woman who has worked in low-paid jobs. When she retired, I think her last payment was NOK 19 600 or something like that after a long professional life. Since popular fear was introduced many years after she began working actively, she was paid more than she had earned herself. Those who today get the basic amount of the pension, and the minimum pensioners, who are often women who have not been in the labour market at all, got NOK 4000 less than her, who had been in work all her life. I think that if she had listened to this debate in the hall today, she had found it something unworthy, for she knows that her great-grandchild, who had hardly moved to fill one year when she met him, will have to work more than she has done, and stand longer in work for probably getting less in retirement than what she herself got paid. I think in this kind of debate there are a lot of grandparents and grandparents who actually mean that we have a generation obligation between generations to look at what we ourselves have worked for and paid for, and what the generation after us is going to pay for. It's nice to encourage all the parties to come here and tell us what they want to do with retirement, but I think that the Right has always had a decent relationship with how to pay in, stand longer in work, that everyone should participate in the community. I think that the country's one million pensioners who have now left the labour market will also find some of these debates unworthy, and that you don't hit what they're concerned about, namely, ensuring a worthy old age for everyone, whom I believe all the parties in this room are occupied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e351	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e368	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e375	I want to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee. We have had many debates on changes to the Working Environment Act in the period that is soon to come, and the proposal to set up a sample to review the whole law and look at linguistic changes and such things will probably be properly presented by representatives of the right parties. I want to concentrate on presenting why the Workers' Party does not support the proposal. The Working Environment Act is one of the laws most often discussed and adjusted. In this way, we can say that we are constantly working on both updating, modernising and, in particular, simplifying the work environment law. In any case, the Labour Party believes that many of the proposals we have made and intend to make will be proposals that both clear up and clarify the provisions for both employers and employees. We believe that the very purpose of the Labour Environment Act is to protect workers and to balance the often distorted relationship of power between the employer and the employee. We also have a number of proposals for changes, such as: to remove general access to temporary employment. That would be a clean-up — removing a provision that has contributed to a lot of uncertainty and to a disproportionate relationship of power in the workplace. Prohibiting rentals that extort fixed jobs and strengthening the preference of permanent jobs as a whole are things we do not think you need to have a sample to work with. No, it's because we want this political, because we want to strengthen the rights of the workers and strengthen the law as a protection law. Often when we hear about this from the right and the employers, it is a matter of the law being so rigid and difficult to understand. In general, however, it is more likely that some of the provisions protecting employees, perhaps mostly in relation to working hours, seem to be modified primarily for the benefit of the employer. What you forget is that the Labour Environment Act is very flexible if you are in an organised business, both as an employer and as an employee, and you discuss regulations with the trustees. For this reason, we believe that a partial purpose of the Labour Environment Act should also be to stimulate higher levels of organisation. We fear that a proposal to carry out such an investigation is solely about weakening the protection provisions of the Working Environment Act. That is why we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e388	Modernising and adapting the Working Environment Act to the labour market desired by workers and employers has been a priority task since 2013, both with and without the Advancement Party in government. It is of course a work that will never be done. It is important that the Working Environment Act and other legislation in force in the workplace evolve over time and are adapted to today’s working life, and it is important to continuously assess whether current legislation is adapted to social developments and sufficiently flexible to meet tomorrow’s working life. If we are to take care of the Norwegian model and the tripartite cooperation, we need to have an up-to-date framework that ensures the necessary balance between the needs of enterprises for development and flexibility and the safeguarding of important employee rights. That's why we have, among other things, reduced two large sample sizes in this area, changed the working time rules, increased the possibility of temporary employment and clarified what it means that a worker is permanently employed, to mention something. The Job Hours Committee, which had the task of assessing working time regulation in the light of increased needs and flexibility for individual workers and businesses, as well as the need for simplification of the legislation, delivered its position in January 2016, which included: As a result, opportunities for more flexible working days were further improved. There is a sample work in the form of a joint sample commissioned to assess whether the current framework is sufficiently clear, appropriate and adaptable for both the current and future working life in the light of changes in forms of association and business organisation. So we have a good knowledge base from relatively fresh sample work, and a new knowledge base is on the way. So the question of this matter, at least for our part, is whether there is already a need to put down another sample to look at this problem. The Fugner Committee will, as I said, deliver its study on the future of working life in June, and we think it would be appropriate to look at the conclusions here before we put down another sample to look at partially overlapping themes. This does not mean that we reject the fact that new sample work to look at simplifications in labour protection legislation will be necessary. Rather, you should probably expect it to be necessary. We believe that it would be most appropriate now to define this to review and present proposals for linguistic changes to labour protection legislation in order to make the legislation more user-friendly for businesses, trustees and employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e403	The fact that we are going to have a good and safe working life for everyone is a broad consensus. If we are to have a good and safe working life, we must have a good law, serious employers, serious employees and good control regimes. We must have effective labour supervision capable of correcting, controlling and not least punishing infringements. Serious violations of the Working Environment Act must be punished, and I am pleased that over the years the Progress Party has been implemented in order to increase the penalties for serious crime at work. At the same time, we need to ensure that actors who are repeatedly taken up for gross crime at work are shut down and not given the opportunity to start up again. It's important for the whole community. It is important for all the serious actors who are out there and who are being out of competition, and not least it is important for individual employees. However, if we are to have a good law to take care of all this, we must also ensure that the law does not become too rigid, so that we end up with a law that does not take into account the needs for flexibility that the companies have, and that not least the individual employees have. Many people point out that today's work environment law has a lot of flexibility in it. Yes, in many areas, there is a lot of flexibility in today's work environment law, but one of the challenges is that flexibility is so rigid to use. Many small and medium-sized enterprises report that they are not able to benefit from that flexibility because of the complexity of their systems. Several trusted people report that it is difficult to understand parts of the law. There are uncertainties in the law. It can be due to two things, and the Progress Party wants to do something primarily with both. That the law should be simplified is unfortunately only about today, the proposal is being voted down, but I am very pleased that it seems to be a majority – the government parties together with the Progress Party – that will ensure that we are now at least given a linguistic update of the labour protection legislation. It's important, and I'm a little surprised that a co-ordinated magnificence doesn't want the law to be written in such an intelligible and good way that trust-chosen companies and individual employees understand what it says, so that you know how to actually follow what it says. I therefore refer to the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e416	The representative of Erlend Wiborg then addressed the proposal to which he referred. The proposal to which the representative Mr Riise referred instead is a majority proposal and is therefore the committee's recommendation in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e423	This is a classic Progress Party proposal. One doesn't define the problem, one doesn't define what needs to be solved, and then there's no order in the sewing business, to say it simply. The progress party speaks of ‘more user-friendly’. What's the prerequisite for more user-friendly is that there are clearer rules. But this is a very demanding question. Norwegian business and working life are very different, so you cannot have the same rules for all types of business. It automatically means that if you want to get secure conditions for both businesses and people and fair competition — well, there are differences, and it is usually more complicated than if everything were similar. The Progress Party is talking about flexible working life. For who? What is this thing? The history of the Progress Party from the outset to the present date is that they have never wanted a strong labour law. They have never wanted, in particular, those who are low-paid — for those who need the most work environment law — to have a work environment law that made them more equitable in their working life. That is at the heart of the policy of the Progress Party. The central party is united with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party that we should have a labour-environment law that protects employees' rights, which creates a greater balance in the power relationship between the employer and the employee, and which also clarifies the mutual rights and obligations – rights and obligations between the enterprise and employees. Norway has a strong labour-environment law, and that is an important competitive advantage. Together with a high proportion of trade unions, collective agreements and tripartite cooperation, it contributes to the creation of a good labour productivity development. That's something we really need to protect. I noticed the greeting of the Council of State on 1 May, where he made a settlement with his youth – very interesting, wise by the Council of State – where, as I understood, he left himself on a line that is completely in line with what I am now saying. The right also talks about more flexibility and says that one should change the working time rules. It is primarily from the Right that you should have a longer working time without an agreement with a trade union. One is talking about changing temporary employment, i.e. getting more of what is today § 14-9 f, which is going in the wrong direction. [[2]] After all, the government had to be pushed by the opposition, including the Christian People's Party, when there was more cleaning up in the manning companies. The sentence that I think was the basis for the support of the Christian People's Party was: ‘A well-organised working life is a prerequisite for a safe family life.’ There's the Center Party, and we're going to follow it up in every context.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e443	I have a lot of things I can take into account from my youth, so it may well be the beginning of some sort of pedagogue in areas where I have changed politically since I was 17 – fortunately, one must say. These are actually two discussions. One discussion is the proposal put forward by the Progress Party, where it is a final sentence that says that we want a sample to look at a type of liberalisation or at least simplifications and embellishments. Government parties have not been in it. There are several reasons for this, but one of the reasons is that we've had a lot of samples in this area. That's an important argument for that. Then another question is what is actually some of the majority proposal, with the government parties included, and there is a sample to look at linguistic changes in the work environment law to make it more user-friendly. You may not remember this, but the working time committee had some input related to just linguistic simplification. Then the very idea is that when you simplify the language, it is to make the language more accessible, but without changing the substance. In connection with this, the Ministry also received a legal language package from diffi, where work in the ministry was started to follow it up and review the provisions and assess the changes in the law. That work has not been prioritised followed up further. This is a work I think more could really join. We would like to have discussions about whether we should have decorations in the legislation, but that we should have a linguistically up-to-date law, I think is something that more people should be able to join. There are also different possibilities for making linguistic simplifications in the law, that is, without changing the substance. For example, working time rules are of a very technical nature and regulate relatively complex conditions. In addition, collective agreements are to a large extent structured around the rules of the Labour Environment Act, and therefore it could be thought that a linguistic change would involve a greater effort to adapt tariff agreements to a language-adjusted legislation. It is not that we always manage to make laws that everyone understands. It's not possible for us non-lawyers. But it should be an ambition that the law we have is in as clear and accessible a language as possible, not least in the case of a law as important as this law we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e458	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e463	When I hear the way Wiborg and Røe Isaksen speak, there are quite a lot of different approaches to what this proposal, which is likely to be adopted tomorrow, implies. Where Wiborg speaks of the need for increased flexibility, the Council of State speaks exclusively of linguistic changes without changing materially on content. That is why I have to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State believe that tomorrow's decision, if that wording is adopted, will be solely about work involving linguistic changes, without changing the substance?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e470	I think the reason why we're talking about two different decisions is because we're talking about two different decisions. I assume that the representative, Mr Wiborg, is talking about the proposal that the Progress Party has made, while I have been talking primarily about the decision that lies there. I see it as a decision that primarily wants to look at linguistic updating and simplification in the legislation. I do not see it as a proposal for a new type of working time committee, which delivered in 2015, 2016 or something like that – it is possible it was a little before that. I do not think that is necessary after such a short time. So there's a disagreement, not between the representative Wiborg and me, but between the representative Grande and me, about what kind of protection we need. The fact that we need a protection law is clear, but I think these are good arguments for continuing to look at moderate decorations and adaptations, for example. with more local freedom of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e480	If I were to understand the Council of State that it was only about linguistic changes, it could actually have been something the Workers' Party had considered to vote for. That is why it is interesting in the time until tomorrow's decision to decide whether that is actually what the Council of State says, and that there is agreement on that among the proposers. Then it is as watered out – as if it were in the law, for example. said two a's and we think it's modern to write like an a with a rounding over – that it's something other than what I think the representative who's going to have a line after me, put in the decision. So to make it clear to the Storting: How does the Council of State think the content of that proposal is? Will there be changes in the law, with content, or will there be only linguistic changes without substance? It is important that we get an answer before we decide how to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e487	Now it is primarily the parties that have to explain how they understand the decision, and they do so in part in the comments. As I understand it, it is primarily a sample to look at the linguistic – modernisation, updating, simplification. The representative of Grande uses the word ‘only’. It may be that such a selection, where the idea is that the parties are also to be represented, will find that there are areas where, in order to get the necessary simplification, something has to change the substance. But I don't see it in any way as a full, new round of a working time or working life committee or a full round of the Working Environment Act. I also did not see that as the intention behind the original proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e494	I can recommend that the representative of Grande actually read the Committee's position, because then he would have seen that it reads 'promoting proposals for linguistic changes in labour protection legislation'. The Council of State made a good point, although I must say that it is not that all previous political positions are like a good vintage wine. Sometimes the original position might have been the best, but it might come a little bit to the eye that looks. But I am very happy that you now seem to have a majority in order to at least go through exactly what the Council of State has rightly explained – the linguistic changes. It is quite right that the Progress Party wanted to go further, and that is also why we have our primary proposal, and then we have come up with a good proposal together with the government parties. But the question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State now immediately start work on bringing down this sample together with the parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e505	Yeah, I thought so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e510	And with that, the line change was over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e529	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e536	Thanks to the representatives who have raised the matter ‘to allow people with disabilities to choose zero-emission vehicles in Nav’. Thank you to the Committee, which, in this case, provides a divided configuration. The parties can do their best in the debate afterwards. Thanks also to the Disabled People's Association and the Norwegian Electric Car Association for good recordings. I now want to move on to the Christian People's Party of the People's Party of the People's Party of the People's Party of the People's Party of the People's Party of the People's Public security laws give people with long-term mobility difficulties the right to benefits in order to meet their transport needs. The benefit is given either as an incentive to obtain an ordinary car, so-called a group 1 car, or as an interest-free and royalty-free loan to a special-purpose car, a group 2 car. Regular cars are provided by the user himself, who is free to choose, in the same line as a function refresh. The suggestion providers want this option to be doubled so that several people can choose zero-eject cars. Today's surcharge is at a full rate of NOK 160 507. We believe this gives a good boost to getting a car that can either be new or used. Electric cars have been on the market for so long that there are many good used electric cars to be bought, in line with fossil cars. Electric cars are subject to VAT exemptions for the purchase of new cars and are already subsidised by the State. It should not be difficult to find cars, new or used, which do not cost much more than the rate of charge. If the proposal were to increase, there would still be no guarantee that this increase would be used to select an electric car instead of a more expensive fossil car. We understand that the proposers are restless with a view to making people change the choice of a car. The objective of the new car dealership is to only be achieved by zero-emission cars from 2025. With this proposal, however, the proposers will decide what kind of car people with disabilities should have, i.e. the requirement for a zero-release car must be demanded for them rather than for others just because one depends on conversion to e.g. lift We can try to influence the suppliers to produce own cars that can be rebuilt according to individual needs, but the reality is that we are largely award-winning cars available on the market. We have to treat people the same time as we have to work to reduce CO2 emissions. The Christian People's Party believes that this proposal is not the right way to reach both of these goals. We shall vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e556	Thanks to the proposers for raising a problem that could easily go under the radar. When the rest of Norway has a target that by 2025 new car sales should be emission-free cars, what about cars for disabled people with public support? Thanks also to the case rapporteur for having thoroughly addressed the issue raised in the SV proposal. During the review of the Climate Plan for 2021-2030 four weeks ago, the Workers' Party supported several proposals which, unfortunately, were voted down, including proposal No. 90, from the Labour Party, the Swedish Environment Party and the Greens, that the most environmentally friendly suppliers should be presented in competition for public procurement. The proposal is relevant in this matter, but unfortunately was voted down by the Right, the Advance Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The same applies to proposal No. 59, where the Workers' Party together with the same batches provided the Government with the facilities for zero-emission vehicles throughout the country, including with enhanced charging capabilities. It is most relevant for disabled people with car benefits from the public sector, but unfortunately this proposal was also defeated by the same batches as mentioned above. The same was true of the proposals. 67 and 72, to impose requirements on the public to purchase zero-emission cars from no later than 2022. They were downplayed by the same parties. The working party agrees in principle with the SV's proposal that environmental requirements should be imposed in connection with group 2 car tendering and that grants for group 1 cars should not have financial constraints to prevent beneficiaries of group 1 car subsidies from choosing environmentally friendly alternatives. At the same time, we have noted the response of the Council of State to the Committee, where he says that there are already requirements in calls for tenders for the provision of emission-free cars for Group 2 cars, but that there are currently technical challenges related to battery capacity and range that make the requirement not absolute, for the benefit of users themselves. The Workers' Party agrees that users' needs must be the most important, but assumes that the Council of State ensures that the legislation on car support is continuously updated in line with technological developments. We are therefore not going to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e569	There are many good intentions in this proposal for a representative, in which the Progress Party too naturally joins. Nevertheless, when we vote against the proposals, it is simply because we are concerned about solving the most important challenges for people first. For people with developmental disabilities and the need for a car, we have long seen that the first problem many encounters, in fact, is fast enough to access a car through the various social welfare schemes that are. The second is that users need services and access to a car that must be decisive for what kind of car they will eventually end up with. As the Council of State also refers to, this is also about technological maturity in the market – there are too few cars available, at least at a reasonable price, building and making available to many of those who have special challenges with their car use. Then this is actually a very simple thing. Of course, it helps people who want it to be able to choose whether it is a decent offer or a car type available for it. If not, the state is exempt from detailed regulation and let those who need it actually choose the car that is most likely to meet that need.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e576	It is incredibly important to stress the need for a car for people with disabilities. It gives ordinary freedom in everyday life, as it is for us who are not disabled, and it gives the disabled the freedom to have a place of residence that is also like that of others. You don't have to be connected to the asphalt, to say it simply. There are good intentions in the proposal, but, as many people have pointed out, the Central Party sees it as important to give priority to the needs of all disabled people for a car, for public support for an appropriate car. When the Workers' Party refers to what has been said earlier, I can also refer to what we have done in the state budget context, where we have gone in to increase the appropriations for disabled people's use of a car in Group 1 and Group 2. We've really prioritised it with more money. When we do not support the proposal, it is simply because we have to get the appropriations up first, so that we can meet the basic needs first, and thus that requirements for zero-emission cars, which are more expensive cars, should not be at the expense of the needs of the many, which are reality today. But as I said, these are good intentions. The appropriations are too small, and then we must give priority to a good car for those who need it in both Group 1 and Group 2. It's priority number. One from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e585	Those in this room who understand the seriousness of climate change and who want to maintain climate objectives and international agreements must look at any possibility of lowering greenhouse gas emissions – and not look at any possibility of not doing so, as the Progress Party often does. All government documents on climate and transport underline the importance of public procurement and tender conditions. It means a lot to a rotation in the desired direction. It applies to all fields of society. The case in question is just such an area where it is possible to set conditions and get to a turn, get to a change. We have to seize all of these possibilities, otherwise we won't reach our targets. If we don't use the tools we have, we don't. It was said by the Council of State and by the majority here in the Committee that there are probably not enough electric car types in the market yet for this user group. It is rejected by the professionals in the hearings, among others. by the Norwegian Electric Car Association, which supports the proposal to impose environmental requirements on Nav in connection with tenders for car suppliers. And those who come into the electric car market have reported that a number of new vans and multi-use cars have been brought in, with a payload of up to 1 tonne and well over 300 km in reach, this year. The equipment that is needed to adapt these cars to drivers with disabilities is – as far as we have understood – approx. 300 kg. The electric car association points out that of course new electric cars have the latest technologies to help different types of motorists with mobility challenges, all kinds of electrical and technological solutions. It is important to mention that people with disabilities have a much lower economy than the rest of the population and that an electric car could help to save more people a lot of fuel. We know that has an electric car. It is also necessary to increase the grant for acquisition, so that more people have a realistic chance of buying an electric car. There might be the same number, or so many, of drivers in this category that are environmentally aware, but they don't have the ability to buy an electric car. Adapted electric cars that are suitable for the needs of disabled persons are relatively expensive. Therefore, a higher grant is needed. Long-range, often linked to higher prices, also reduces the demand for charging along roads. There will be fewer stops for charging, and it is good for drivers with disabilities. The charging stations are not well enough universally designed in many places. The FFO, as SV, wants to make it easier for people with disabilities to choose a zero-emission car when purchasing a car through Nav. Then I take up the suggestions that SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e606	The representative Arne Nävra then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e611	Like the majority of the Committee, I support the intention and the objective of the proposal for a representative. I therefore agree with the intention that cars purchased by Nav, or for which Nav has supported, should be zero-emission cars, as far as possible, like other cars. Having said that, Nav must also take sufficient account of the possibilities for obtaining cars that are appropriate and operationally safe for the target audience. It must be possible to carry out the necessary conversions and installation of the necessary additional equipment, such as: ramp and hoist. The feedback received from the supplier market by Nav is that they can offer little suitable electric cars to meet the needs of persons dependent on specially adapted vans. There was also uncertainty about the possibilities for the necessary conversion of the cars and the installation of optional equipment. If Nav is now to require suppliers to provide zero-emission cars, we are at risk of being in a situation where we cannot provide the target audience with safe and suitable cars. I am therefore pleased that the majority does not support the proposal. I have also noticed that the majority does not go in to double the subsidy for the purchase of Group 1 car if you choose zero-emission cars. Electric cars are currently a cost-effective alternative because of the differentiation of charges between electric cars and fossil-fuel cars. The proposal to double the grant would therefore have the effect of subsidising the electric cars twice. Nav has a strong focus on environmental considerations in its acquisitions. I therefore assume that Nav will be able to offer zero-emission cars to people who are dependent on specially adapted vans, as soon as this can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e624	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e629	The Council of State in its response to the Committee, and so far as this is concerned, says that there are currently technical and not political challenges that stand in the way of absolute requirements for providers of these types of cars. So the Council of State also says in the letter we have received, that it is his impression that the labour and welfare community has a great deal of focus on the problem, and that he expects suppliers to be able to offer suitable cars. Then it might be interesting if the Council of State could be a little more precise: what does he do to ensure that the labour and welfare movement puts the necessary pressure on the suppliers, so that disabled people without undue delay can have the same opportunities to drive environmentally friendly as others?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e637	Just to clarify, when I say the impression, it doesn't mean to sit 300 meters away and have a vague impression of something. That's because we're talking to Nav, and as Nav says, they're also busy with this. I am a hot follower of using public procurement also to drive environmental requirements. That means that my expectation is very clear. It is that at the moment when clear environmental requirements can be imposed, and Nav can be a driver for this within a reasonable framework, Nav will do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e642	I then register, at what the Council of State says, that there must be disagreement in the professional environments with regard to accessible cars for this user group. I understand that he says that it is the car importers or suppliers who say that one cannot deliver such types of cars satisfactorily today. I also register that the Elbil Association is of a different opinion. Is that how to understand that it is the suppliers that the Council of State trusts, and to a lesser extent organisations like, for example, The electric car association?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e649	I do not trust both the Elbil Association and the suppliers as much as I do. There's no differentiation there. I get my information from Nav, to say it very easily. It is Nav who is responsible for this. They're the ones who've talked to the suppliers who's involved, and it's based on the notions that we've blacked out the Storting that we have. So it's like all the big ones agree with the intention and direction around this. Here's a development that's ripping fast, so there's every reason to believe that this isn't going to be a problem we have to deal with through countless magnification sessions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e656	I thank you for your answer. I think the government council has a good intention, he too, and I record, of course, that the Right is very concerned about, and has also used, the state's purchasing power. It's very important. What surprises me then is perhaps the attitude to proposal No. 2, from SV, where we want to increase – in this case to double – the grant to group 1 cars for this group. Are there purely budgetary reasons why the Council of State cannot support this proposal, or what else is behind it? Can he propose any similar proposal to the budget procedure for the autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e663	Yes, it has a lot to do with, among other things. The budgetary situation to do, but as I also said in my article, electric cars are very favourable – because we have an extra favourable tax regime, and of course also related to fuel costs. So that's the main reason for that. What I am promoting in budgetary processes is not coming out here. You may be told in the budget. Then the representative knows what's in the budget; what I've promoted along the way, you have to buy my autobiography in 20 years to find out.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e670	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e677	I got a little talk about group two cars. It might be a little late to say it now, but I want to add that when it comes to group 2 cars, it's cars that are more suited to the needs of the user. Thus, the cars are purchased by Nav, who provides for conversion. In these cases, there may be construction of ramps or gas and brake handling located on the steering wheel. Of course, care for the transport needs of the user must be taken first. The car must be suitable for conversion and must be operationally safe. Several and more suppliers are developing larger electric cars that can meet the needs of users of Group 2 cars. There have also been dialogue rounds with the supplier market to ensure that they are aware of the need for adaptation. A new framework agreement for Group 2 cars will also be more environmentally friendly, in line with what is available in the market. Sit one in a wheelchair and need an own car with support from Nav, and have to have the same choice as a function refresher to choose a driver. After running an electric car for ten years, and now with a third generation electric car, it's not possible to stab under the chair that the particular winter can still be problematic. I experienced that three weeks ago when I was going to run over Hardangervidda. It wasn't easy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e686	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e703	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e710	The Committee fully agrees that sexual harassment is a social problem that leads to a working life that does not provide equal opportunities for all. This makes sexual harassment a societal challenge, but also a work environment problem. So when the majority's recommendation is to reject the proposal, there is still agreement that sexual harassment is unacceptable, should be dropped on, handled and prevented. That being said, the majority also believe that the intention of the proposal is already respected in existing legislation. Then I see that there is disagreement as to what the purpose of the proposal is, that this is not about clarifying the prohibition of sexual harassment, as the proposal says, but about clarifying the employer's responsibility for including measures against sexual harassment in the HMS work. However, the majority point is that when the employer is responsible for a good psychosocial work environment, this requires the absence of sexual harassment. This is also underlined in the Supreme Court judgment of December 2020, which shows that the obligations of employers under the Equality and Discrimination Act § 13 are complemented by the general obligation of the employer to ensure a fully sound working environment. However, the minority of the Committee considers that there is reason to further clarify this, and I believe that this will be explained in more detail by those behind the proposals. The right is concerned that all forms of sexual harassment should be controlled. Thanks to campaigns such as methotrexate and increased attention to the problem in the wake of this, a lot of work has been done to prevent, manage and respond to unwanted sexual attention and harassment in recent years. Among other things, a low-threshold offer has been established under the jurisdiction of the Discrimination Study, which has been empowered to make decisions as to whether a person has been subjected to sexual harassment, and to impose reparations on such matters in the workplace. The Labour Inspectorate and the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman have strengthened their cooperation in the fight against sexual harassment; they have provided training material for employers, trust-elected and protection representatives and joint training for inspectors in the Labour Inspectorate. The partners in the catering industry, in cooperation with the Labour Inspectorate and the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, have carried out their own information campaign, and the authorities and the parties have jointly developed guides, a course for the prevention and management of sexual harassment at work. We agree that although much has been done, reports from different environments in both social and work life still indicate that we still have a way to go before we see real equality in all parts of society. Nevertheless, we believe that the proposal has been complied with and reject the proposal on this basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e723	Despite the fact that we have now had many years of struggle for more equality and better working environment and against harassment, we are still receiving reports of harassment, sexual harassment and bad relations from different parts of society, including from the workplace. One of the reasons why we, together with SV, promote the proposal in the vote is that one has an impatience in order to make changes faster in order to get a safer and better working life for more people. So where the right-hand side leans back and wants to take the time to help, here we express an impatience after we want changes faster. From the trade unions, inter alia: Labour inspectorate points to a number of factors that may influence the exposure to harassment and sexual harassment. There may be a lack of systematic HMS work and psychosocial work environment, and there may be how culture or jargon are at work. When we see examples of unworthy relationships drawn in the media, it can often come as a surprise to management, or you can see claims that you haven't been aware of this situation. We do not want a working life where it is the sole responsibility of the individual employee to stand up to this or avoid it happening. Of course, it's also important, but it's a management responsibility how culture develops, how jargon is, and how to act together. Stressing that it is the responsibility of management to facilitate the fact that the ban on harassment and sexual harassment actually has an impact on the individual workplace is why we want to promote this proposal. Thus, management can no longer say that we did not know about this, or we believe that this is the individual's responsibility. No, the management has to say that this is also our responsibility. This is a shared responsibility, and we as management have a responsibility. We have to stop people with leadership responsibilities in society and in the workplace saying that this is not our table, this is not our responsibility. With that, I am submitting the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e732	The representative of Arild Grande has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e737	The issue we are dealing with now is one where everyone agrees on the intentions, and that is an important debate. Although you've concluded a little different about how you're going to vote, I think the debate itself is incredibly important. As the previous speaker was in a good way, there is no doubt here that we need to show where the responsibility lies. First of all, the fundamental: each of us, each employee, has a separate responsibility for not harassing. It's quite obvious. But as the representative of Arild Grande was also clear, there is no doubt that the management of the individual enterprise has a special responsibility for the kind of culture in the workplace, how to detect any unculture, and how to get rid of any unculture. Everyone agrees that all forms of discrimination, including, of course, sexual harassment, are unacceptable. But that's what the law already says today. The law is clear that all harassment is forbidden. But there is no doubt about it sinning. But if the law is not followed, it doesn't always help to re-adopt the law. We must then go in and see how the law is actually being enforced, and what can be done specifically to ensure that the intentions of the law, and now the whole intention of the Storting, of combating harassment, and especially sexual harassment, are implemented. That is where the debate should be. I think a lot is also about making each other conscious. Because there may be simple comments that were originally not meant to be harassment, but that are perceived to be harassment by others. It can in turn contribute to the development of a culture where it comes, for example: jargons, etc. which is not acceptable. So I'm happy and will also just make it quite clear from this pulpit that sexual harassment and all other harassment are totally unacceptable in the workplace and in society in general. But the Progress Party believes that the law is basically good enough, so you better see if the enforcement of it is good enough, and that's where I think we all have a job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e750	This is an incredibly important matter. Going to work should be safe, it's about dignity. In the last ten years, we have seen a marked increase in registered cases of sexual harassment in the workplace — a marked increase — and it is embarrassing for a well-informed society. It may be timely to ask, what's going on? But it is not to take responsibility. Taking responsibility is that we, as big business representatives, are very conscious and clear about what kind of vocabulary, attitudes and actions we use and accept in society otherwise. Words are power, and it's our responsibility as elected representatives. Sexual harassment occurs in all activities where people interact, in large state enterprises and agencies, in politics and society, and we are still hearing about foreign parliamentarians and other trusted employees at government and parliament level who also do not have the right views. Australia recently witnessed this. Sexual harassment is a serious work environment problem. According to living conditions studies, more women than men report being exposed to sexual harassment at work, and young women are most vulnerable. This type of harassment requires a fundamental and lasting change of attitude. Good attitudes lay the foundation for a well-functioning working environment. It is and will always be a management responsibility. Thinking that everyone has grown up with the same value base is wrong. Too many people take too easy on unculture, and too few leaders take such a demanding deal with the weight that is needed. The centre party will bring this problem to life. With this proposal, SV wishes to clarify the prohibition of sexual harassment in the Work Environment Act and place responsibility with the employer. However, both demands have been made for the psychosocial work environment and internal guidelines have been developed on how to behave and behave towards each other at work. Unfortunately, it has not provided the necessary results. We have to be clearer. Therefore, the Centre Party proposes to go further by transferring today's legal text of the Act on Equality and the Prohibition of Discrimination § 13 to the Working Environment Act for the extension of the condition of the legal text, specifically § 13-1, which deals with protection against discrimination. This is where it belongs. I'd like to take up the proposal of the Center Party. The centre party will vote subsidiaryly for the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e769	Then the representative Per Olaf Lundteg mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e774	I would like to start by thanking the President-in-Office for a good introduction to the debate. There are a lot of people who experience unwanted sexuality during their working life. This has great consequences for the individual, and I would assume that it is not quite rare that the victim of this will do well to change his job – simply to cancel an otherwise pleasant job in order to avoid this kind of attention. Sexual harassment in the workplace is clearly outlawed; there is no doubt about it, but it has not been said that a ban is enough to deal more with this type of harassment and bad behaviour. Several of the parties who vote against this proposal today seem to believe that the case is about the extent to which sexual harassment is prohibited by the Work Environment Act or not. I want to make it clear that there is no doubt here. The reason why things come up, and that we suggest this, is precisely what more is needed to put an end to this type of harassment in the workplace. Both the Labour Inspectorate, the Equality and Discrimination Office and Parat’s gender and diversity selections point to the fact that there is just an indication of the employer’s duty to prevent and prevent this which could reduce the incidence of this type of harassment. The systematic work of HMS in enterprises that are good at doing this gives a very clear result. This is precisely what needs to be clarified in the duties of the employer in the Working Environment Act. In addition to this, I refer to the comments for SV in the document.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e785	Metoo was a wake-up worker in work. Everyone knows about sexual harassment in the workplace, and many people know about companies that have a reputation for a career in business. Metoo was a waker without equal. Now you can talk about sexual harassment more and more openly, and there are constantly new warnings here at home and around the world from different environments. This is good. Transparency and accountability are the key to cleaning up. Both equality and discrimination laws state that sexual harassment is outlawed. In addition, a Supreme Court judgment of December 2020 stressed that employers have a general obligation to ensure a fully-fledged working environment. There is no doubt or inconceivability that the harassment procedure in the work environment law covers sexual harassment and soleis are covered by the harassment ban in Section 4-3 of the Work Environment Act. The Christian People's Party has noted the fact that harassment is defined in equality and discrimination laws as unwanted sexual observation for the purpose of being offensive, frightening, hostile, degrading, demeaning or annoying. All harassment must be fought against. That's why the Christian People's Party is part of the plural proposal. It is gratifying and necessary that the Equality and Discrimination Office has strengthened its cooperation in the fight against sexual harassment. The Labour Inspectorate and the social partners, together with the Equality and Discrimination Office, are on the ball and have created information material and courses to be used as tools in the prevention and management of sexual harassment. We're about to talk about this. We have warning channels, and in a society like Norway, we have laws that prohibit sexual harassment. This we have to get away from.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e799	When the Metoo movement made the extent of harassment visible, many were surprised at how many have repeatedly been exposed to undesirable words and actions, and that it is taking place everywhere — in politics, in the city, in sports, in the media and also in the workplace. In the wake of the Metoo, Red was the first party to propose how we can combat sexual harassment. We had some important breakthroughs, including: lowthreshold services for dealing with issues of sexual harassment, but that is not enough. Now we've just celebrated 1 May, and many have talked about the safe working life we have in Norway, but that security doesn't apply to everyone. One in five in the hotel, restaurant and health care sectors are sexually harassed at work. It has consequences for those who are exposed to it. Several say they have suffered mental distress as a result of the events or have wanted to stop their job. Every third employee in the cultural sector has experienced sexual harassment at work. Common to many is that they are temporarily employed, and thus they are much weaker than their employer and boss, and they are easier to exploit than those who have permanent employment protection. This is about power and renunciation. We have to take over the real power relationship in the world of work and also how legislation can shift the power from the employee to the employer. Therefore, earlier proposals have been made by Red to investigate whether unsafe forms of association with the labour market, such as temporary employment or renting, increase the risk of sexual harassment and abuse. That proposal was put to the vote by the civil parties. As SV does today, we have also put forward proposals to clarify that it is the responsibility of the employer to include measures to combat sexual harassment in the HMS work, and we naturally support that proposal when it comes back again today. In addition, we have our own proposal to investigate the legal liability of employers in the event of a breach of the protection clause of the Equality and Discrimination Act, because it cannot be the responsibility of the person who is subjected to harassment, to prevent and to combat harassment. That must, of course, be the responsibility of the employer. We want a safe working life for everyone, and then it's an advantage if not the government parties are like a brake block in that work. If they vote down all the proposals today, it means, in practice, that unfortunately they have learned little from metoo. I take up the proposal from the Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e816	Then the representative Björn Moxnes mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e821	The representative proposal implies that employers' responsibility for preventing and preventing sexual harassment is to be reflected more clearly in the Employment Environment Act than it does today. Let me make it clear that sexual harassment is prohibited under the Working Environment Act. The law provides for a clear ban on all forms of harassment and, in addition, any other improper conduct. As I see it, there is no disagreement about this either. As I also wrote in my letter to the Committee, I think it might be unfortunate to bring forward one type of harassment rather than others in the Working Environment Act. The Labour Environment Act is the general Labour Protection Act and covers, as I said, all harassment. If sexual harassment is brought forward separately, it could give the impression that this kind of harassment is more important than other forms of harassment, which, in my opinion, is not necessarily a proper signal to give. I therefore believe that the most appropriate thing would be not to change the law. The government is committed to combating all forms of sexual harassment and a number of measures have been implemented. Anyone who is sexually harassed can now promote their case for the subject of discrimination, which is a low threshold for such cases. In the labour market, it has been given the power to decide whether or not a person has been subjected to sexual harassment and to impose compensation for restitution in this respect. The Labour Inspectorate and the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman have further strengthened their cooperation in the fight against sexual harassment. An online guide has been created with practical advice and suggestions to prevent and prevent sexual harassment, and training material has been created for employers, trust-elected and protection representatives and joint training for inspectors in the Labour Inspectorate. The parties to the catering industry, as we know is a particularly vulnerable industry, have, in cooperation with the Labour Inspectorate and the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, carried out their own information campaign, and the authorities and the parties have jointly developed a guide and a course as a tool for preventing and managing sexual harassment at work. The employer is responsible for a safe working environment, and the Labour Inspectorate supervises and imposes the necessary requirements, but we must not forget that colleagues have the right and the duty to inform them if they become aware of the existence of harassment or discrimination at work. I believe that the law we have, with a special ban on sexual harassment in the equality and discrimination laws and a general ban on all forms of harassment in the work environment law, provides a good basis for the work that needs to be done in different industries and in individual workplaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e836	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e841	In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State states that clarification in the law is unnecessary. But it is a fact that there are many, not least younger women, who experience that the situation is not good. It's still an unculture. Paragraph 3 of the Working Environment Act states in paragraph 3 under the chapter on the psychosocial working environment: «Workers shall not be subjected to harassment or other improper behaviour.» Section 13 of the Equality and Discrimination Act states much more clearly: ‘ Sexual harassment means any form of unwanted sexual attention which has the purpose or effect of being offensive, frightening, hostile, degrading, humiliating or hurtful.’; Why does the Council of State not want clarification in order to improve the level of unculture still found in parts of Norwegian working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e851	There's no disagreement about what's the legal situation here, that is, what's the law. There is no doubt that under the Work Environment Act sexual harassment is prohibited because harassment is prohibited. So the discussion here is not about this. The discussion is about whether it would be wise or unwise to explicitly add sexual harassment during the general ban on all harassment. Then my argument is that there are many who also experience other harassment. For example, we know that bullying in the workplace is a major problem for many. It doesn't have to have sexual undertones, but it's still devastating to many. You can create an artificial impression that there are some types of harassment that are more important than others. Then I believe that the work against sexual harassment cannot primarily follow the law audit trail – it must be done, as I have described, in the workplaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e858	However, there is a very clear link between the wording of the law and the extent to which the laws provide the basis for dealing with an unculture. The law that we now have, I don't know when came in, but I think it's pretty old. It has proved to be rather weak in the face of the unculture that exists in the workplace. It is a little surprising that the Council of State is not more offensive and will modernise the Working Environment Act at this point, in line with what is stated in the Equality and Discrimination Act, so that it is clear, and that those who are committed to having a clear practice have the right to point out the content of this. What does the Council of State say to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e863	I say that the representative must be careful to do something that I am absolutely sure he does not mean to do, namely to undermine what is actually the law today. We must not help to raise doubts that sexual harassment is clearly, unequivocally – there is no disagreement about it – prohibited under the Working Environment Act. Here there is no void in our law. This means that the only discussion that remains is whether, under the general ban of all forms of harassment, one type of harassment should be explicitly mentioned. I don't think so. I don't think it's a dramatic mistake or anything like that. I just think that would be unwise, because it is better to have a general provision that affects all kinds of harassment. Then I believe that in Norwegian working life there is no doubt that sexual harassment is prohibited. I believe that the campaigns you have with the social partners are what we now have to work with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e870	The heading of the section to which the Council of State refers, § 4-3 of the Working Environment Act, is today: Requirements for the psychosocial work environment. The Central Party proposes that the wording of Section 13 of the Equality and Discrimination Act be incorporated into the Working Environment Act under the prohibition of discrimination, because it is under Section 13 of the Equality and Discrimination Act that the prohibition of harassment is currently in force. We then think it is a very good parallel to say that what is in the Equality and Discrimination Act under the prohibition of harassment is included in the Working Environment Act under the Discrimination Bar. Presenting it as a weakening of the legal basis is completely turning the case upside down.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e875	I do not believe that it would be a weakening of the legal basis. But it's also that it wouldn't represent any change in the legal basis. Sexual harassment is prohibited and will continue to be prohibited. But what I think in the worst case can make someone who hears the debate in doubt, is if you put it as if it's unclear whether sexual harassment is currently prohibited under the Working Environment Act. It's not at all. There's no ambiguity around it. There is no one who would think that sexual harassment is allowed, just because it says “traping” and not “sexual harassment”. So my simple point is that I understand the good intentions of wanting to get this into. However, the law of the Work Environment Act also applies to other types of harassment, of which there is a lot. I don't think it's smart to have a law that requires you to have all the different types of harassment you can face in your working life. I think it's a good idea that the Working Environment Act is a bit general there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e882	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e890	It is strange that the clear and clear wording of the Act on Gender Equality and Discrimination is not included in the Working Environment Act, in order to have formulations which are such that a stronger and easier reference can be made, so that a changed behaviour in the workplace, a settlement with a culture, and a greater involvement of management by reading directly about their responsibilities in the Environmental Protection Act. For this theme, it is demanding, it is comprehensive and it is complex. I would like to refer to the project ‘Sexual harassment at work in the health sector’, carried out in cooperation between the Centre for Gender Equality and the municipalities of Akureyri in Iceland, Eskilstuna in Sweden and Arendal. The aim of the project was to develop a Nordic experience-based network that provided room for methodological development and increased competence and awareness related to the prevention and management of sexual harassment in the health sector in selected municipalities in the Nordic region. The project lasted from 2018 to 2020. Equality centres have found that the definition of sexual harassment is relatively similar in all three countries. This project also revealed that the law in our neighbouring country is more precise and that the responsibility is clearly placed with the employer. That is why we see the need to do something more than what is stated in Section 4 of the Working Environment Act today, where it says: «Worker should not be subjected to harassment or other improper conduct.» We therefore want it to be included in Section 13 of the Working Environment Act and, as I have said, the wording of the Equality and Discrimination Act to be included. So the center part is going to go further here. We want a stronger tilt. We believe that one has to go to work vigorously to end the unculture. We are very pleased with the metoo campaign, which has opened up too many eyes. Many people knew what kind of culture existed in parts of Norwegian work in the past, but there was not enough power to do something about it. We are very grateful to the women and men who contributed to this, so that we got a change, but we have to go further and include the necessary wording in the Work Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e903	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e920	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e927	This is about Prop. 104 L for 2020-2021, on changes in the Swedish Social Security Act for sick pay and care allowance. The main aim of the proposed amendments to the Law on Social Security is to provide better, user-friendly services to citizens, the most efficient use of resources and the least bureaucracy in public administration. Therefore, amendments are proposed to facilitate the efficiency, digitisation and automation of the process in a new procedural solution that the labour and welfare movement is developing. It is proposed to combine the obligation of activity and the obligation to participate in one provision and to clarify the period during which entitlement to sickness benefits may be granted abroad outside the EEA, to limit the right to vote by way of simultaneous entitlement to sickness benefits and redundancy benefits and to abolish the specific rules on sickness benefits in the event of a relapse of occupational injury. The changes in the benefit of child and other related diseases are simplifications designed to make everyday life easier for parents of sick and disabled children. Therefore, it is proposed to repeal the provision that clarifies that you are not entitled to more than 80 pst. supervision of others and simplification of medical certification requirements for care allowance. The Committee shares the right to choose between sickness benefits and redundancy benefits if the conditions for both benefits are met. A minority want to maintain the election as today, while the majority consider it difficult for individuals to decide. What is profitable to choose will depend both on the difference in the level of the two benefits, on the length of time it is assumed that unemployment could last, and on the need for other benefits. In addition, this complicates and prolongs the procedure and complicates automated procedures. Therefore, the majority supports the Government’s proposals for changes as they emerge from Prop. 104 L, on amendments to the Law on Social Security for Sickness Allowances and Care Allowances.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e940	Thank you to the President-in-Office for reviewing the matter. The Workers' Party shares the intention to facilitate better and more user-friendly services. The digitisation of services is a contribution to this for most people. The automation and efficiency of services reduces costs and, hopefully, reduces procedural time. That's good. But it's a "but" with all of this. The case today shows it. Schemes that require discretion disappear, and then someone will come out worse. In the mention of the proposal to remove the possibility of choosing either redundancy benefits or sickness benefits when one is entitled to both schemes, it is difficult to understand what the actual consequences are for those who are ill, but it seems obvious that some people will get worse out than before. The same applies to stays abroad. To remove the possibility of discretion when the sick subject benefits from a stay beyond four weeks in a non-EEA country is a proposal that does not put the patient first. The medical association believes this will have adverse health consequences for patients with disease conditions that are improved in another climate. The Labour Party therefore shares the view of the Labour and Welfare Act, which, in its opinion, states that there is still a need for discretionary judgement. The working party also does not support the change associated with the rule on sickness benefits in the event of a relapse of occupational injury. Automation is good, but it cannot cut off the opportunities for discretion in all cases. Digitalization is good for most people, but not for everyone. Nav's contact center and Nav's office are not good enough today. The opening hours are too short, the phone queue is a patience test, and the keys are many to get to a person who can answer questions at all. Digital self-service solutions are good for most, but they need to be organized in such a way that these solutions are universally designed. It's an area government hasn't exactly hastened in the years they've been running. Solutions that meet all must include the Sami population, as the municipalities of Kautokeino underline. It has to be a matter of course. The Labour Party will not vote in favour of the amendments to Sections 8-9, 8-48 and 8-55.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e957	The Central Party supports Aasrud's assessments in this matter. With regard to digitisation and the obligation to provide guidance, it is important that the Council of State now clearly informs Nav that the obligation to provide guidance is such that there are a number of people who need to meet people in Nav and that the Council of State ensures that it is realised. It is also a matter which comes later from the Committee, so that it is further clarified by proposals from, among others, the Committee. The centre party. With regard to Norway’s obligations under the EEA Agreement, it is comprehensive in the understanding and practice of the Law on Social Security. And when people who are entitled to benefits under the Law on People's Rights are living outside the Nordic countries, it can create a resource-intensive follow-up to ensure fair treatment of individuals in line with the conditions of those who live in the Nordic countries. The centre party and SV are surprised that the government continues to use the legal formula ‘staying in Norway or abroad’, when we know the consequences of the Nav/Vocational scandal, where just no legal information that Norway is not Norway, but generally all EEA countries in the sense of the Swedish Social Security Act. This text of the law naturally creates the wrong sense of reality for those who do not go thoroughly into the preliminary work of the law. In particular, this applies to the new Section 9-4 of the Act, where the title is ‘Residence in Norway or abroad’, and where it is followed up: ‘It is a condition for entitlement to benefits under this Chapter that the member is present in Norway.’ The fact that it is in Norway is not Norway, it is the EEA region, and I hope the Council of State can clarify why one continues with that concept when we know of the problems that have been in the past, precisely on the basis of such legal wording.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e973	Several aspects of digitisation in this matter are good and are supported by SV. I also want to take advantage of the opportunity to boast of Nav when it comes to simplifying and digitising the parental death claim. They have done a very good job there, and I am looking forward to the process of sick money and care money being just as easy and good. There are some things in this case we are now dealing with, in which SV is disagreeable, on the same line as the Workers' Party. The representative of Aasrud has already done well for that, so I'm not going to use my speaking time on it. What I would like to address is the question of why the government is not using this opportunity to clarify and simplify the legal text itself, so that what is meant by the rest of the world is better understood, and what is meant by Norway. Because it's outside the EEA that's meant to be abroad, isn't it? I have just applied for parental leave. In this application procedure, I had to check whether I had planned to stay in Norway or abroad for the whole or part of the parental leave period. Here I must point out that it is not easy for everyone to imagine that what they are wondering about here is in or outside the EEA. My objective impression after that application process is that I have to tell Nav if I have been thinking about a holiday trip to Denmark during the parental leave period. This case here should be the opportunity to simplify this in the legal text itself and also to ensure that it is clarified in Nav's new and simplified digitized search systems. It shouldn't be a big deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e986	The proposal under consideration today deals with changes in the provisions of the Swedish Law on Sickness Allowances and Care Allowances. The amendments intend to support the simplification and modernisation work in Nav. Several changes related to sick pay will help to streamline, digitise and automate the procedure in a new procedural solution planned for this year. More effective treatment also benefits users. The proposal to bring together the requirements for activity and participation of persons receiving sick pay, in one provision, in the Social Security Act § 8-8, will improve the coherence of the legislation and clarify what is expected of the sick person. The government also proposes to clarify the period during which sickness benefits may be granted for stays abroad outside the EEA in Section 8-9 of the Swedish Social Security Act. Today, sickness benefits are granted for a ‘limited period’ during residence abroad. In practice, a stay abroad of four weeks is considered to be a ‘limited period’. By clarifying in the legal text that the period during which entitlement to sickness benefits is granted abroad is limited to four weeks during a 12-month period, it becomes predictable what one can expect consent to. The importance of predictability, non-discrimination and simplified procedure means that a limit is imposed. In addition, we propose to amend the legal text in the same provision to indicate that the user must have clarified with the employer and the health care provider that stays abroad will not prevent the planned activity and treatment. The proposal to limit the right to vote through the simultaneous entitlement to sickness benefits or redundancy benefits is also a simplification which will result in considerable administrative savings. It will also be more predictable for the individual what he/she will be paid in benefits. Limited eligibility will only apply if the health insurance basis is at least 2 G. For the vast majority of people with a sick pay base of 2G or more, sick pay will pay more than the AAP. The government therefore proposes to amend the law on social security §§8-48 and §11-27. It is also proposed to remove the special rule on sickness benefits for occupational injuries which have been disadvantaged by occupational injury benefits in the event of a relapse of occupational injury, in paragraphs 8 to 55 of the Swedish Social Security Act. The proposals relating to care allowance aim to contribute to making everyday life easier for parents of sick and disabled children. It is in line with the goal of the government's equilateral reform. It is proposed to repeal the provision of the second paragraph of § 9-11 of the People's Security Act, which specifies that you do not have the right to care by more than 80 pst. supervision of others. This provision is misleading since the need for rest and preparedness can be taken into account from 1 July 2019. The government also promotes two proposals to simplify documentation requirements related to care allowance. Firstly, it is proposed to repeal the requirement of the National Social Security Act § 9-16 that a medical declaration must come from a specialist health care institution. It is considered sufficient that the medical statement comes from a specialist healthcare doctor. It is also proposed to abolish the requirement for a new application and an extended medical certificate after eight weeks for care allowance. Overall, this will contribute to red tape for the benefit of users. I am pleased that the majority of the committee supports the proposals in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1009	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1014	The treatment travel system abroad is good for many patients, and many have been in Montenegro and Turkey for such stays. Now, the rules are that if you're going to Montenegro and Turkey, it's not possible to be there for more than four weeks, even though your doctor would think that a stay that could last any longer would have been good for you. If you have the same stay in an EEA country, it will be possible to extend the stay. Does the Council of State think it is to put the patient first if the offer given in Montenegro and Turkey is more appropriate for the individual to receive such a treatment, issued by a doctor and treated by Health Regulations?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1019	As I said, I believe that having a clear and simple limit to dealing with gives you equal treatment and predictability. So it is today that sickness benefits are provided according to the second paragraph of Section 8-9 when a member is admitted to a health institution for Norwegian public account, i.e. when the state finances. It also means that health benefits should be paid in the case of stay abroad on behalf of the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1026	The government's proposal for Section 9-4 reads «residence in Norway or abroad». And on the other hand, ‘It is a condition for entitlement to benefits under this Chapter that the member is present in Norway.’ In the government's comments on the individual provisions of the bill, the following is precisely the subject of sections 9 to 4: ‘For persons covered by the Social Security Regulation, no. 883/2004 and No 883/2004 987/2009 [[EF]] [[EF]] [[EEA citizens, stateless persons and refugees residing in EEA countries, and their family members]] My question is: why has the government not cleaned up this, so that Norway is Norway and the EEA is the EEA directly in the legal text, in order to have normal safe public information?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1042	That's a good and important question. The answer to that is that we have put down, precisely in the wake of the Nav case, a legislative committee to look at how the EEA provisions are implemented in all relevant legislative paragraphs in our area. We have then chosen not to change this in a single provision, but, as it emerges clearly, and as other speakers have also pointed out, this means that Norway in this sense is Norway and the EEA territory, as the representative also points out quite correctly. In other words, this applies to stays in non-EEA countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1047	Why do you have to answer questions about staying abroad or in Norway when applying for custody of Nav? Is there any other rule for parental leave, or is it expected that Norway on this issue should be understood as the EU/EEA area and that the rest of the world should be understood as outside the EU/EEA area? Should each parent seeker automatically understand for himself?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1052	I almost have to refer to what I said to the representative Lundtigen, and it is that in the wake of the social security issue, the Nav case, we have set up a legislative committee to look at how this is being practised for all legislation where there are EEA legal provisions relating to it. This will mean, of course, that the ambition is to clarify where the legislation applies to Norway and EEA countries. And then there are some benefits that are not covered by the EEA Agreement, which are outside the scope of EEA legislation. So to the detailed question to the representative: I have to admit that on the standing side I am not quite able to answer exactly this specific question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1059	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1078	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1085	I can almost start as my colleague Tor André Johnsen would start: This is a real joy – at least for those who work at the control centre of the Sun and who are responsible for the en route service at Stavanger Control Center. I would like to thank the Committee for its work on the matter. It is a unanimous committee that now agrees on the proposal for a decision. It is about ensuring that the en route service at the control station of the Sun remains there. I also want to say that there has been a huge commitment locally. The rapporteur in the municipality of Sola, Tom Henning Slethei, and several other local politicians in the region have been very active to ensure that the en route service is maintained at the control station. The Committee would point out that in the report prepared by Avinor Flyschückung, one of the proposals was to close the en route service at Stavanger Control Centre, which is currently at Stavanger Sola Airport and is being moved and co-located with the control station located in the smoke. I would also like to refer to the letter from Industry Energy to the Minister of Justice and Defence of 4 February 2021, where they said that a transfer of the control centre from the Sola to the East would adversely affect both helicopter safety and the preparedness of the continental shelf. Daily helicopter traffic will not be affected immediately, but over time, the proximity of air traffic controllers to the offshore helicopter environment and their competence in offshore activity will be clouded. There are some of the important signals that have come about this with readiness, and I also perceive that the committee has been very clear: readiness is so important that therefore we do not want Avinor to change it, move that service and join it with the Smoke Control Station. I am very pleased that the Stortinget gives such clear and clear marshalls to the government and the Council of State. I also feel that the government council and the government parties agree that this is the way it should be. That's good. This is one of the things you don't often do from Stortinget, because it's after all a company, but this with readiness means so much to the Stortinget, for all the parties in this room, so you send a clear message to Avinor that you don't lie down.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1100	This case has been extremely attentive around. The Labour Party shares the enthusiasm of the Advance Party. However, attention has probably been both regional and national. In my network, there have been calls from local, regional and national politicians, from trade unions both locally and nationally, from the press and, above all, from actors in the response environment. The working party was involved early in the case – although we are not co-sponsored – not because of the location itself, but because of warnings from important actors, who strongly advise not to split the joint presence of the Avinor Air Safety Control Station on the Sun and the Main Rescue Center. This is an emergency question, and many fear that the preparedness for helicopter traffic on a Norwegian pedestal will be threatened. When we added that the air traffic controllers at Stavanger Control Center have a competence to assist the Main Rescue Center of the Sun in the event of major incidents and disasters, we realized that this was something far more than a location discussion. Early reference was made to the tragic clay crag in Gjerdrum and the wreck of the ‘Viking Sky’ cruise ship, when these were lifted as recent examples of this cooperation. What makes this cooperation so important? Air traffic controllers who run helicopter traffic in South Norway and on the base have experience in flights that go very low, and they can and practice conducting complicated low altitude flight operations. Planes go a great deal over storms and fog. Employees at the checkpoint in the smoke are very competent, but they lack experience in operations like those I just outlined. Helicopters are then, as I said, forced to fly at a low altitude, whether it is sunshine, rain or fog. Aeroplanes operate at higher altitudes, and these things make the Main Rescue Center need low-flight competence and complex operations on its side when they need helicopter assistance, whether in evacuation, search or other operations. That the economy of Avinor under this pandemic is very poor, cannot be used to weaken preparedness. The working party probably believes a lot about the government's overall ownership management and questions it, but we don't have the habit of instructing the government in the ownership of state owned companies. But here it was necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1111	For the right, it is important in both this and other matters that the balance between responsibility and autonomy and ownership of the board be maintained. There are some important principles here that we have great respect for. When the Right finally has the country to support the proposal and the unanimous vote of the Committee on the matter, it is mostly about the overall responsibility of the Storting for the country's security and preparedness and not about the economic aspect of the case. Now we don't know what the Avinor government would have landed on in this case, but in our digital age, with a digital threat picture and hybrid threats, we don't think it's a good idea to increase vulnerability by putting all the eggs in one basket. If there is an outcome, it should be a backup. Of course, preserving the operational environment in the Stavanger area is also an important element for us in the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1120	First of all, I must thank you for your good cooperation on this proposal for a representative, such as Mr Nävra, Mr Faret Sakarisassen, Mr Pollestad and I have promoted the stoppage of plans to move the control centre at the Sola. It is a happy day when a joint transport committee joins us and promotes this proposal, where we ask the government to make it clear to Avinor that a breach with the co-location of the Main Rescue Center and the control centre of the Sola cannot be accepted, and that the transfer of control centre and air traffic management to the Smoke must not happen. This is a day when reason seems to have won. We have also supported and demonstrated that the Trade Union Industry Energy has expressed a negative opinion on these plans, and that concern has been that we have made it clear that it was necessary to promote this proposal. Today it's really just a big smile, and then I think I thank everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1129	Those outside the Chamber who are at all following this debate do well to ask why everyone should take the floor and agree on a matter. But since we don't get a regular May 17 celebration this year, it's kind of nice to be able to repeat each other a little in this case. Also SV is very pleased that this case, which we took the initiative early on, has now received a unanimous outcome, a definitive refusal to drop the en route service at Stavanger Control Center, which is currently at Stavanger Airport Sola, and that it should not be moved to my county, Buskerud, to the Smoke. Now the smoke has come outside my county, so there was a little glitch. The smoke has now entered the old Akershu County. This was one of the alternatives in the report developed by Avinor Flyschückung. It got very strong resistance, we noticed it quickly, both locally and in so far also in the trade union community in Norway. It was not difficult to see that there were mainly economic considerations behind the alternative in the investigation. It's so good to see that all the parties are now involved in this and stress that security now has to count the most. It is from the viewpoint of many professionals that the joint location of the Main Rescue Centre and the en route service at the control station is the second best option for safety and preparedness. The representative of Hoksrud quoted an extract from the letter from Industry Energy to the Minister of Justice and Defence in February this year, and there were quite strong words against the proposal that was before him. It's obvious – everyone knows – that at the Sun is one of the world's strongest trade unions for offshore helicopter safety. Here are all the helicopter companies -- they're there. The oil companies are there. The main rescue centre is located – and the 330-square, the control centre and this simulation centre, as it is called. Everything's there. It was really strange that the option of moving the controllers of the control centre was at all launched. It's almost a little bit amazing. So it's great to see that an overall committee now clearly states that it's important that air traffic controllers have a closeness to the operational helicopter environment, and are involved in a joint proposal for a decision. Finally, SV is probably a little bit different from all of the others here. They agree on the matter, but they take their mandatory reservations, as they should and should, that the government should not interfere specifically in the affairs of maritime companies. It's said here all the time. Well, SV does not have exactly an allergy to it. What else is the point of a state-owned company, if we're not going to run a certain active ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1146	This is a debate the Minister for Defence has also brought with him. I think he's impressed by the mood of the party that's just about to mark the transport committee. So I'm going to say, let there be no doubt that when the Storting has made the decision that's already in place will be made now, I'm going to follow it in an appropriate way against Avinor. This is a matter that I have said before, also in Stortinget. The representative Roy Steffensen took this up, and in my answer to Steffensen, I put a lot of emphasis on the security and preparedness. I actually found Arne Nävra summarizing the overall environment that is in Stavanger/Sola today, which provides a cure for this. Then I still want to say that I disagree with the representative Arne Nävra in making it easy, and I thought it was safe to right also the representative Øystein Langholm Hansen just said that simple decisions should not be a habit, because we do, and I thought the Avinor model is a pretty good model. It has worked well for Norwegian aviation, and at least I want to take care of that model. We're making some demands on Avinor. If this had been a regular event in Stortinget, I thought it would have been more demanding, but fortunately, the Stortinget has shown respect for that model, and then it is all the more important that we follow up in a good way when the Stortinget takes the kind of decision that already indicates that it will now happen. So I'm going to follow up on this in a proper way all the time after the Storting has made its decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1157	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1164	I was injured to say that «Viking Sky» was lost. Fortunately, it didn't, so I'd like to fix it. The answer given by the State Council to the Committee is as follows: ‘In the context of these appropriations’ — reference is then made to the appropriations related to the pandemic — ‘Avinor has been established to implement measures to reduce the company’s deficit and to facilitate efficient operation, proper investments and long-term profitability’. Then I wonder why the Council of State refers to this in a case that has nothing to do with the pandemic initially, but it allows when a person receives a grant in connection with the pandemic, he should save money. Can the Council of State explain this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1176	For the government it has been important to give a significant amount to Avinor just so that the pandemic would not stop the investments that Avinor was making. One example is Tromsø Airport, which had a significant need for investment, and we wanted them not to stop – Kristiansund Airport the same. It's probably that to us it's been important, despite the pandemic, which may have been a little bit longer than what we saw in March 2020, that not in a way the regular lead for Avinor would be there. One of the reasons Avinor is asking them to take care of their resources in the best possible way. I just want to say that there is a part of the community, both the extra resources to ensure that investment in Avinor can go further, and that there is always a steady demand for Avinor to use its resources in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1190	Thanks for the answer. I wonder a little when the Council of State answers as he does: when one now grants large sums of money also to private companies, the government will not demand that one do not charge profits to the shareholders, etc. – there are a lot of things that have been pointed out in Stortinget, but the government has refused to take in. Isn't it a little special that in the case of a state-owned enterprise, the government uses grants, appropriations, in the context of the pandemic as a claim and points out that a deficit should be reduced? Otherwise, the Workers' Party fully agrees that the Avinor model is a good model.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1199	That's a little bit of the same requirement, I think, for both the private and the kind of enterprise that Avinor is. They've got funds because of the pandemic. But I also thought there was a responsibility on both the private and the Avinor, and I thought Avinor had found a good solution. It hasn't been easy for Avinor. They've had quite a lot of layoffs. But I also think it's right when you don't have the activity that's natural. Had we had an aviation agency, which we had before, I don't think we would have had the kind of permits we've seen now. Then, of course, there is something demanding, but it also shows that one sticks to that kind of conversion. Maybe that's what's the success of the Avinor model, that one's got a company that might change into a new era. They are at the forefront of the development of electric aircraft – where we see they have taken initiatives. So I think the success of Avinor is that it's a company that also wants to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1204	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1223	The Ministry of Defence has in Prop. 91 L for 2020-2021 proposed a new temporary law on the management of defence personnel to address the consequences of covid-19. The purpose of the law is to ensure that the defence can maintain operational capability, preparedness and strength production through the covid-19 pandemic. Provisional Law 29 April 2020 No 36 on the management of defence personnel to remedy the consequences of covid-19 was suspended on 1 February this year. The government states that, on the basis of the current infection situation, there is still a need for a law to ensure that the defence can maintain operational capability, preparedness and strength production through this pandemic. The legislative proposal implies the continuation of the rules laid down in the provisional law of 29 April 2020 No. 36 in a new temporary law. The bill provides the defence with a limited jurisdiction over civil servants where this is strictly necessary for the purposes of the law. The proposal further confers on the defence the power to take strictly necessary measures, both within and outside the working hours, against military personnel, civil servants in the field of service and civil servants in order to limit the spread of infection. The law applies on Norwegian territory and on Norwegian ships and aircraft. The law applies only to the defence personnel and does not authorize action against persons outside the defence. Following the proposal, the Act shall enter into force immediately and shall apply until 1 September of this year. However, the majority of the Committee has decided to extend the term of the law until 10 November in order to further increase the predictability of the defence under the pandemic. The law has a limited duration because it is linked to the covid-19 pandemic and the challenges with it. It is unclear how long these measures will be necessary. If the law is to be extended beyond this, a new legislative decision is required as known. The defence's main mission is unchanged in the situation we're in. The defence shall continue to defend Norway and protect Norway’s freedom, sovereignty and independence. It is essential that this ability be maintained as far as possible, including through a pandemic. Therefore, a new, temporary law on the management of defence personnel is needed under the pandemic. Finally, I would like to stress that the limited right of appeal to the law is intended to be a tighter derogation that can only be used where other and less invasive measures have been tried. Changes in the duties and responsibilities of civil servants shall, as a clear rule, be based on volunteering between the employer and the employee. The high threshold for implementing measures under the law will ensure that the measures will be sound and proportionate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1242	This is not the first time this matter has been raised by Stortinget. The temporary law on the management of defence personnel was first rushed through the Storting at the beginning of the pandemic, and then the government stumbled into the Stortinget and wanted an extension of the law on short notice last fall. Fortunately, this time the government has put in place a proper process before the law came to the Stortinget. SV would stress that even in a critical situation, the government has to decide that the parties involved are told. It's absolutely necessary, and it's good that the government has done it this time. I just wish that the government had also listened to all those who were critical of how one has practiced this law. Trust and mutual understanding between the social partners has been a key to managing the pandemic in Norway. That trust must be managed well, especially when the pandemic has gone from being an acute crisis to a long-term crisis. The law we are here to discuss today is very far-reaching and lays strong leadership for the everyday life of civil society in the Defence. The signal from several employee organisations has been that one through the pandemic has been able to find good solutions on a voluntary basis. It's worth noting that we've been through months without such a law. The sector feedback has been that one has just been able to find good solutions. Unfortunately – and this can all be read in the recordings of this law – once again saw that the dialogue with employee organisations has sometimes been very poor when the law was in use in winter. It goes on chords with the clear instructions that were recorded when the case was being processed last. SV will, as before, go against this law, and we also encourage other parties that are concerned with maintaining trust between the social partners to do the same. In a crisis, we need to build trust and cooperation, not tear it down.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1257	I just want to thank the Stortinget and the committee for the work on the bill. Yes, we are dependent on the bill because there is still a great deal of unforeseeable about the pandemic and the functioning of the defence. The defence shall be operationally priority number one. But what is predictable is actually the good relationship between the employee organisations and the defense. There has been virtually no need for the law, but we do not yet know what is happening, and therefore we have asked to have that opportunity. However, in general, everyone in the sector has been sedentary and flexible and flexible in order to take the defence through a very difficult pandemic, where they are to fight pandemics and have support for civil society, but also to be operationally number one. So in general, this is going very well, and I am very grateful that we have now received a law that extends. Then when we also take protective measures both in June and August, and that is also when we have pressed it – and can be hit if the pandemic complicates it more for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1266	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1285	This week the government will once again sunk in the glory of the veterans and talk in large words about their courage and sacrifice. I am not surprised if the government will then repeat the self-confidence that the so-called cross-ministerial and cross-sectoral veterinary work has been extended from six to seven of the government departments. So the question is, what are these seven departments actually doing to improve the inadequate exercise of the vets' rights today? Our concerns were that the government has gone from action plans and the follow-up plan for veterans, which contained more than 100 concrete measures, to a vet report which in several important areas hardly contains a single concrete measure, and not least that when the Storting takes action to correct the injustice, yes, it is too slow to implement the government. Now that we see today that only two out of seven state councils are making, it doesn't make us less concerned. We understand, of course, that the health minister has busy days, but it is a pity that he cannot answer questions about the health of the veterans today, and we lack an explanation as to why the other four departments could not ask. For a long time changing governments and shifting numbers of large numbers have failed too many of the veterans who have sacrificed the most – those who have come home with mental damage, those who have needed, and also had demands for, replacement, follow-up and specialised health care, but who have instead been met with the state's iron fist. Last year, I believe that some of the veterans who have failed have a new hope. In fact, with the support of veterans, veterans' associations and the trade union movement in Defence, Red was given an impact on the Storting for important changes in favour of the veterans. With the veterans in their backs, we have given the government a clear marshal to make changes to the rules and to change the practice of the law to ensure legal compensation for injured veterans. One of the proposals we got through, which has created the greatest hope and expectations among those who have felt the most failing, is the proposal that the government must ensure that veterans who have received a refusal of compensation that might conflict with the current law may demand to have their case re-examined. But then we're worried when the government doesn't say anything about when they're going to follow up this very important decision on big business. Before I go into laws, decisions, numbers and documents, I want to say a little bit about what this is really about. For some it may have been a surprise that just Red, the party on the Stortinget that has consistently opposed the risk of Norwegian soldiers' lives and the use of Norwegian defence resources on the U.S. Wars, has such a commitment to the veterans. Our policy, however, is clear: we are against the war of aggression. We are against warriors who almost always create more problems than they solve, and who create more victims, both civil and military, than they promise. But when the state sends soldiers into war, the state has the responsibility to take care of those who come back hurt, and there is red crystal clear. The striking thing is how changing governments and changing numbers of large-scales happily distribute the citizens' taxes and make Norwegian resources and personnel available to the United States and NATO when the Americans ask us to participate in war under distant skies, while when soldiers we ourselves have sent out into the war come home with ruined health, it must suddenly be saved and spinned on every penny and every ear. The veterans who are already on the counter are pushed even further down by the fact that the state uses almost all the means to deny them compensation for the damage to the war. This is the use and throwing of Norwegian soldiers, and it does not accept Red and very many with us. Today, this hits more than many believe. The Libyan War report says that from 1945 to 2000, an average of 1,000 people participated in international operations. Then NATO decided to change the character of defence salliance to open up offensive warfare all over the globe, and from that year, 2000, the number of Norwegian soldiers in foreign operations increased from 1,000 to 2,500 on average per year. The report notes that the operations have become sharper, and that Norwegian personnel have also participated in several military combat actions, with the consequence that several of them have also lost their lives. However, this is easily ignored when Norwegian governments – of changing colours – consistently deceive with words such as ‘training assignments’, ‘advising’ and ‘humanitarian operations’ for what is, in fact, war and for all practical purposes. The misappropriation is probably convenient for politicians who will not admit that they make Norway a war nation, but it does not help the veterans, who, on the contrary, feel that it is becoming more difficult for them to get recognition for what they have actually been through. At the same time, more people are left to themselves. The report we received from a government-reduced working group concluded that the share that is being rejected has increased from 27 p.m. in the period 2010–2013 to 63 pst. for the period 2014 to April 2018. The strict application of the legislation may be at the extreme of, or even contrary to, the law in force. Luckily, therefore, Red got an impact on its proposals, which are supposed to remedy this particular situation, but the government likes to deliver, and that is why I am now asking for a clear answer to the following: Can the Minister of Defence guarantee that this government will implement the decision of the Storting to ensure the resumption of claims where the refusal may have been contrary to the law in force? When, by what date, can these veterans get their cases resumed? When does the government intend to ensure that those who have been rejected are informed of the possibility of a new treatment? On 15 October last year, the Minister of Defence replied to the concern that the last vet report had no concrete measures for the veterans: ‘We are already in the process of concreteising the communication in clear objectives and actions. This will be a political document underpinning the continued cross-sectoral cooperation of the government for the supervision of personnel before, during and after international operations. In the context of this communication, seven departments have worked with it.» The question is: When will the government publish this document with clear objectives and measures? Then it says in the vet report that you have reduced the processing time in the State pension fund. It is absolutely necessary, because this application process is so burdensome that, unfortunately, it makes some mentally damaged veterans even worse, and it destroys their ability to treat them. Unfortunately, it is not only in the SPK, but also in the Nav, we find the worst bottleneck for many veterans, in terms of the time it takes to detect disability due to psychological stress damage. We hear from SIOPS, among others. on veterans who have been in the Nav system for years. The question, therefore, is what measures, in concrete terms, are being taken, not least in terms of the competence environment for veterans, in order to reduce the number of processing times in Nav. I look forward to hearing the Council's answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1326	First I have to be allowed to say that we are probably not sung in any shine on 8 May. May 8th is the day of liberation and the day of the veto, and it's set to honor the veterans. I don't know if there's any greater difference between pushing the veterans in front of me in a political debate now, as we approach May 8th, than taking part in the official markings May 8th. But May 8 is vet's day, it's vet's day. Then I'm happy with big-time politicians who are impatient about the work I'm doing. I think that's okay, so coming here and explaining what we're doing, what we've got, and what we're going to do, I think is good. The idea that it should be necessary that seven councillors take the trip to the hall at the same time to explain the government's work, we'll probably pick away. It is probably rather uncertain how things are going on. When I explain the government's work now, it well covers the seven different departments that are in this. There is a cross-sectoral work going on in the government to improve its veterinary policy and to improve the functioning of the veterans. We follow up priority areas from the vet report by translating objectives into concrete actions. Health follow-up is an important part of the veterinary intervention. Experts and other health professionals in contact with veterans may now address their regional resource centre on violence, traumatic stress and suicide prevention for advice and guidance. In addition, the health of the defence is available for questions from decision-makers. The RVTS have developed several courses to improve the knowledge of the civil health system about the veterans. The courses are aimed at health professionals, municipal veterinary contacts, decision-makers in municipalities and employees in schools and kindergartens. An online course for public employees has also been developed that comes into contact with veterans and their families. In line with the Communication, regional health regions have been given the task of ensuring that the specialist health service participates in the regional expert networks for response personnel. At present, specialist health services are represented in four of the five networks. The government is following up priority areas in the vet report by evaluating the state veteran contact in Oslo and Akershus. This is a special system Nav has to ensure good follow-up of the veterans. Veterinary liaison shall complement services from the Nav Elverum competence environment. The Government shall also contribute to improving information on relevant support schemes, including Navs. The Government follows up the request decision of the Stortinget for the mapping of priority research areas related to foreign defence personnel. The mapping shall form the basis for an overall strategy in this area. The Ministry of Defence is in the process of working and has set up a research and development veta forum for both military and civil research environments. The government is following up priority areas in the veterinary notification with new measures to address the needs of the veterinary families. The Children's, Youth's and Family's Directorate follows up the desire to strengthen family protection work with the Defence veterans. Buffetat region east is provided with additional funds to raise knowledge of the veterans of the entire family protection service. Proposals to amend the Defence Assistants’ Regulation are now sent to ministerial hearings prior to the general consultation. These changes will allow the transfer of parental leave and sick child days from veterans and active soldiers to resident parents. I set up a working group to review and assess compensation and compensation schemes for veterans. The working group was asked to make concrete proposals for changes. The aim was to improve existing legislation, and a number of proposals from the working group have now been followed up or followed up. On 1 July, two requested amendments to the Defence Act shall enter into force. Firstly, access to justice is introduced in cases of compensation for mental harm suffered after 2010. The amendment follows the recommendation of the working group and implies that decisions could be appealed against to the same denominator as those dealing with older requirements. With it, the government will have a system to improve the legal certainty of veterans and ensure equal treatment of veterans with mental damage regardless of the time of injury. Secondly, the amendment of the legislation entails new rules on limitation. These will make it easier to seek compensation in time and ensure more predictability for the veterans. The rules are based on the workgroup's proposals and follow up requests decisions from the Stortinget last October. Following the existence of the request decision of the Stortinget, a legislative amendment proposal was immediately drawn up and included in the proposal without consultation. This is how we ensured the rapid implementation of the new rules. I'm glad that with this we have two important changes in place that will mean too many damaged veterans. A consultation note on the use of specialist declarations is being drawn up in the Ministry. This follows the proposal of the majority of the working group and the request decision of the Stortinget. During the preparation of the consultation note, we received good input from the veteran organisations SIOPS and NVIO. I have put great emphasis on spending time involving organisations, so that we get the right direction of work. The proposal is sent to the hearing during the spring. The working group proposed to transfer the Secretariat of Complaints on Compensation and Cheapness Compensation from the Ministry of Defence to the State Civil Service. The proposal is included in the report of the Working Group on the initiative of SIOPS. The reasons included: to strengthen the legitimacy of the name among the victims. The proposal has been in consultation and the Secretariat is scheduled to be transferred on 1 January 2022. Those changes to the compensation and compensation schemes relate to future cases. The Government has given priority to those veterans who have not already been dealt with in the case of compensation. The decision has also requested the Government to ensure that the veterans are brought back to court where decisions may be contrary to the law in force. Such resumption was not investigated or recommended by the working group. There have been several open questions related to this request. The Ministry of Defence is in the process of assessing these further. A question is what should be understood by the law in force, i.e. what the established practice shall be measured against. A further question is whether the request can and should be followed up within the existing system. The decisions of the State pension fund may be appealed against today on the subject of a complaint. The decision of the appellant may again be referred to the courts for review. If the veterans consider that they have been mistreated, they may also bring their case to the attention of the defence Ombudsman. Thus, the current system has already been set up to ensure the review of decisions that are contrary to the applicable law. If a new body is to be set up, the device and its mandate must be carefully assessed. Those injured during international operations shall have the compensation they claim. It is important for me to ensure that the solution chosen ensures that access to resumption is real and that possible errors are detected. This investigation will be a priority matter for the Ministry of Defence in the future. It will be essential to involve the veterinary organisations in the work. The government will inform Storting when the request is followed. We have as our main objective to strengthen the veterans' condition before, during and after duty. However, it is worth noting that most veterans are not injured in their international service. Veterans have lower unemployment rates and approximately equivalent — or lower — levels of sickness and disability rates to the rest of the population. Let me therefore stress that the vast majority of veterans come strengthened and with a unique competence home from service in international operations. Their competence must be recognised and exploited in civil society. This aspect is also an important part of government veterinary work. This does not mean that we should not have a full focus on those who are struggling with mental or other injuries after finishing their duties. Helping our veterans who are struggling after the end of service, will always be a high priority of this government. I hope and believe that this review has shown that the vet report was good. Many of the measures we have notified after the notification have arrived, and most of the missing ones are on the move.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1366	The government has sent a big message about the veterans, the vet report, which in no way helped to correct the injustices that many injured veterans have suffered. Therefore, Red took action with our comprehensive proposal to ensure legal compensation. There were hardly any measures beyond that for the veterans to replace the notification as it was available, unlike from 2011, when the vet notification was followed by an action plan of 126 concrete actions, which was again followed up by a follow-up plan in 2014 with 27 new concrete actions. First of all, it was possible to see whether the measures were comprehensive enough, to propose changes or additions if there was something missing, and not least to check whether the measures were being followed up or not. It is more difficult to check whether airy formulations with good intentions are being followed up, such as the vet report of the current government, rather than having concrete objectives and actions. So I want to repeat the question: when will we have published the document showing the clear objectives and measures taken by the government to follow up this work? So we know that the rate of rejection of applications for compensation has been dramatically increased. It may be due to an unlawful practice of the legislation. In that case, the Government must follow the decision of the Grand Duchy to ensure that the veterans are entitled to resumption, where refusal of compensation may have been unlawful. It's about people who have been sent out to war by the state, who are left with a damaged mental health, and who then get the additional strain it is to be denied legal compensation and not believed either. If the government cared as much about them as they do about getting reduced payments of damages, it might have been in place already today. But if it's very complicated for the Council of State and the government to ensure the resumption of these cases, we should at least expect that after six months at least you know what to do to follow it up, and have decided when it's going to be in place. So I want to ask for an answer to this from the Council of State in the follow-up of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1373	I have black. A large number of the things that concerned the evaluation of substitutes that the sample took up, we've taken in, and it's done. And then we have to look at it more closely with what's current right. And we're working on that. But also the changes we make in the compensation scheme will affect the work. When you have been through a procedure, an appeals procedure and the courts, it may be difficult to say that you have not been informed under the applicable law. I am skeptical about delivering schemes that do not comply with what you promise. We are going to have a review of the compensation scheme in the light of the sample that was, and in the light of the request decision from Stortinget, but we have to do it correctly, and then we have to look at the procedure we have today in respect of the compensation cases. When the proportion of claims that are rejected rises, it may also be because we have had a comprehensive compensation scheme for some years, and in the cases that are obvious, you have been compensated, and then there are some difficult issues again. We need to be sure that we are doing this in the right way, but we also need to be sure that we do not create false hopes in people, who then lose confidence in the compensation system we have. That's why I don't come with any dates now, but, as I said, we've met most of the points we had in our message, and most of the request decisions that the Stortinge came with when dealing with the vet report. And then we have to be absolutely sure that we will also go further in the state of law in terms of the appeals and handling of the claims that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1382	Thank you for the answers so far from the Minister of Defence. I want to use my last post on three things. One is to repeat the question of this communication with clear objectives and actions to be addressed by the Council of State in the Main Room on 15 October. When will we receive the document showing the clear objectives and measures to concreteise the vet report? The second thing I'm wondering about, which I took up in the main post, is whether it's possible to get some guarantee from the Council of State that resumption will come into place during this majority period or not, i.e. the time perspective of the whole thing. Finally, the offer of mentally damaged veterans is also about what is happening or not happening on the research front. We need, among other things: some knowledge and information on mental damage, post-traumatic stress disorder and other conditions, associated with trauma and stress in war, and with delayed health effects on those who have been out in conflict. It is also mentioned in the vet report that the government will focus more systematically on research. Work on it must be started immediately, it must be written in the notice, together with the various departments, veterinary bodies, etc. I'd like to finish by asking what is the status and progress of this work, i.e. when it comes to research into what's happening in terms of mental damage. Is there a mandate for the group working on this, and in that case where can we find that mandate?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1395	In my article I explained this. The wishes of the veteran organisations have been to ensure research in the defence sector, but also to ensure civil research in this respect. Then we've reduced a group to look at that part, so we're sure that we get all the knowledge we need about, among other things. post-traumatic stress. We know a lot in the defence sector, but it's just as important to connect with the civil research communities. The desire of the veteran organizations has been that we have an opening that enables us to use all the good environments we have on this research. That work has been formalised, and research programmes are now being developed to take account of the interests and wishes of the veterinary organisations. I still believe that the statement I have made today shows that we have taken seriously all the measures we have been working with after the notification, but also the request decisions from Stortinget – so seriously that we are clear that some of them may be a little complicated to get in place. The current concept and the current law are suspended. We have to be absolutely sure that we land it right, so that those who are going to go after their process get it within what is law and regulation for us. Both the research and the fact that we take the families seriously as we take the vet policy further, I think it's a very good move, and then we're going to come up with the answers that are being asked. The representative of Moxnes asks what kind of document it comes into – well, it should be in a political document. One political document is the regulatory changes we are making that will apply in the future. Other political documents are if we have to make changes to the law. The third form of political document is if there is a strategy for research. We have now added the instructions to the Department so that we can connect both the defence and civil research institutions to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1404	The debate on substance is then closed. Eight is going to be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1422	Cross-border rail transport is important. The Oslo-Narvik connection through Sweden is essential for the carriage of goods by road between South Norway and North Norway. The Meråkerbahn is important for Mid Norway and Mid Sweden. This section of the track has seen a strong increase in passenger traffic, while freight trains, among other things, have seen a significant increase in passenger traffic. transports large quantities of timber and forest products. Kongsvingerbanen and Østfoldbanen are important for both passenger and freight transport, while linking the Oslo region with Stockholm and Gothenburg. The reason for this interpellation is that the European Commission has designated 2021 as the year of the railway. The aim is to increase the proportion of people and goods transported by rail. This is in line with the objectives of the EU green growth strategy, the Green Deal, to which Norway has joined. In addition to pointing to rail as a sustainable mode of transport, the objectives of the railway year include raising awareness of the trans-border European dimensions of rail transport and increasing its contribution to the EU economy, industry and society. However, there are several obstacles that need to be covered, but many opportunities are opening up that Norway too can take part in if we manage to provide the technical and financial obstacles that have appeared to be insurmountable for many decades. One of the obstacles encountered is that two countries do not have the same interest in expanding a route that is most beneficial to the neighbouring country. On the Oslo – Gothenburg train link with a stretch between Halden and Trollhättan in Sweden, which falls outside both the intercity of Norway and the corresponding extension between Gothenburg and Trollhättan, there is 13 miles where the Swedish are responsible for 10 miles and Norway for 3 miles, and we must acknowledge that we have a much greater interest in expanding this route than the Swedish. We see something similar between Sweden and Denmark. The Øresund connection has exploded capacity, and the Swedes want to build a new connection between Helsingborg and Helsingør, but it is not welcomed by the Danes. The Fehmarn Belt connection between Denmark and Germany has not been without problems either. Another challenge is that all countries face major challenges in their own rail network. Financing and development of an intercity system in the East is likely to be the top priority in future NTPs. Therefore, it is important to find another way to finance the projects. Many investigations have been carried out for a long time on the need and possibilities for improving cross-border rail links between Norway and Sweden. I think both countries realize that it is going to be difficult to finance these routes with ordinary government appropriations, and there have been several analyses where you look at the possibility of financing them in a different way. Oslo–Stockholm 2.55 can be the first step on the road in this context. Starting an opportunity study to clarify current trajectory choices and funding models for the Oslo-Stockholm route, as a method, can also be used on the Oslo-Göteborg route. A third challenge is differences in technical solutions across Europe — not only between countries but also internally in some countries. Differences in track width and power supply are two examples of this. Sweden and Denmark have different power supplies, so that only trains that can handle both systems can be used on the rail link across Øresund. Finns have a different track width than the rest of the Nordic region. In Spain, high-speed trains have normal tracks, while other trains have wide tracks. The need for standardisation is great across Europe. The most important thing is what is related to security and to which ERTMS is an example. The Nordic Governments launched the Nordic triangle as early as 1996 as part of the trans-European transport network, TEN-T, an input into the planning and development of an efficient, sustainable and competitive road and rail transport system between Oslo and Copenhagen and Stockholm. So the Oslo–Gothenburg and Oslo–Stockholm connections are not just about interaction between our two countries, but they represent two of the legs in the Nordic triangle and have had a special place in the EU railway operation and have had it for decades. The reason why the EU established the TEN-T scheme was that the EU, together with the national authorities, should contribute to the development of a good and coherent cross-border transport system. It was proposed that the development should be financed from both EU and national funds. With regard to the revision by the EU of the guidelines for the Trans-European Transport Network in 2009, the Nordic governments once again gave feedback that the Nordic triangle was the main cross-border infrastructure project in the Nordic region in the EU context. The European Railway Year is also on the agenda of the Nordic Council. The Nordic Prime Ministers launched a vision in 2019 that the Nordic region would become the most sustainable and integrated region in the world. The new vision has three priority areas: a green Nordic region, a competitive Nordic region and a socially sustainable Nordic region. The Nordic Co-operation Ministers want concrete instruments to realise this vision. An environmentally friendly and competitive cross-border rail system will undoubtedly be a very important joint contribution to the reduction of climate emissions under the Paris Agreement and national targets of at least 50 pst. reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. A coordinated approach between Norway and Sweden for the improvement and development of cross-border rail links is very important. This is important for us to come into a position where the EU can contribute with additional funding. The plan for the development of Femern Bælt between Denmark and Germany is a good example in this respect. A swallow does no summer, and a railway year does not itself lead to the development of new projects. But I would like to remind you that, as well as pointing to rail as a sustainable mode of transport, the objectives of the railway year include raising awareness of the trans-border European dimensions of rail transport and increasing its contribution to the EU economy, industry and society. These are the elements I think will be right for us too. A project like Oslo–Stockholm 2.55 is not just about travelling time itself. Shorter travel time contributes to growth in the inter-residential labour markets. An investigation carried out by the Oslo- Stockholm region focused in particular on the ring effects. A similar investigation was initiated by local and regional authorities on the Oslo-Göteborg-Malmø-Copenhagen routes. With a travel time of less than 3 hours on the Oslo-Copenhagen section, a Scandinavian region will be linked with 8 million inhabitants. The positive ringing effects of this would be formidable. An important Norwegian contribution in relation to the EU rail year will be to launch a more targeted analysis of how the long-distance cross-border routes between Norway and Sweden can be realised. This is also supported by the EU in the TEN-T context. It is important to have a realistic ambition and to contribute to the analysis and clarification of alternative funding. Furthermore, it is not least important to show the positive effect that can be achieved in the interaction between the existing rail system. Here you can create a win-win situation for national and international rail systems, to the great benefit of both population and business throughout the country. Only the realisation of the Fehmarn Belt link will open up new opportunities for rail freight transport between Norway and the continent. My challenge to the Council of State is therefore: How does the Council of State think that the EU's clear commitment to rail can benefit Norway, and what place will cross-border rail have in Norwegian railway policy in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1458	I would like to start by thanking the inter-pellant for bringing this important debate into the national assembly of the railway year of the European Union. Norway shares the EU's high rail ambitions. In order to achieve our climate and environmental objectives, we are dependent on following the rest of Europe in the development of new technological solutions, innovation and legislation in the field of transport. To participate, we need to get into the processes in order to take care of our interests at an early stage. I believe that the EEA Agreement provides us with a good basis for this, and the Ministry of Transport, the Directorate of Railways, the State Railway Authority, the Bane NOR and other actors in the railway sector are therefore represented in several international cooperation and initiatives. Much of this work is done through the EU as part of the green Green Deal, and the railway is a very central part of the solution in the field of transport. Let me go a little deeper into some cooperation and initiatives where Norway is closely linked to the European Union and the railways, and what importance it can have for the integration of Norwegian and European railways. Interpellant called TEN-T, the trans-European transport network. It is the backbone of the European transport system and consists of the main links and connecting points of the EU and EEA transport system. There is now a revision of the guidelines. Norway will make representations to today's guidelines and may propose new ones to take account of Norwegian interests. Norway is also part of ScanMed Rail Freight Corridor. The aim is to break down technical and organisational barriers for cross-border freight trains and to provide pre-planned paths. Now it's going to be working on extending the freight corridor to Narvik to bring with it the Arctic Rail Express train between Oslo and Narvik, which is of great national importance. Norway has joined a ministerial declaration of cooperation with the EU to improve conditions for rail freight in Europe. However, regulatory developments are also taking place and the code of good corridors has recently been evaluated. The Commission has indicated that it will shortly submit proposals which will be capable of strengthening the framework conditions for rail freight. Norway follows this work closely. The State Railway Authority and the State Emergency Commission participate in the work of the EU Railway Agency, ERA, in line with the authorities of the EU Member States. The Railway Authority also meets in the Management Board of the Agency, but without the right to vote. This means that Norwegian authorities participate in regulatory developments in the technical and security field in the same way as their European colleagues. We can therefore already be involved at the development stage in influencing the development of new legislation so that Norwegian interests are taken into account, and so that we can have good processes and involve the industry here at home. Participation in ERA also means that Norwegian authorities are involved in the exchange of good practice and coordination of work on railway safety at European level. We have something to learn from the Europeans, and they have something to learn from us. Together, we create a good foundation for a good safety culture in the railway sector. Norway has also joined the Trans-Europe Express 2.0 initiative as a plan and strategy to link train services in Europe. The aim is to strengthen passenger train links in Europe by establishing coordinated departures and thus reducing travel times on the defined routes. International Rail Passenger Transport is a Ministerial Declaration on the Development of International Carriage of Passengers by Rail. I signed this last year. The authorities of a number of European countries have joined this initiative, which stems from the desire to include passenger train services in the green economy. I also want to say something about research, innovation and new technologies. The EU's institutional partnership for rail research and innovation under Horizon Europe, Europe's Rail Joint Undertaking, is under way. This will be the successor of the Shift2Rail partnership and has been set up in a way that will allow us to align our research efforts more towards the railway sector and the transport customers' needs. The Railway Directorate is one of the 25 candidates in Europe’s Rail and participates fully in the preparatory work. A master plan for research and innovation in the programme is now being developed. This shall be completed by May 2021. The first announcement in the program was outlined in early 2022. If Norway at the Directorate-General for Railways is finally included as a member, it will mean a great deal for innovation and development in the Norwegian railway sector. The ITS Directive and the EU Regulation relate to multimodal travel information services and real-time traffic services: the EU has launched a revision of the Directive and its Regulations. Norway participates in the audit, which is very important for requirements and regulation related to the market. It is important that Norway participates in an early phase of this work in order to influence the development of legislation and services. I have now shown the broad cooperation. Of course, the Ministry of Political Affairs is also involved in very many meetings just to follow up. Both attached to the European Railway Year and naturally in the light of the pandemic, there have been many initiatives and special close cooperation at Nordic level. But I thought that on all these initiatives that we are now part of, there is just a common regulatory framework for the railways in Norway, and we see how important it is. This has been developed through several railway packages, but also when it has our needs and wishes from legislative bodies for more cooperation. Norway has joined the EU’s railway policy through the EEA Agreement and this framework is constantly evolving. The government wants to do this by joining the fourth railway package. I am of the opinion that the main basis for further rail investment in Norway is still to be part of the common European railway policy, which is now referred to as the single European railway area. I have said a lot about the cooperation, I think it shows that we are closing down with it, and that we are doing a great job with it. So the interpellant also takes up the place of the cross-border rail within Norwegian railway policy. I would just like to point to the national transport level, where there is a great deal of commitment on the railways, the ERTMS initiative, where we are in the forefront in Europe, we are at the forefront. There is no doubt that much will be done in this area. I want to say something about exactly what's going on across the border. Interpellanten also records Oslo–Stockholm. I am in dialogue with Swedish authorities around a Swedish-Norwegian feasibility study of the Oslo–Stockholm relationship. Many of the work can be based on what has already been done on the Swedish side, as well as on assessments recently carried out in connection with the development of KVU on the Kongswingerban. The next step will be for Norwegian and Swedish authorities to draw up together a mandate for such a mission. The development of the Meråkerbahn is also important. The electrification of the Meråkerbahn in the first six-year period of the NTP involves a fully electrified train connection between Mid Norway and Mid Sweden with the possibilities it offers to further develop the cross-border passenger and freight services, as there are ambitions on both the Swedish and Norwegian sides. I would also like to point to the Eastfold Railway, the extension that has now taken place with Follobanen and Sandbukta-Moss-Sostad. The projects will have a significant impact on cross-border traffic and will reduce the journey time between Oslo and Gothenburg. And there are naturally enough further plans to develop the railway also south of Moss in the second planning period. Development of Ofotbanen: cooperation between capacity assessments and capacity-enhancing actions on Ofotbanen Narvik-Kiruna can also be established. Here, the Railway Directorate cooperates with the Transport Agency through regular meetings and dialogue. The interpellant also mentions the work being done in the Nordic Council. We also know about the night and night initiatives that have come from there. And I would also like to point out that a considerable amount of work has been done through a study by the Directorate of Railways, which looks at personal contacts from Norway to the rest of the world. The natural follow-up here will be that we will have a framework for a Nordic railway study. What I think is a good initiative, which I'll follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1496	I thank you for your answer. There's a lot that can be said about the railway. There are several aspects of this. One is the big projects we're asking for. The second is the international angle. The third is how we adapt ourselves to everything. We had a meeting with the Norwegian train last Tuesday. What came out was how we lack standardisation. I also think that's an adaptation we can make ourselves. If we're going to order new trains, we have our own standard that makes it almost difficult to get new trains. There, it pointed to three elements. One was power supply, the other was track depth, and the third was platform height. Fortunately, we have the international track gauges, so we have no problem getting trains with the right track gauge, but our current is similar to that of Sweden and Germany, but not Denmark and France. The platform height is very special for Norway and the Benelux countries. We also run local trains that are wider than the standard. In most countries you have two and two seats, here you have three and two. There is a special order we make that helps to increase the cost of ordering new trains. We deserve the European Union to have standards and to follow them. If you want to take the night train from Oslo to Madrid, you have to make sure that there aren't too many locomotive shifts along the way. What is happening in the EU at the moment in standardising is absolutely essential in order to achieve an attractive rail service across Europe, and that is what the EU will address in terms of European rail: getting an understanding of how important it is to have cross-border rail. It has to do with goods, too. We can drive goods from Narvik via Alnabru and out, but we can, once Fehmarn Bælt is finished, drive directly from Narvik to Germany without going into Norway. There are also internal investigations in Sweden about making a non-electrical route, which is shorter, but it should then be fired – I kept saying – with hydrogen. And that's maybe the third thing I want to deal with as it's important to take a decision on internationally: what are we going to bet on by electricity, bio and hydrogen? There must be filling stations or the possibility to run the same trains across Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1509	I believe that in many sectors the EU has done a very good job of standardisation. I think that in the sectors they've done it, it's a real pleasure. I believe that we should develop an even better rail supply, it is absolutely necessary that we participate and actively contribute to it in the EU. Now I spent a lot of time in my previous article describing some of that work. Norway's close. Yes – we’re not an EU member, but we’re part of an EEA agreement, and I think the European Union has been a voice by getting us so close to those kind of cooperatives. Politically, it is also followed up by the possibility of discussing this kind of questioning with our European colleagues closely and closely. In Norway, I thought we could say we were happy across the board. I feel that since 2010, we have turned around a development. We've actually seen the stakes on the railway at a completely different level. Yes – we have some challenges, and we have some work to do, but we have more than triple promises, and that replaced what I experienced with Magnhild Meltvet Kleppa, when she was a councillor, has proved to be positive. But there is no doubt that we have some challenges that we have to put in place within – call it – our rail system, which is located there. Intercity will certainly come back to us when we are going to discuss the national transport plan later in this Chamber in ours. It's a big bet that means a lot to two million people in that part of the country it's in. There is no doubt that there are also now exciting, cross-border lines that I hope we will bet on. I can say that I believe many Swedish authorities have experienced that in the dialogue between Norway and Sweden, Sweden has been the offensive party. They're now getting a signal that we want this too. The sections I named here, Oslo – Gothenburg, Oslo – Stockholm, Narvik, Meråkerbahnen, are sections with the potential that I think there is good reason for us to be active in the field of lifting. Then we have to finish our primary job, but I think it is important that we now look at that kind of solutions, and I think it will be well received. I also found the work that the Nordic Council has done here, pointing to opportunities, among other things. in the case of night trips, is positive, but not least in the case of goods and passenger trips between the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1524	I want to thank the interpellant for raising an incredibly important question. Achieving the objective of moving more transport from road to rail requires research and development, as well as considerable work to correct delays and maintenance, and the EU is preparing a new major railway operation through Horizon Europe, as the Council of States was in the process of moving towards a new rail system. Norway has been part of the European research programmes in many areas, and this is particularly important for the railways. This time it is called Transforming Europe’s Rail System, and that programme will last for six years, i.e. until 2027. Maintenance, construction and operation of tunnels, frost problems and winter operations, as well as our topographical conditions, we need more knowledge and research on. The operational challenges faced by the railway system make Norway suitable in this project for both pilot and research. The new partnership will be a central tool for finding new and good solutions and technologies to develop the European rail system for the benefit of travellers and to contribute to innovation that will enable us to exploit our rail system more effectively than we currently have. In particular, building new infrastructure to increase capacity requires resources. A short time ago, it was uncertain whether Norway was allowed to join this important partnership. I have therefore asked the Minister for Transport in writing and received relatively good feedback that this could be done. But it's essential that we get to join this project, and that we get to join from day one. So I want to get into what's going on with the cross-border railway. Too long has a forgotten troubling team. In 2013, Stortinget adopted electrification of the Tronderbanen and Meråkerbanen. There was an electric train at Storlien that wanted to get to Trondheim, and that wanted to use the Guards as its airport. Trøndelag has a significant cooperation with Jämtland and Härjedalen, and the promises from today’s government – when it became a government change – to the Swedish authorities in 2014 were that this would be further. There was going to be an electrification immediately. This caused the Swedes to rise around, as we say in trundish, and to repair the distance from Storlien to Meråker on the Swedish side, which we call the Great Hell. In 2015, the Swedes were finished, and since then, when we met them, the Swedes have said that they are “disappointed” at today’s government and that they feel cheated. So for many years we have been able to get an important freight link and a continuous passenger train offer from Trondheim to Stockholm, and it could also significantly reduce climate emissions in Trøndelag during all those years. Now this project is part of the NTP that has been presented, but the Swedes do not fully trust that this will be realised, and my message is that now this must happen immediately. Through the so-called railway reform, we have spent billions on reorganization. The costs of development projects have increased, so that the increases in rail costs have been applied to the increased costs. Our railway doesn't just need targets, it must also have state measures. We also need to rectify the delays in maintenance in addition to researching new solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1539	It is very nice that the representative Igstad addresses these questions about cross-border rail, and it is extra nice that there is a right-wing man who does that, a representative of the government parties – very good. But it's probably very at the tame of the reign, now I'll say. We don't quite know what's going on in the autumn, but I have my own clues. I hope they can be recovered, but it is very positive that this is being taken up. I know that the representative Igstad has a beating railway heart, and we have spoken some railroad outside the hall as well. For a railway party as SV, lifting is very important. We are not just a railway party, but we are a Nordic party in terms of both cooperation on the cultural sector, on the transport sector, even on defence. As many people know, it was all in 2018 that SV proposed new KVUs to Stockholm and Gothenburg, and almost on autopilot it was voted down by the government parties. We knew that these were significant distances. We knew there was huge traffic to Stockholm by plane. We already knew then that we could move over large passenger numbers, at least one million people, i.e. passengers, on Oslo–Stockholm, and we could move a lot of goods onto the rail from Gothenburg if we had expanded this route. It is very important, as the representative Igstad pointed out, that this is of great importance to Norway. We know that it might be 1-2 pst. Which goes by rail from our largest port, as we like to call Gothenburg, the rest goes on rubber wheels. So these are incredibly important projects – passengers to Stockholm and goods on the route to Gothenburg. In the current session we have once again promoted the proposal for a KVU for Oslo-Stockholm. The background to this is, of course, the initiative that has come, which has existed for two to three years, with the Oslo-Stockholm project 2.55, as we know, with a corresponding sister party on the Norwegian side. But no, it didn't get a majority from the government parties either, they didn't agree to it. But I am very pleased that the Council of State could announce that he would have an opportunity study. That's very good. We have our sister party in Riksdagen, and they've also taken it up there, and we've in a way had a never-small baton maneuver in that sector. It's very exciting to see how this works. From my side, on behalf of SV at least, I get to sit on the shoulders of any other government council that had to complain about that chair afterwards. We have talked about goods from Gothenburg, which is very important, but it is also an important passenger corridor. If we're even going to talk about a green conversion, we're going to talk about getting a green tourist industry in Norway, we need a green corridor from the continent. I can't get that stressed enough. There is now a great deal of environmental awareness on large parts of the continent. They can of course imagine coming to Norway in a green corridor. Now they have to mostly use airplanes to go on vacation to Norway. It's quite obvious that it takes too long. It's a train exchange, and we don't have night services, etc. We don't even have a common ticketing system. It's almost hopeless in that jungle to find a place to go to find a common ticket. Entour does not have immediate plans to get it there either, so it is Deutsche Bahn who will be rescued there as well. Then it's about funding. Yeah, that's very important. I have probably been of those who have thought about this for a year or two and looked at the closeness of how expensive it is to build the railway. I think we have to take on board that we have to look at other ways of financing railway development, because it doesn't help with all the world's investigations, it doesn't help with research, it doesn't help with ministerial declarations. You can have as many people as you want, but what's going on is building a new railway. It's going to be a lot of money. We want to work, very many parties, including railway parties like SV, to finance many of the ambitious goals we have. Then we have to look at alternative forms of funding for state projects, and I will come back to that in the context of the NTP debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1556	The year 2021 is the railway year in the EU, and I think that is very good and in place. Because we see that throughout Europe, in fact, the number of passengers using the railway has increased sharply in recent years. But there is one thing missing: there are not enough passengers between countries. Norway has failed, and Europe has also failed. That's the way it is today. There are very many national targets that have been implemented, high-speed railways that have been created. Spain, France and several countries have pushed on that wave. If we see the Benelux countries as a whole, they have also been able to take advantage of this with the large transport systems to and from Brussels. It's to London, it's to Paris, it's to Amsterdam and to different places. It has been very good, it has been well received by the citizens, and it is very much used in Europe. In Norway, we have also had such a development. It's gotten bigger. Today, 80 million passengers use the train per year – in a normal year. We're not going to use the statistics from 2020 and 2021, but that's what happened in 2019. But we have a situation where neither the line we have to Stockholm, the one we have to Gothenburg, nor the one we have to Östersund, on Meråkerbanen, is very much used. The one who really gets away is from Narvik, Ofotbanen. About half of the fish fishing in North Norway, going south, transported by rail, by the Ofot Railway, so the tonnage there is really good. Then I can say a lot about the story of the Meråker Railway. What's important, and I have good faith in now, is that the initial allocation is given for electrification of the Meråkerbahn. We know that Bane NOR is about to strengthen the railway, have maintenance on the railway, so that it can withstand the heavy trains – and hopefully the really heavy trains, the freight trains. That's maybe what's the greatest potential of the Meråker Railway, getting a system of goods between Mid-Sweden and Mid-Norway. It hasn't happened in many years. There have been no freight trains on this for several years now. There are doubts about the need, but also about the nature of the track itself. Now it is being put on, and there is good cooperation on both the Norwegian and Swedish sides in order to get a good freight train offer. There are several initiatives now being taken from Europe. I heard the Minister for Transport mention more, to which we also agree, in terms of both ambitions and legislation in view of the fourth railway package – we will probably discuss a lot here in the future – and also in terms of other things, this with security and ERA, and not least the importance of passenger train transport for the green shift. Because that's maybe where there's the greatest need to look at things quite quickly. Then I think we need new infrastructure and new railways and new things, but at the same time we have to make better use of what we already have today, in an even better way, for example. Oslo – Gothenburg – Copenhagen. It doesn't go fast enough with today's train, but it must actually be an offer for those who don't have it just as busy constantly. I had hoped that we had come a little further, and that those initiatives would be taken from the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1571	I have put on a Swedish-Norwegian pin today in honor of the representative Igstad and on the occasion of the case. This, of course, is an important topic. As my predecessor Gunnes said, unfortunately, there is a very bad train connection in general between the countries of Europe. I spoke to Igstad before today, and then the representative told me that he has actually worked on this matter since 1988. Then I think back to my time. I was Russian in 1987, so then I wasn't the old guy, but I remember that already back then I read about the train connections in Europe – or at least within individual countries – that they already had trains that went at 200 km/h, and Japan had plans for trains that could go up to 400 km/h. Clearly, there may have been a great distance between Norway and the rest of the world on this issue, and also between the countries of Europe. For my part, I remember that in the 1980s it was at least popular with interrail. In 1989 I got the joy of driving trains around Europe. It was incredibly exciting and interesting, but it seems as if it's not as popular today as it was then, so it can almost seem as if evolution has gone in the wrong direction. A major challenge several of the representatives have pointed out today is how we are going to finance railway development. I think most people in this room agree that we've really had enough to focus on maybe especially intercity. We are now seeing the realities. The freight package we got into today's NTP – Left, Christian People's Party, Right and Advance Party – would also be a boost for cross-border traffic across the Kongswingerbahn and to Sweden, but unfortunately is not funded. It's very important for the forest industry, it's important for the heavy trains that Gunnes was on, the freight trains. Nothing has happened there. We've got the train tunnel through Oslo, which I really think a total mass has been very concerned about, that it's a hub through the capital. It is not financed, and intercity is not financed. It is understandable, then, that trains out in the rest of the world and the rest of Europe are being down-prioritized, when, unfortunately, we are not even able to finance what is completely elementary and primary in the central eastern region. Then we have the Ofot track, which many people have talked about today. I really hope that in the NTP we can get a boost for it. If we get the freight package and the Ofot Railway, at least we've been cleared up into two border tracks. Then you have the Kongswingerbahnen and Ofotbanen – and at least you have improved the offer on the two tracks. It's exciting, as I told you, to look at alternative solutions. Oslo-Sthlm 2.55 can be a good opportunity for future alternative funding. There are private actors who see that here it is actually a market. Then it might be wise for us politicians to keep us away and actually let the market control this themselves and make sure that a perhaps builds a better customer- and market-driven train offer between Oslo and Stockholm, Copenhagen and Gothenburg, where it may be a big market in particular. Otherwise, I would say that the representative Igstad has very good intentions with the proposal, intentions I think everyone supports. What's a bit of the danger, maybe a little bit of fear, is that it -- not by the representative Igstad, I think, but by the government and perhaps by future governments -- becomes a lot of plans, a lot of talk and a lot of good intentions. Although we might have had Arne Nävra and SV in government, I will dry to claim that in this area there would be little action. I fear that we may quickly have such a debate in four years' time again or in eight years' time, without any particular development of cooperation in Europe. You can hope that it doesn't happen, but it's -- based on history, hard facts, priorities and economic reality -- which, unfortunately, can happen. Otherwise, I would like to thank the Minister for his good briefing, good speeches and also good intentions and thank the representative, Mr Igstad, for bringing forward an important theme, which, of course, concerns the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1590	Railways are important. I would like to thank the representative, Mr Igstad, who is a knowledgeable vessel in many areas, but especially on the railways. There is no doubt that what Igstad is raising, are intentions that can help raise a discussion, both in terms of climate and alternative modes of transport, to completely new heights, if you can do this in a good way. So it's always like there's some challenges to getting into the goal of such big intentions. At the same time, I think it is very important to keep your intentions and keep the goal of doing this. The Council of State has framed a number of cooperations that he has initiated and into which he has been invited – I would assume that both ways are going – in the EU, where one discusses the objectives to be pursued. It's going to be a little bit like you've had standardisation of car parks. We've created systems that make it recognizable when we move to and from Europe. The position of the centre party to the EU is reasonably known. At the same time, we are very concerned that we need to use the arenas that are needed to get good solutions. The Nordic Council was mentioned several times here. There we have discussed and have clear ambitions to create better systems that allow us to see the railways at one time in the Nordic region. Much of this debate has really been about the Nordic countries, with concrete examples. Funding in addition to government appropriations has also been mentioned. When the Center Party evaluated the KVU the last time we had it up for discussion, we were very concerned that we have to try to get solutions that allow us to meet our own needs, and where we have a deviation from our own goals. Although one now discusses both Oslo–Goteborg and Oslo–Stockholm and not least Narvik, Trøndelag and Meråkerbanen, we are concerned with what is at the core. We had and have a high level of ambition in terms of intercity, but the NTP has shown a big deviation and also a lag in getting those ambitions in place. The electrification of the Meråkerbahn is a typical example. It is important, I think, before you go out into Europe and talk about how you want to have it in the future, that we also take action internally in our own kingdom. What has happened when there has been such a hard priority of intercity is strictly that the long distances over many years have been subject to poor planning and not least to a maintenance kit, with which we are struggling. I think it is very important to go in and look at those areas, the long distances – and then it is very important that we are able to put in place good and forward-looking solutions for goods. Both research, master plans, legislation, cooperation, and not least the positiveness you express, and the discussion you have about climate, must lead to our being able to maintain a dialogue on the future objectives. I really hope we do. As the representative Igstad said, the challenge is always: ‘What’s in it for me?’ The individual country will always say, ‘What will we get for this investment?’ It's clear that now we're investing billions of dollars, so the Center Party and I assume, of course, that some of these technical solutions are clear when we cross the border, for example. When we now have an ambition for intercity. Finally, I just want to say that we have significant challenges on our own railway network, and we have to take that on board. We also have significant challenges in the long distances. But also with the positiveness of the NTP, especially on the Bergensbanen, we see that we now have the opportunity in the future to give priority to those routes, which are also routes to enter the European market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1616	I want to thank you for all the good posts. I think it's quick to drown in it that – yes, this government could, but why couldn't the previous government do it, or that government before there? I've been with you since 1988. Then Vestby and other neighbouring municipalities had to go together with the Østfold municipalities, and then we gave money for the investigation on the Oslo – Gothenburg route for trains and roads in two hours. What was achieved was that the road was built. The railroad came to Moss. So that's the way you say it's planned here. A colleague of mine told me that the most important thing is not to plan, but to know where to put them. When we planned Oslo – Gothenburg – Copenhagen, it even registered with stakeholders who were willing to build. It was Chinese investors who were willing to build that line, and who talked about high-speed rail. We are in the happy position that we are not a transit country; we are the beginning. We're really just missing 13 miles of high-standard rail between Halden and Trollhättan – and then we're connected to the entire European railway network, because the rest of it goes by itself because there are others who are responsible for it. But we've said, and that was also the premise when we were running and investigating this with Oslo – Gothenburg, that intercity's extremes are also the starting point for possible high-speed trains or normal tracks. And that's where we're -- and we've been all along -- building out intercity to Halden and then thinking about what we're doing down. And there are more alternatives. That's that part of it, but what's most important in the short term is that we're opening up to cooperate on standards, on legislation and all that we're going to cooperate on, so we're ensuring that we don't elaborate on any internal rules that don't fit anywhere. We're probably ordering extremely expensive trains, because we follow different standards than what you produce. We can't order these trains anywhere – we don't buy shelf goods, we buy special orders – and that could be one of the experiences we should look at. I actually promised the Stortinget not to talk about the EU's fourth railway package, because we're going to do that on 31 May, but it's a part of the whole, of creating a common regulatory framework for the whole of Europe, which allows you to adapt trains to the power management systems and the service systems that we all depend on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1627	The representative, Mr. Igstad, has received many well-informed condolences, both for his knowledge and his commitment to the railway. He said he's been with us since 1988. I don't have that. In 1988, I was a confirmation. That's why it was nice to get the overview and the commitment that the representative Igstad here points to. I think it's been a good debate, and I want to point to some things. The representative of Leirtrø deals with this with research and innovation, and everything indicates that we are involved in this cooperation. It means a lot that the Directorate of Railways is there, just so we should be inside, familiar with the legislation and be involved in the innovation. It's very important. So I can understand that the Swedes were a little “disappointed” in 2015, but the sad thing is that from 2024 on, the Meråkerbahn is electrified. Then we have to exploit the potential that it gives. After hearing the representatives Arne Nävra and Jon Gunnes, I will almost say that Igstad, Gunnes and Nävra are a «railway train unit» in the Transport Committee. Who is God and Jesus and who is the slightly diffuse holy spirit of the three, I shall be a little careful to suggest, but we must be willing to get a common set of rules for standards and luck with it. I also noticed that the representative Johnsen took part in this debate. He may not be the one who has pointed himself out as a railway enthusiast, but he was the one who got into Cleverud-Sørli in RNB last year, which meant that one had to cut the roadways in order to increase the railway effort in the budget for 2022. What I think is important is that we are willing to look at alternative funding, and Oslo–Stockholm is a possibility for that. But in NTP there is not only a possibility to look at alternative funding, but also at alternative development. I hope a whole bunch of stuff is willing to consider it when we think New Roads will also get a railway project. I thought the representative Constantraune was holding a very good post. He pointed out that part of these standard rules is a little bit like EU controls on cars, and that's actually a little bit of what I also feel that the fourth railway package is actually. It's not about getting involved in an EU system, but about letting the railways go between the different countries in Europe as much as possible without pain, with the same rails, with the same platform standards, and that we should be happy to have that cooperation. I think I'm a good vision, but we'll take that debate in this room when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1644	If it's not the Council of States that is the Holy Spirit in this context, the President doesn't understand anything. The debate on substance is closed. Then 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1664	May 5th, in two days' time, is the International Day for Mothers' Mental Health. In Norway, there has been a debate on what we can do to make women have more children. I think that if we could have the same commitment around what we can do to make it better for those who are actually going to be or have been mothers, that would be good. Because even if being pregnant and having a baby should be one of the happiest moments of life, pregnancy and childbirth are not just happiness. Not so many people feel like a shock and no joy comes. Many Norwegian women experience depressive symptoms associated with pregnancy and childbirth. Many women are so sick that they are afraid that things can go wrong. Many concerns come during pregnancy, of course at birth, but also during childbirth. This is still taboo, and there's still too little openness about it. A new Norwegian report shows that women do not get enough follow-up and many are not caught. The absence of treatment can have major consequences, not only for mother and children, but also for the family and society. Researchers believe that health professionals do not have enough knowledge of what is called perinatal health. The pandemic has made this even more challenging. Many women rely more than before until birth because it appears that their hospital practices strict visiting regimes, so that the father is sent in the hall or has to wait in the car outside until the birth is complete. It is important to ensure early identification and assistance for pregnant and pregnant women who develop depression and depression in pregnancy and postpartum. The 1001-day National Association is a user-driven organisation that works for mental health during pregnancy and after birth. The name symbolises that there are 1001 days in time from conception to the child's two birthday. This is a vulnerable time and a great transition for parents. The organisation is committed to seeing the family as a unit and to thinking whole-heartedly. Their websites report a recent meta-analysis of 46 students, and the global estimate suggests that over one in four pregnant women experience symptoms of depression at a level corresponding to clinical depression. Nearly one third also experienced symptoms associated with clinical distress. The recommendation was that the screening should be performed at the highest priority. Until now, women's mental health during pregnancy and after birth is a debate that few really go into. When women with depression are not discovered, it is a situation that can not only destroy a life, but it can destroy a family. The requirement is that screening is introduced using the so-called EPDS method to capture women and thus avoid unnecessary suffering. This can of course be said to be the responsibility of the municipality, and it is, but sometimes a priority must also be given to this national. Both national professional guidelines on maternity and health care recommend that parents should be asked about their own mental health and well-being, but no mention is made of the method to be used. It's a cross of thought that pregnant people are being followed up so emphatically when it comes to physical things like blood pressure, weight gain, sugars in the urine, etc., but they're not sure that anyone systematically asks them about the mental health of theirs, as we know that it may well have so dramatic consequences for the health of both mother and children. In recent years there have been several major uprisings that have expressed dissatisfaction with today's maternity care. We have the Bunads guerrilla, which fights against centralization of food supply. We have now received the Barcelonet uprising – where drawing males also received great attention to their depictions of the birth experience – which protests against the strict Korona regime, that it does not take into account what is women’s needs. We've got a situation where there's getting shorter and shorter in the maternity wards. The breast-feeding rate goes down. Many people experience a lack of help in municipalities, and when they ask the women themselves, there are many who are happy with birth help, but not with childbirth. This is because the staff in the maternity wards are so scarce, and if one has to give priority, it gives priority to the provision and follow-up of women who are pregnant. Many leave too soon because the offer is too bad anyway. I get hurt inside when I read about women who experience such things, and I ask myself if it's actually necessary in a society like ours. For women, they shall not be left to themselves. There's a campaign now called the "#I'm not a referee", which deals with this with the coronary anthem in the birthplaces. Even if it has our decisions in Stortinget that one should use rapid testers, it has, for example, to do so. The women's clinic in Bergen is not yet in use, and the fathers are still placed in the cars with a carpet and have to wait until their journey. In addition, many more women than before during the pandemic have to meet alone on controls and other examinations. I think it's time to prioritize women's mental health, and the world day for mothers' mental health, which is in two days' time, is an opportunity for the council to say something more about the government going in for a systematic screening of all pregnant women to find out if one has a mental disorder or a problem. My question is whether the government will take the initiative in this, and what else will it do to ensure early identification and assistance to pregnant women and women who develop depression and depression in pregnancy and after birth, and what the government is doing to increase the competence of health professionals about this. It is a quality requirement that every woman in the active phase of birth should have a midwife with her, and it is a paradox that there has actually been a debate about a woman who is inside and giving birth to a midwife should have a midwife in her active phase of birth. Of course, it should be quite obvious, but that's the way it was, and we've got a people's claim that one should not be born alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1683	The time before and after birth is often marked by strong emotions, and it is not uncommon to feel depressed, irritable or anxious a few days after birth. For some, the condition will persist, and there might be a birth depression. This hits between 7 and 13 pst. of all birthing women, but also fathers and co-mothers may experience depression in the pre- and post-natal period. We know that many people have struggled with mental distress during the coronary apathy. This may also apply to a part that has had a child in the middle of a period of severe infectious disease prevention and concern for the future. It is important that signs of birth depression are detected early, and the staff who meet prospective and newly-baked parents should be aware of this condition. In the national vocational guidance for maternity care, it is recommended that mental health issues be addressed with the pregnant woman and her partner, so that early care can be provided and, if appropriate, further referred to. The guideline places particular emphasis on the need to identify pregnant women with a risk of anxiety, depression and mental health challenges. The emphasis is also placed on mental health in the National Health Station and School Health Guidelines. It is strongly recommended that mental health and well-being be taken up when a nurse or a midwife comes on home visits seven to ten days after birth. Later this should be the subject of all consultations in order to ensure a good and safe growth for the child. However, I would like to ask the Health Directorate to consider whether issues related to maternity or maternity depression should be further clarified in relevant guidelines. Depression during pregnancy and after childbirth is treated in the same way as depression otherwise. For those who have mild and moderate plagues, it is helpful to get in the municipality. The government has prioritised mental health and alcohol since 2013, and we see good results from the efforts in the municipalities. There has been a growth of nearly 2,600 yearly works in municipal services from 2016 to 2020. We have also requested that all municipalities have psychological competence, and more than nine out of ten municipalities had this at the end of 2019. With more psychologists in the municipalities, we can, among other things: to establish more low-threshold services. At present, 66 municipalities and parts of cities have established the lowthreshold offer of rapid mental health care, without long waiting and without referral requirements. For 2021, we propose a gradual conversion of the grant scheme in order to make several municipalities set up this offer. The severity of the birth depression is important for the treatment. Pregnants who have or have had severe psychiatric disorders should be assessed by their prescriber, who may refer to the specialist healthcare service. National guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of adults with depression in primary and specialist health services provide recommendations for the treatment of depression during pregnancy and after birth. There are also a number of digital tools that can help people with mental health challenges. The Health Directorate has worked to develop a digital mastering tool in municipalities for such distresses as anxiety, depression and sleep deprivation. In the long term, this could be an important tool for simple, rapid and accessible treatment in the event of mild to moderate mental health problems. We have very good maternity and maternity care in Norway. Women are more satisfied with birth and maternity care now than before, and fewer women and children are injured when they are born. New parents should be well followed in primary health care, and almost all should be followed up by health care and school health services. Barrel women who need specialist health care after they are outsourced should be offered it. Personnel, and particularly health care professionals and midwives, are the most important resource for catching up and helping parents who are mentally struggling after birth. In 2018, the government reintroduced the legal requirement for midwifery competence in the municipalities, which the red-green government in its time removed. We have also strengthened health and school health services, including midwifery. In the budget for 2021 it was granted over 1.3 billion. kr for health centre and school health services, broken down by framework grants and earmarked grants. 60 million. Of these kr are earmarked for midwives. In addition, municipalities may apply for funding for midwives through the other means of health and school health services. The focus on health care and school health services has led to a sharp increase in annual work for both midwives and health care professionals. From 2015 to 2019, the number of nurseries in the municipalities increased by about 60 pst. Health care training has just been revised in RETHOS and a new training code has been established. This means, among other things: that health care providers contribute to the promotion of mental and physical health and contribute to mastering and quality of life. The role of midwives has also been very important both in municipalities and in hospitals. Therefore, it is decided that training for midwives should also be reviewed and reviewed in RETHOS. We need even better knowledge of how to promote mental health and quality of life during and after pregnancy. As part of this work, the Nordic Council of Ministers has initiated the cooperation project ‘Barnets 1000 first days’ in which the Health Directorate participates. The aim is to gain knowledge of how the various countries promote mental health and quality of life during pregnancy, and how best to support families during pregnancy, infants and young children. The need for screening of pregnant and pregnant women for birth depression, if any, will be considered as part of this project. We have very good maternity and maternity care in Norway. Nevertheless, we must continue to make the offer even safer and better. The Health Directorate's report on maternity care, which came last year, is about changes in the food population and its consequences for manpower and funding. Psychiatric health and postnatal depression are included in the report, and it is noted that multidisciplinary follow-up in pregnancy must be pursued – with gynecologist, midwife, permanent practitioner and psychologist or psychiatrist. The report also suggests that some women need longer lay time in the hospital after birth, both to assess the mental state of their mother and to observe the child. I have been very clear that the time of hospital discharge after birth is to be adapted to the needs of the woman and the newborn child and will be decided in consultation with the woman. No one should go home until the family is able to take care of themselves at home. The Health Directorate report emphasises that Norway is one of the safest countries in the world to be born, but that there is an increased proportion of risk patients among those born. These developments make new demands on the competence and resources of food institutions. In the revised 2020 mission document, I therefore asked health regions to follow up these needs in the development of food institutions. We have also asked the directorate to revise the guide A safe supply of food. The supervisor shall recommend norms for staffing and competence requirements in food establishments. That we followed up in the middle of the coronary apathy, shows how high a priority this work is.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1713	Thank you for your reply. I've heard this before, where there's a list of what the government has prioritised in recent years. What was positive was that the Council of State said a sentence to ask the Health Directorate to evaluate and clarify the recommendations that go to ask the pregnant women and the women who are pregnant about their mental health. It's positive. I had hoped that there was an answer that he would introduce a more clear screening of this, instead of more vague, best-recommendations in the professional guidelines that apply today. But, after all, it is positive that the Council of State will take an initiative to interpret the recommendations as being indebted. I disagree that one makes it like everything is really very good in Norway today, and I think it can be done even better. According to the SSB and an article in the NRK on 21 March, which refers to it, less than half of all women who were born last year experienced a home visit from midwife after birth. The number has been at this location for many years. In Troms and Finnmark and in Rogaland, the worst was only one in four, or 28 pst. The midwife union requires the authorities to take action. Although it was legal to have midwife competence, the increase in midwife provision in the municipalities has not been in proportion to the increase in the number of tasks they have received, among other things. with early printing. When we think about birth depression, it is quite unlikely that one will do more to secure all women's home visits immediately after one has returned home. Going one week, two weeks, three weeks home without an offer, there is also a great risk that a person will not be diagnosed with birth depression and will not receive help. So I'd like to challenge the Council of State on that. There are many good priorities, and there must be more staffing in the food clinics, but when less than half of the women born last year received home visits, there must be a challenge that the Council of State sees as having an impact on the mental health of mothers and the development of birth depression.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1724	Thanks for the feedback on my reply. It's true that we're going to ask the directorate to look at guidelines, while Nordic cooperation is just going to look at screening as a tool, as I also said in my answer, which I realized the interpellant was concerned about. With regard to the description of the situation in the municipalities, it is quite right that we still have ambitions to strengthen the midwife service in the municipalities, so that one can get even better follow-up. But it cannot be correct that the growth in the number of midwives has not been in proportion to the problems with pregnant women. Unfortunately, we are in a situation where fewer children are born in Norway. At the same time, the number of midwiferies in municipalities has increased by 60 pst. from 2015 to 2019, i.e. at a time when there has been at the same time a decrease in the number of births. So with the words that the representative Toppe uses when she describes the offer in the municipalities now, I am very interested in whether the representative can tell you how she will describe the situation in the municipalities when the Senter party ran in Norway. At that time, there was a significant – significant – lower number of midwiferies in the municipalities, while there were significantly more births.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1731	As the interpellant has well explained, an alarming increase in the prevalence of depression related to pregnancy and childbirth has been reported in the period since the pandemic hit us. The crisis we're facing can only trigger mental states, and newly-baked mothers and pregnant women are extra vulnerable. At the same time, even shorter bedtime, also mentioned, comes the fact that partners are not allowed to take part in births and that too few visits are made by midwives. We also know that, according to the Health Directorate, very many patients – 3 out of 10 – are rejected even if they are referred to treatment in mental health protection. This is in general and does not apply only to pregnant women. This large increase in the pandemic is, of course, very serious. However, this has been a negative trend over time. Already at the beginning of 2018, researchers reported depressing figures for birth depression in a study. Psychiatric disorders after birth were almost doubled over a 15-year period, and it was described as a dramatic increase. Professor Eberhard-Gran in the study linked this to poorer public maternity care, shorter bedtime, fewer midwives and poorer preparedness with nursing care outside the municipalities. It has been three years since 2018, and it does not appear that the health authorities have taken this seriously enough. Nor does it seem that the charge of psychologists in each municipality has improved this situation. It is necessary to take action to reach a wider range, and screening is a method that can be used with a large heel. We in the Center Party believe that we need to get away from effort-driven funding, which means that hospitals give priority to what gives the best financial pay-out for health businesses. We believe that it is a state responsibility to improve soil-killing. Although the Council of State pointed to an increase in recent years, it is a fact that the League of Peasants itself believes it is a powerful undercover of annual work in the municipalities. We can't lay down maternity wards, and we can't build hospitals without maternity rooms. The lack of priority for pregnant and birth is very serious, both in terms of the individual's physical and mental health and also in terms of a larger picture in our society, where we talk about living in the whole country and wanting to have more babies born. The uprisings we see in many places in the country, and that the interpellant has been in, are all very understandable. Hospitals and not least maternity wards shall not be market driven. They will give a good offer to everyone who needs it everywhere – an offer we as a nation should be proud of. My final question to the Council of State is: How does he feel that intervention-driven funding strengthens prevention measures in the food departments and women's clinics against a framework financing model?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1744	I want to be clear that I am happy with the answer from the Council of State when he says that he wants to ask the Directorate of Health to clarify the recommendations, I would not have quite got it with me, and also that Nordic cooperation will also look at screening. Then I got a little of what was behind the interpellation, because I think there are important structural measures to get a better situation out there. When I talked about quiet speech, it wasn't the midwife's wound I referred to. It's the number of those who get home visits after birth, who according to the League of Midwives have been in peace for years. The fact that the Council of State asks us back what it was like when the Senterpartiet crashed, as there were fewer midwiferies in the municipalities, is also linked to the fact that the need is now so enormously greater because the hospital lay time has fallen. And I know that women need more follow-up than before, there are more older when they give birth, there are more midwives with other diseases, etc., and that's among other things. several immigrants who also need more follow-up. But one cannot ignore the fact that the conversion that has taken place in the maternity wards has led to an enormous increase in the needs of local authorities. When I got my first child, it was five days – when I got my last, she was two days. To start with, we didn't get to go home until the child started to hang up, so the curves had to go up. Now children and women are sent out without the child being weighed. There is no need to be in the maternity ward until you notice that the child is starting to lie down. Then all the responsibility is transferred to the municipalities and the follow-up there, and then it is extremely much more dangerous now than it was before, if the midwife does not come on a home visit. That's the big difference in the situation now and the way he was for a while back. I have a specific question that I want to address. I have asked a written question about that, and it concerns the situation in Health Bergen and at the Women's Clinic. We've had a big decision that one should use fast stars, and they're not going to be used in Bergen, because they say they don't have resources or frames for it, and that leads to more people not allowed to be in part of the birth. There's nothing happening in that matter. Will the Council of State make sure that there is a change in Bergen?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1757	I just need to correct the impression created by the fact that there has been a significant decrease in the latency of midwives in recent years. The greatest decrease was from 1999 to 2008, when the lying time decreased by one day from 4.1 to 3.1 days. In 2017, the lying time was 2.8 days, and it has been quite stable for the last five years. I also perceive that there have been no major changes in the laying time since that. But it is absolutely right that from 1999 to 2008, a period that the Central Party should know well, it was a significant decrease in one day in the lay-off period. It is true that during the pandemic, the maternity wards have had great challenges in working to avoid infecting the wards. This is important, of course, because a maternity ward is infecting the department and staff, there is a high risk that the supply will have to be shut down or severely reduced, and births will have to be born elsewhere than planned. It's a heavy burden for the natives. Not least in areas of the country where there is longer travel time between the different hospitals, this could mean a significantly longer journey to the food supply. Therefore, it has been important for many food departments to avoid getting infected. I have commissioned the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute to assess the use of rapid tests in order to be able to ask for more presence, and I have also met with the health regions on the follow-up of those recommendations. Then one of the recommendations sees that there are also limitations. This means that one has to make concrete, local assessments. I understand that very well as a heavy burden for the natives and the family. But it is also the case that we have to take over the good local assessments that are made in relation to risk-rated areas in order not to get infected in a department where employees have to be quarantined, and where offers need to be reduced and birthing possibly moved and fed elsewhere. That's what you have to do in the individual hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1770	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1788	Psychiatric health is something that everyone has and is affected by. Psychiatric disorders and suffering in children and young people are among the most important health challenges in Norway, and when children and young people suffer psychologically, the costs are high for both the family and society. Early good and proper help will be decisive for the child’s further development. The children's office recently delivered a report on the paediatric psychiatry – BUP – entitled "I should have had the BUP in a suitcase". The report showed that in recent years there have been many plans and measures aimed at improving the mental health service for children and young people. The challenge has long been known in both professional and political environments, but in spite of this, the same problems persist year after year. The report concludes that today’s mental health protection is not rigged enough to follow up on children’s right to the best possible health care. Health barometer 2021, launched in April, showed that very few, only 11 pst., have a good impression of the healthcare provision given to people with psychiatric disorders, and only 5 pst. the school manages to deal with children and young people who are struggling with mental health challenges. The UN Children’s Committee has also pointed out on several occasions that mental health protection for children and young people in Norway is too poorly developed and that effective action is urgently needed. We know that there is a challenge in child and youth psychiatry with waiting times and different practices in assessing referral and lack of flexibility in treatment, that it is not enough to adapt your child’s needs. In particular, many concerns about the competence of those who provide treatment to children with complex disorders, such as eating disorders, and the responsibilities of child and youth psychiatry and the community health service. It is also a challenge that children and young people need to be better informed about their rights, and many also problemise the funding model that is currently in the field of mental health protection that it can prevent good interdisciplinary services. In its report, children’s housing called for a wide review of the supply of children and young people in need of help for mental distress and suffering. The centre party submits a proposal to that effect for approx. a month ago, with that being voted down in the Storting. There has also been a debate in the Stortingen on daily places in mental health protection for children and young people, where, together with the rest of the opposition, we have received a majority decision to stop further reducing bed capacity in mental health protection. And I'm waiting for the Health Directorate to come up with the review of capacity needs, as announced in the National Health and Hospital Plan. The waiting time for children and young people has been too long, but during the pandemic she has of course been even longer. It's worrying when you've got so many feedback. In the interpellation I refer to Health Bergen, but we have actually received feedback from all over the country about a huge increase in referrals under the pandemic – 40–50 pst. – and what worries me is that professionals are telling me that they are increasing numbers of referrals, and they are becoming more and more serious about the circumstances that are being referred to. When it comes to eating disorders, as this interpellation specifically mentions, it's basically a serious condition. It is one of the most serious mental disorders among children and young people — with a high risk of serious outcomes, and many may be ill for many years. It is particularly important that you arrive early for treatment. I think it's worrying that one experiences such an enormous increase in referrals to serious mental illnesses, especially eating disorders, during this pandemic. One assumes that 50,000 women aged 15–44 years have an eating disorder. Of course, it can also affect men and boys, but at least that's what's spoken. There is also a clear feedback from user associations that there are a lot more people who are contacting. Consulting about eating disorders, which are shortened to ROS, also has a large increase in the number of those who make contact and where serious things are involved, such as suicidal thoughts and ethical problems. My question is whether the Council of State can do what they do to ensure that there is sufficient capacity in the counselling service and the treatment system to help young people with eating disorders quickly. I am interested in listening to what the Council of State thinks about long-term measures to strengthen the treatment and follow-up of young people with eating disorders, but also what to do immediately under the pandemic when the services are in such a spat like they are doing out there, with such an increase in the number of people making contact, and where there are some very serious things involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1811	I share the representative Toppe's concern about increasing the demand for advice and health care for eating disorders during the pandemic. It's too early to say anything certain about any causal relationship, but we see that there's an increased momentum, and it's important to take it seriously. The pandemic and infective measures have led to severe pressures on children and young people. Many have felt lonely and had heavy thoughts. These are perfectly normal reactions in a time that's anything but normal. For most people it will go over when everyday life becomes more like before, but solitude and lack of a firm framework in everyday life can also lead to mental health challenges and aggravation that was already there. That is why we have taken many steps to help children and young people who are struggling under the pandemic. There has been a steady increase in patients with eating disorders over several years, and we see that there are several people who are being referred for this now under the pandemic. Young people who develop eating disorders may experience loss of youth and eating disorders may develop in a serious way. Therefore, it is important to provide help as early as possible. The representative, Top, asks what the government is doing to ensure sufficient capacity in the treatment supply. I would first like to mention that public health services are mainly operational, including under the pandemic. This includes, inter alia: health centre and school health services, decision-makers, mental health protection for adults and mental health protection for children and young people, including the country's approx. 80 paediatric and adolescent psychiatric outpatient clinics, which also provide services in the event of eating disorders. In addition, all health regions have regional units for the treatment of particularly severe eating disorders. It's very good that more people now get help for their eating disorders. However, there are still enough people who are not discovered early and receive treatment that they should have had. Several studies show that patients with eating disorders wait a long time before seeking help, often more than five years. We know that treatment has good effect. So we want even more of those who need it to get the help they need. I am also concerned that these patients should have a good quality patient profile. We therefore took the early initiative to create our own package for eating disorders for children and young people. These have now been extended up to 23 years. Health regions have reported to the Ministry that they pay great attention to the situation during the pandemic, and not least to the increased number of references related to eating disorders. They have put in place various measures to deal with increased progress and more serious conditions. Many people strengthen staff by redeploying personnel and intensifying recruitment in the field. In some places, evening outpatient clinics are opened and the number of acute beds is increasing. Several report that they have specifically strengthened the treatment capacity of young people with eating disorders. Some have established specialised outpatient teams, others have established daily services and extended daily services, for example: through the purchase of several places by private individuals offering treatment for eating disorders in children and young people. There is cooperation within health enterprises and between specialist health services and municipalities in order to maximise the use of resources. These measures have been implemented within the framework they have been given and, of course, have also been significantly increased under the pandemic. In addition, Stortinget has granted 100 million. to further enhance mental health protection for children and young people. The health regions had a deadline of 1 May to notify back how the funds are made available to strengthen the service. Substantial funding has also been allocated under the pandemic to maintain low-threshold municipal services and the provision of relief and activity for children and young people. The representative Toppe is concerned about what the government is doing to ensure sufficient capacity in advisory services. Auxiliary phones are an important counselling service for many with mental health challenges and are therefore supported by the State budget. The Church's SOS and Mental Health's helpline are combined with 16.5 million. kr under the pandemic, and several other chat and telephone services for children and young people have also been strengthened. The size has asked the government to come back with proposals in the revised national budget for 2021 on how the advice on eating disorders can become a nationwide offer. Coronal apathy has led to an increased need for mental health care, including in the event of eating disorders. But we'll also focus on the time afterwards. Before the pandemic, we asked health regions, in cooperation with other agencies, to assess the need for mental health care in the coming years and the capacity of specialist health services. This assignment we get answers to during the summer. In March of this year, we set up a dedicated group of experts to look at how the pandemic had affected the mental health of the population and how we should strengthen the efforts to meet these challenges. The group has worked quickly, and we received the report from the sample leader Peder Kjøs last Friday, April 30. The report shows that the pandemic and infectious diseases measures have affected the quality of life, mental health and drug use of the population. Despite major upheavals in everyday life, many have managed well. Others have experienced significantly reduced quality of life, poorer mental health and increased use of drugs over the past year. The expert group draws particular attention to the need for further action for children and young people in vulnerable families, for young and young adults during education and in the establishment phase, and for older people who are vulnerable to serious illness and isolation. The report contains concrete and targeted measures to strengthen efforts, both in the short, medium and long term. The government will use the group’s proposals as a basis for decision-making for new actions. In conclusion, I would like to mention that these measures are in addition to a number of appropriations to provide particularly vulnerable groups in the last year, with the strengthening of municipal health and care services, welfare services, specialist health services and volunteer services. I can assure you that the government will continue to pay great attention to young people with serious disorders such as eating disorders, and to children and young people’s mental health in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1845	I would like to thank you for your answer. I feel that the government – of course – is doing what they can in the situation that you are in under the pandemic. What I'm concerned about is that a person would like to give more money to the counselling service, telephones and low-threshold services, but when it comes to the treatment capacity of the established healthcare system itself, it won't be enough money, because a lack of professionals is so acutely increasing in the number of requests and being able to handle them in a good way. So I'd like to ask the Council of State how to think about that challenge. We know that the recruitment of child psychiatrists has been pointed out for a long time, for example. by the Medical Association, as a speciality. There's a big problem, and it's very vulnerable already. So a question about counselling about eating disorders. There was a remark in the budget position, I think, from a joint committee, that pointed out that they had been reduced their budget two years ago, got a little bit more now, but still is below the economy they used to have, and then in a situation where they get a lot more requests. They feel that they cannot help those who make contact, and those who make contact are also in serious situations of serious illness. So can the council say a little bit about how to think about the possibility of strengthening Consulting on eating disorders, ROS? Otherwise, I would like to ask the Council of State whether he thinks that the treatment supply and the situation of those with eating disorders outside the pandemic are good enough. My experience and assessment is that it's too random in Norway -- it can be very good, and it can be very non-good, to say it like that. For individuals who end up in a place where they are actually neglected, such a diagnosis is disastrous. I would like to hear from the Council of State an assessment of what he thinks this field needs to be strengthened. Yes, it will be a package sequence etc., but at the same time it will be a professional environment around. How can one make all of them very good, and – not least – that permanents and health wards are involved in this very early, because too many go too long? These are guys and girls who don't want help, so it's not easy. But the more it's a big responsibility for the health service to discover them and help them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1856	I thank you for the post and would like to say that I broadly share the assessments that the representative has of the situation and the challenges, both before and under the pandemic and also in the future. It is quite right that although we have increased the appropriations for mental health in the specialist health service also during the pandemic and have asked for this offer to be given priority, there are challenges in recruiting enough competent personnel. So in my answer I mentioned some of the other steps that have been taken by the service to try to compensate for it with evening outpatients and with other ways of doing it, etc. Fortunately, it has given the result that despite the increased attendance, we have seen that the waiting time in this area has fallen, and more have been given help. But there are a lot more people who need help in the future. I think it'll be of great help to get the investigation that we ordered before the pandemic, which is going to say something about what will be the need in the future. It also provides a better planning horizon for personnel. So I think it is essential that we do not forget that we still need to build up low-threshold services, not least in the municipalities. Most people who face a mental health challenge in life that is so serious that it is not enough with the help of friends, acquaintances and family, get it in their youth and childhood. We know that in that area we have very good help that helps. That's the positive news. This is an area of healthcare where we really have a lot to offer if you get it early enough. Therefore, good services in municipalities that catch children and young people early will have a very important impact on their health, of course, but also because one in childhood and youth is so vulnerable: if the mental health challenge goes beyond, for example. schooling, not only can it have lifelong consequences for the possibility of working and establishing a family, but it can also have health consequences for the rest of life. That's why we have to be able to have at least two thoughts in our head at the same time. We will need to strengthen the specialised offer, but it should not divert attention from the need to strengthen early efforts and the low-threshold offer in municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1869	The debate on substance is closed. 11 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-03.ana.ud516e1884	There is no record available. The map has thus been debated for today. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? – That is not the case, and the meeting has been cancelled.
