ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e91	The representative of Åsunn Lyngedal, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The President will draw attention to the fact that the cases are No. 1-3 on the current map has not been out of the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours, cf. Paragraph 46 of the Rules of Procedure. However, the President will propose that matters be dealt with. No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon if necessary. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1 and 2 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e130	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e137	First, let me thank the Committee for the goodwill and good cooperation with regard to the relatively rapid treatment of the law on wage-earnings for the dispute between the Union and the Municipality of Oslo and the Union and the KS, respectively, in the context of the interim settlement in 2021. Despite the fact that we are dealing with both matters together, I would like to make it clear that we have had time to read through the background of payroll, and the proposition has made clear the background. The Committee points out that the Norwegian model and tripartite cooperation have served Norway well over time and given us a society of small wage differences and high employment. The core of the Norwegian labour market model is strong social partners and is based on the fact that wage settlement is the responsibility of the parties. The right to strike for better pay and working conditions is a fundamental right for workers in Norway, and forced pay is very intrusive to the established strike right. Society and stakeholders must initially face the disadvantages that labour struggles bring. However, if the labour struggle leads to a risk to life, health or safety, or threatens completely vital social interests, it may be necessary to intervene with forced pay. Norway has ratified several ILO conventions that protect freedom of organisation and strike. Forced payroll is not desirable and the authorities must intervene only if it is absolutely necessary to prevent risks to life and health. The interpretation of the ILO Conventions opens the door to intervention if the strike endangers life, health or personal safety, even if there are strong demands for intervention in the strike. The Committee refers to the presentation by the ministry of the facts on which the decisions on the compulsory payroll cases were based and takes note of these observations. The majority of the Committee, all other than the Socialist Left, subscribe to the proposal for a decision of the Proposition. In addition, the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Central Party and the Socialist Left, believes that the intervention of the Storting will have a devastating effect on the Norwegian negotiating and fighting right of labour disputes being politicised. Then we risk that the political situation will affect whether a strike is considered legal or not. This, in the majority's opinion, would be undermining the strike as we know it. In the following account, I present to the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party's special remarks relating to the understanding of the ILO's core conventions. These include fundamental human rights and represent a minimum of rights to be respected in the workplace. Norway has signed and ratified all eight conventions and is fully bound by the content of the Convention. We believe that the ILO core conventions thus commit Norway to this day. They are important legal sources in Norwegian law, and the principle of presumption ensures compliance with the Convention by far. The incorporation of those rights into the human rights law in practice is only relevant to the level at which the rights are to be held and the relevance attached to the definition of the legal status and therefore the rights of workers under the ILO core conventions for all practical purposes have been fulfilled. However, we also recognise the need to clarify the use of remuneration between the social partners. We are aware that such a process was initiated under the then State Council Anniken Hauglie, and that the Council of State Røe Isaksen has called a meeting with the parties later today. We see that under the previous government, i.e. the government of Stoltenberg II, the payroll was used 11 times, and under this government we are with today's possible decisions up to 10. We therefore believe that there is no basis for believing that wages are used to undermine the striker's right as we know it. On this basis, the parties to the Government agree to the recommendation of the Committee at the Innst. 666 L for 2020-2021 – and hope not the setting number is a bad sign, President – and joins the recommendation A in the Innst. 662 L for 2020-2021, but voting against Recommendation B.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e167	This case is not about whether or not you support the pay demands of the strikers, nor about which of the parties you think is responsible for the situation that arose. There is a lot that can be said about it, but there is no responsibility of the Storting in this case. Strike is the responsibility of the parties – one and only. The reason is that we don't want the politicians to go in and overrule the paycheck or decide the paycheck for people. One has to be either extreme to the right or extreme to the left in Norwegian policy to mean something else. The Norwegian social-democratic social model with central and coordinated wage settlements between organised parties has been and is essential for Norway to have achieved such good results through crises that we have had good wage development for ordinary people and that we have a society of relatively small differences. In all countries where they do not have such solutions, pay differentials have become high. In countries with politically determined minimum wages, the result has been that the low-paid have received a roof they never get over – not a floor they can grow from. Forced pay is the government's responsibility – one and only. The reason is that there is no separate statutory provision on compulsory payroll. A law must be adopted on a case-by-case basis. That is only why Stortingen has this case to deal with. The size does not have the competence to assess whether there was a risk to life and health in a strike, which is the basis for the government’s decision on compulsory payroll. If the Storting went into and assessed the behaviour of the organisations involved in the strike, or whether there was a risk to life and health, it would create a completely impossible situation. The parties had to stand up in Stortinget with their lawyers to argue for their views, and this could have led to the collapse of the entire wage formation. So the role of the size in this case is not to decide whether or not you support pay demands, nor whether there was a risk to life and health. We know only the Council of State, and we only have to assess whether there have been actual or fundamental errors in the decision on compulsory payroll. No organisations have made contact with the Committee in this respect. Then we have to assume that there is a consensus that there was actually a danger to life and health at the given time, and that the government's proposition is a proper representation of the actual conditions. Thus, according to the view of the Workers' Party, Stortinget has no choice but to take note of the government's decision and join it. Forced payroll is very intrusive to the striker's rights. The ILO has long asked the government to discuss with the parties how to have a better system to ensure a real strike. It is critical that the government has not taken this into account and has ensured a better system to clarify the basis for claims on life and health before any decision on forced pay comes to the Council of State. This could lead to a debate on the basis of the decisions, as we see it being now and in several other cases this year. The last time that Stortinget dealt with a case on compulsory payroll – in the dispute between Parat/YS and NHO and between the Trade Union/LO and NHO in the context of the main tariff settlement 2020 – the Workers’ Party voted against the compulsory payroll bill. There were two reasons for that. One was that the trade union sent a film to the committee that they thought there had been a mix of the effects of the strikes of the LO and the YS, without the individual strikes being considered separately. The other was that the trade union pointed out that neither the government nor the Health Authority contacted the worker’s quality assurance page on the actual basis before the decision was taken. Both of these factors gave reason to claim that the ILO nuclear conventions had not been complied with. So that's not the case this time. If Norway had implemented the ILO Conventions in the Human Rights Act, which the Workers’ Party has proposed several times, it would provide organisations with a real opportunity for judicial review of the legality of government intervention in the event of forced pay. That's where such questions belong, not in the main hall. I therefore recommend to the Committee that the ILO core conventions be included in the Human Rights Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e195	I can start by joining in what the two previous speakers have said, both on the responsibility of the parties to determine the formation of wages and, not least, on the use of compulsory pay and that it is the government that is sovereign to use that instrument. As far as we can see from the two things we're dealing with now, there might be good reasons why the government has done just that in this case, based on the basics that both the Health and DSB have given in the process. However, I would like to say that it stands out as strange to many of us who are only doctors in this, that KS does not show any greater wisdom when they are encouraged to seek a waiver, as one did in one case. It is in so far as the Storting is irrelevant, but I think it should still be said that when we have a year behind us where both many teachers and many health services have provided more than what many could expect, after my manipulation employers in this case should behave with a greater sense than it might appear that, based on the information the Stortinget has been sent. It does not change the fact that the government has to base the decisions they have made on the situation in which one really was. However, I think it should give cause for reflection for those who run the KS, that we have ended up in the situation we are now in, where compulsory pay was necessary in the year's pay cut, with the significance it has for the strike rate in this particular case, but also the importance it has for too many workers who have claimed more than many could expect in the last year. On the basis of the foregoing, as described in the proposition that is the background to the proposals made by the government, we also see no reason to do anything but what the Stortinge must do in this matter, simply to let the proposal on compulsory payroll go through, based on the leadership that has been provided, and the advice that the government has received from its supervisory authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e204	Law on compulsory payroll in the employment dispute between the Union and the KS and the Union and the Municipality of Oslo is on today's agenda. Strike is a legal, important means of fighting, and it's the responsibility of the parties, and I want to stress it as many people before me have said, that the Storting should not intervene in such a strike. However, one by the government whose strike poses a risk to life and health, as assessed by the community’s professional bodies — in this case the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness and Health Supervision — shall carry out an assessment. The centre party has thoroughly examined what triggered the two issues in the Forced Pay Act that are being dealt with today, and we refer to our comments in the vote. One case, between Unio and KS, is based in Fredrikstad, in the waste incineration plant FREVAR, where there was an acute risk of fire, and where there was a foreplay that meant that applications were sent to grant a derogation from the strike, and it was not granted. An undertaking was first given by the central strike management to change its position after the parties had been invited to meet with the State Council. It is important to be aware that the system in the KS sector is that it is not KS that sends applications for a derogation, it is the individual municipality, and each municipality sends an application for a derogation for each person for one day. It's a different system than anything else. So there's an unprecision on the part of the government when it's talking about KS and applying for a waiver. It is the individual municipality that is applying for a derogation. In the case of the case between the municipality of Unio and the municipality of Oslo, one was there in a similar situation. The disbursements were rejected. Then one came in a critical situation, where Unio changed his attitude, but in both cases it was not the will of the municipality of Fredrikstad or the municipality of Oslo to seek a new exemption. The Centre therefore agrees that the basis for the compulsory pay bill was present and supports the proposal for compulsory pay. At the same time, I would say that Unio has good arguments for his demands, that is, the basis of strike. In this case, the Union is primarily linked to the situation of teachers and nurses, and there is a common recognition that there has been a clear lack of real wage increase – similar to that of others in the municipal sector – for teachers, and thus promoted the Union's demand for a clear real wage increase and the start of a pay gap. However, there was a direct conflict with the performance of the front subject in the private sector, with an addition of 2.7 pst. It is important that recruitment is ensured and that pay and working conditions must be attractive to both teachers and nurses. There is a common recognition between the parties that teachers have lost their local pay supplements and have had a so-called ‘minor pay development’ between 2004 and 2019. It is also a recognition that nurses need to improve their situation in order to ensure their recruitment. One has to look not only at wages but also at strengthening education. One must look at the promotion of a full-time culture, and one must also implement a trust reform that makes it more attractive to be a health professional or a nurse in situations where a person takes responsibility and has the authority to take responsibility. These relationships, both for teachers and for nurses, must be followed up in cooperation with the counterparty, the Municipal Council of Municipalities, in the coming year, so that we avoid the critical situation that we have now had over a long time for the two groups. I would also like to say, finally, that the Centre Party is to incorporate the ILO core conventions into the Human Rights Act, and we are also behind Recommendation B from the Committee's majority, which is the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e219	We have a year behind us with a loud applause to the nurses, to those who have stood in the front line in the fight against the pandemic, who have really kept the wheels going in this society. Now we had the opportunity – the opportunity to show that we meant something by applause. Forced payroll is a very serious step to take. The conditions for putting this into service are that there should be a risk to life and health. In both of the strikes we're now discussing, there's a disagreement as to whether it's actually there. Unio has said that they were ready to dispensate the employees of the waste facility in Fredrikstad, where there was a danger of fire. We trust what Unio says. Obviously, the right-hand government didn't. To a very small extent, you would hear what the strikers said. They heard a lot about what employers came with. In the second conflict, the nurses’ association has been out and criticised that they were not contacted and included in dialogue prior to the decision. SV believes that the Health Authority must talk to both parties and not only the employer, when assessing whether there is a risk to life and health. The ILO has been very clear in its criticism of Norway’s use of forced pay, and rightly so. The striker's a human right, and forced payroll goes across this. Therefore, care should be taken about its use. A Fafo report on the use of compulsory pay in Norway shows that, in particular, the health sector points out as an area where disagreements and disputes are resolved by forced pay, both in public and private terms. The report points out that when the employee organisations complain to the ILO, it is justified that State intervention against strike and referral of the dispute to the settlement of the Rikswohnsnemda involves a restriction on strike rights that is incompatible with the ILO Convention. The rapid intervention also limits the possibility between the parties and the possibility of using strike as a means of promoting and caring for their interests, while at the same time affecting the parties’ adaptation of the strike and helping to weaken their confidence in health authorities. The task of the big business is not to assess whether there is a risk to life and health in a strike. We are aware of that. But we see the need to give clear information when we believe that the matter could have been handled in another way, and with as many consequences as the payroll has for the workers, we choose to take their side. It has been quite clear in the conflict between UNIO and KS that the employer would not have applied for a derogation once again after all the information had been made available to both parties. For a long time, the trade union movement has asked questions about whether employers are speculating in compulsory pay. Usually this employer serves at the expense of the employees. Here we have two cases of forced pay where there is a great deal of disagreement about many factors, which raises doubts about the use of this tool. That is why we in SV choose to stand outside the setting by voting against, and I include this SV's proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e234	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e239	The right to strike is a fundamental right in working life, which it is important to maintain. Forced payroll is a very interventional tool that must be used with caution. The striker must be real, and he should not be undermined. However, the right to strike shall never go beyond life and health. In the dispute between UNIO and KS, Fredrikstad considered the situation as critical and on this basis contacted the State administrator. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, DSB, gave its professional judgment, which supports the concern of the municipality of Fredrikstad for the current situation. Some claim that the problem was solved, and that the strike should not have been interrupted by forced pay. The situation was temporarily resolved by the establishment of an alternative fire control in the company FREVAR. The situation worsened on Friday 4 June, and it was concluded that the situation was considered critical. DSB supports this description of the situation. The employer agreed to apply for a derogation, but this was refused. The complaint of refusal was also rejected. It was therefore clear to the ministry that the parties were unable to resolve the situation that put life and health at risk. In the work dispute between UNIO and the Municipality of Oslo, a strike was made on 27 May, which led to many in schools, kindergartens, homes, hospitals and other public works being taken out on strike. On June 2, the strike was stepped up. Of course, health authorities were alerted to the strike and continuously assessed the consequences for health services. Through a meeting between the Council of State and the parties, it was clear that the parties themselves would not find a solution to the situation that endangers life and health. The ILO Convention protects the freedom of organisation and the right to strike. There are strict demands for intervention in the strike, but it is also open here for intervention if the strike endangers life, health or personal security for all or large parts of the population. A professional assessment of the risk to life and health cannot be considered as thin. Of course, a worker gets disappointed when he cancels a job without the desired result. Nevertheless, we must respect the fact that a thorough assessment of the criterion of life and health must be based. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness and Health Supervision are competent to assess situations in their field. The Christian People's Party understands that a person is disappointed that work disputes are interrupted by forced pay, but it is unfortunately sometimes necessary. The care of life and health must go – in any case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e256	What we have seen in the last week is that employers in the public sector are in practice entitled to veto when the parties are called to the Council of State to discuss whether or not a strike poses a risk to life and health. Employers KS and Oslo Municipality were allowed to stop legitimate and sound strikes by refusing to negotiate at the meeting of the Minister of Labour. Unio was open to grant exemptions, sought dialogue, while employers were not interested in dialogue and also refused to send a dispensation application to the other party. This is one of many examples of the law giving employers the opportunity to stop a strike at the moment when there is a notification that there may be a risk to life and health, rather than being obliged to see how the strike can proceed properly. After teachers, health professionals, kindergarten workers and nurses have been in the forefront for over a year to deal with the pandemic, it is a political scandal that the only thing they get in return from the majority of the population and the government is forced to pay. What we have been given to deal with matters in Stortinget clearly shows that it was possible to continue the strikes without risk to life and health, and that the trade unions were willing to go far to find solutions. In both cases, however, the employer side disagreed. That's KS. It's KS, it's the state, it's the Municipality of Oslo that's the employers in the public sector, and it's politicians who are responsible in both the municipality of KS and Oslo. The large parties do not take political responsibility for ensuring both recruitment and good enough working conditions for those employed in well-being, but it wants Red. We vote against the use of compulsory pay terms in this case. It would obviously be possible to continue this crucial fight for better working conditions and not least for proper recruitment. But the majority of the population, through the support of forced payroll, are, in reality, deprived of employees in the welfare professions a real strike in this way. We see from the case file that the warning of danger to life and health has also been made on a failed basis, because if the situation of the plant FREVAR could have become dangerous, it was about to be resolved by the fact that Unio would grant exemptions. But KS refused to negotiate and refused to apply again. We see that what was an acute danger to life and health in Oslo's home service was similar weekend crew. It either says something very serious about staffing on weekends – not least on holidays, where there is even fewer at work – or that there was not a sufficiently thorough assessment of whether there was an acute risk to life and health. So regardless of that, Unio, and he was willing to, grant exemptions, but the Municipality of Oslo, run by the Red-Greens, refused to cooperate on it. Now there have been so many times the use of forced pay terms on such a failing basis that a review of the scheme is needed. Therefore, it is a great pity that the majority of the population, including the Workers' Party, voted against the Red's proposal last week to review with the parties the use of the lockout and forced payroll to avoid undermining the striker's rights. It was too heavy a diet for the Workers' Party. It's interesting for people in LO and UNIO to notice themselves and think thoroughly through. We have never agreed that the Storting should override a strike. What we are asking for is a review and better regulation of the coercive practice of future strikes, so as not to undermine the striker's right, which is a human right, by changing governments – whether they are red-green or bourgeois. We can't have a situation where the employer's side actually has a trump card and a veto right and can stop any strike by refusing to negotiate exemptions, get in the wrong way, and in that way take away nurses, take away teachers and get out of kindergarten employees the real striker's rights. It's unsustainable. It has to end. Then we hope for the future that the Workers' Party will come up with a little better ideas, realizes the fundamental importance of the striker's rights for the Norwegian society – for the workers' position – and not simply agree with the use of the citizens, which thus undermines the real striker's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e281	The parties are responsible for the settlement of wages and salaries. It's those who set the requirements, it's those who negotiate, and it's those who use the means they have to achieve their goals. Society must initially withstand the consequences of such conflicts. It is also the responsibility of the parties that the work struggle – that is the concept we use of this, although it may sound a little strange – is carried out in a proper way and does not have consequences for life and health. It is the responsibility of the trade unions, and it is the responsibility of the employers. But it is also acceptable that if there is a risk to life and health, the state should intervene. Unfortunately, the two strikes that UNIO carried out in the KS region and in the Municipality of Oslo had such consequences. In the conflict between UNIO and KS, there was a situation at the FREVAR process facility for energy recovery and waste management that triggered concerns. The local fire service – and it is referred to the report in the proposition, so that everyone can go in and read – warned after an inspection of fire hazards, not even in the future, but a relatively acute fire hazard, and a fire that would be difficult to put out and could lead to danger to life and health. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness supported this description in its professional assessment, i.e. there was a situation of risk of self-ignition and fire in the recovery facility. The DSB concluded on 4 June that it was unable to comply with its obligations under the Fire and Explosive Protection Act. Then, of course, it is the professional assessments of the fire service and DSB that underlie the assessments of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. In the conflict between UNIO and the Municipality of Oslo, the Health Authority concluded that there would be a risk to life and health during the day of 7 June. The rationale for the conclusion was the strike-out and the non-acceptance of home-care dispensations in one urban area, the high overall burden on health and care services and the significant failure of healthcare to individual patients. Before both interventions were called to a meeting with the parties, and there I invited the parties to agree on measures to avert the danger of life and health. In both cases, there had been dispensations from the employer who had been rejected, but the employee offered to grant them when it was known that, in the opinion of the professional authorities, there was a risk to life and health. However, employers felt at the time that it was not natural to reapply for a derogation. I would like to make a comment on this with exemptions, because there is neither an obligation nor a right to apply for or to grant a derogation. The trade unions have no obligation to grant this, they can say no. Of course, it's because one side of the derogation is that you undermine the effect of the strike. Nor does the employer have any obligation to apply for this, and there are several examples of employers’ organisations in Norway who have as their policy that they do not apply for exemptions. On the basis of the technical assessments and that the parties were unable to resolve the acute situation of danger to life and health, the Ministry has no choice but to intervene in the two labour disputes. I finally want to say something about the relationship with the ILO Convention and the criticism from the ILO. In the past, Norway has been criticised by the ILO for intervening in an ongoing conflict. It was the last time in the so-called oil conflict in 2012. In recent years, the state has been complaining twice to the ILO, it was the washing-up bar in 2013 and it was strike and lockout in private care companies in 2018. The ILO concluded in both of these cases that the freedom of organisation, the right to free negotiations and the right to strike were not violated, because they considered that there had been a danger to life and health in «essential services». However, in its conclusions in the washing-up area, the ILO invited the State to engage in a dialogue with the parties on, for example: minimum crew or other solutions which may prevent the need to stop a strike. The dialogue, to which the representative Nordby Lunde referred, was started under the then Minister of Labour Anniken Hauglie. I also said earlier in this room that I would like to re-examine that dialogue – it has probably never been formally concluded – starting from this spring. Finally, I would like to say that I believe that the professional assessments underlying this must be professional assessments. I would like to explain in the round of questions how, for example: The Health Authority is in a strike situation, but I would like to stress that it is not the case that employers in Norway can order professional assessments from independent supervision, which we normally attach great weight and weight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e305	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e310	I have three questions for the Council of State. The government contacted the employee’s side before the current meeting on Friday 4 June at 9.30 p.m. 16 in order to clarify the actual conditions before the Council of State took its judgment on compulsory payroll? Did both parties at this meeting recognize that there was a danger to life and health at that time? Have any of the parties contacted the government and pointed out errors in the propositions made by the Council of State, which form the basis for the treatment of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e325	In connection with the Unio/KS strike, there was contact with both parties before the meeting. 16th@item: inlistbox It is very unusual that it is, but it was among other things. because the situation was special, simply because it was a strike linked to employees organised in the Maskinist Association, also a Union which strikes under the same tariff area – the Union has primarily nurses and teachers and some others. Because of this, contacts were made with the parties, including KS, in advance. Regarding question number two: I did not perceive in the meeting, nor have I seen in retrospect, that some of the organisations are asking questions about the professional assessments related to life and health. I have seen that there has been a discussion about it locally, in Fredrikstad, among other things, but I have not seen anyone asking questions about the professional assessments of the fire service and the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness. I am not familiar with any errors in the proposition either.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e334	I thank you for your answer. I think it's very clarifying, and it shows that both parties acknowledged that at the given time there was a danger to life and health. Then it is very extraordinary and unfortunate, I would say, if the Storting should review the judgements of the professional authorities and a situation that both parties recognised at the time the compulsory payroll was decided. Neither party has made contact with the Committee on Errors in the Proposition, and hence the Storting has in reality no choice. The second thing in one of these settings, in Recommendation B, is to get the ILO core conventions into the Human Rights Act. Why is the right-hand side so opposed to strengthening the ILO core conventions by giving them a place in Norwegian law, so that the parties have the opportunity to ask questions about forced payroll for Norwegian law?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e341	If the representative allows that, I'll end the last part of the answer to the previous question as well. I have registered that in the public, KS, as also the representative Lundtigen did now, stresses that KS centrally does not send in any exemptions. That's in itself formally right, but as it says in the proposition, KS made it clear that there would be no more dispensations, and we're dealing with the central parties. I also record that the nurses' union has in retrospect said in the media that they believe that there was no danger to life and health. However, as I said, this is the professional justification of the Health Authority, and it is not the case that the Health Authority automatically bases the justification of the employer or municipality. In the case of the ILO Convention, all Conventions are incorporated into Norwegian law. All Conventions apply. The Labour Party believes that including them in the Human Rights Act will provide a clearer legal basis, but it is not that it is itself necessary in order to address, for example: the striker's rights to the legal entity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e350	First of all, I would like to agree with the common sense of reality about the UN and the KS that the representative of Grande has now presented. The application for a derogation from the strike in the KS area shall be submitted by the employer. In this situation, the employer was the municipality of Fredrikstad and the municipality of Oslo. In the case of a work dispute within the responsibilities of KS, it is therefore the individual municipality applying for a derogation, not KS. An application then applies to each striker for one day. It's not like that in the NHO area. It's another system. Is the Council of State saying that, among other things, Based on the experience of the year, is there a need to look at the rules for exemption from strike in the municipal sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e359	As also stated in the proposal concerning the labour conflict between KS and UNIO in the KS area, in some cases the nature of the derogation is defined in contractual agreements between the parties. That is the case with the KS-Union. They have protocols, that is, rules to say it a little bit simple, on this. It is quite correct that it is not KS central that applies for exemptions, but it is KS central that is the central negotiating party. Of course, we have to bear in mind that when KS, as the central negotiating party, clearly states that after having been refused exemptions only a short time before, there will be no further dispensations, then this applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e366	I see that the Minister of Health is also in the Chamber. This is a question that is also relevant to that Council of States. In the district of Nordre Aker, 14 out of 30 nurses in the home community were on strike. It's sacrilege, according to the Norwegian nurses' union. That was the basis for the Health Authority to say that there was a danger to life and health. That's very interesting, because it might well show that when the government embraces the Health Authority's assessment, the government has dimed seen a standard for staffing, a basic crew. Has the government taken the consequence of its position on forced payroll on this basis – that a dimed must introduce a basic crew in order to sustain life and health?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e375	The question, as it is formulated, is really a question for the Minister of Health. But I want to say something about the formal basis of this case. The State Health Authority is our independent oversight. The size has repeatedly placed very great emphasis on the professional recommendations of the State Health Authority in very serious cases. This is also true in these cases. It is not true that if an employer, or a municipality – it is not the employers – says that they feel there is a risk to life and health, then the State Health Authority will sign it up. No, they make their own professional assessments. The assessment relating to the conflict in the Municipality of Oslo, in which the other party of the representative is and controls, is publicly available, can be read. It is not exactly a sacred staff, it is an overall assessment of the Health Authority. We're basing our professional assessment. And I would strongly warn against politicizing professional judgements, perhaps especially in such serious matters as this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e382	The basis for pay here in Oslo is disputed by the employee, who points out that there was a weekend staff in the home service that was the basis for an acute danger to life and health. It says something interesting – whether about the manning situation in the home service in Oslo municipality and other municipalities or that it might not be so waterproof. In any case, the reaction from the workers' side is that they have no opportunity whatsoever to make representations on the professional assessment of whether there is a risk to life and health. Those who are closest to patients every day, who ensure life and health every day of the year, have no chance at all to make any input into this assessment. Red Isaac has said that he is willing to look at the system, review it. But the right has voted against Red's proposal for a review of the exact use of forced payroll and lockout in order not to undermine the striker's rights. Why is Røe Isaksen open to an assessment, while his party votes against such a review here in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e389	Now it was well justified why we voted against that proposal, but I can repeat some of it now. Firstly, it is strange in the tripartite cooperation that Norway has, to mention lockout, which is the instrument for the employer’s side, and not strike. The two things are connected. The second is that the whole core of the Norwegian social model is that the parties have extensive responsibilities. The fact that Red wants to cut it short by making it primarily political processes, even if added to ‘in cooperation with the parties’, helps to shift the centre of gravity away from the social partners – trade unions and employers’ organisations – and to policy and law and regulation. That's exactly what we're warning against when it comes to e.g. The demand for minimum wages, which many people want in Europe: it does not fit with the Norwegian system, it polices, does something that has been well managed by the parties in Norway, by law. I just want to encourage you again to read the Health Authority's assessment, which is now fully public. It is their professional, independent assessment,
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e401	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e408	It was a very interesting exchange of lines we were witnessing here now. To politicise – this is, of course, a major policy. The Health Authority has only made a cool, professional assessment of the condition. If the government has now come to the point that they have equipped the municipalities with such poor advice that the holy crew is actually a danger to life and health, we are in a very serious situation. Then I will encourage the Minister of Health to ask the Health Inspectorate to take much more checks around the country. This illustrates the basis for the whole strike. Both teachers, nurses and many other public sector groups organised under the UN are concerned about the welfare state's future. They see that the way it is financed, the lack of pay, too few colleagues and the worsening of pay and working conditions on their part are a danger to the basis of well-being. This is a warning we have to take seriously. When the government takes the step of recommending the Storting to adopt a law on compulsory payroll on that basis, a strike right is taken from many – in the KS area, 137 000 were covered by this, and also many in Oslo. Here the government manufactures it as if they had no choice, and thus pushes the responsibility in all other directions, for employees or for employers. But the government obviously had a choice. A potential employer applies for a derogation if necessary. This has been our practice for a long time. Once we've been criticized by the ILO for our strike resolution system, the government should go more than far to make sure he can continue. A could override DSB's fire risk assessment. Two hours before, a derogation was granted – two hours before a step was taken to introduce a forced payroll and suggested it. Strike is a decisive means of power. Without strike, the basis for trade unions is gone. When one weakens the striker's rights, one also weakens the power he has represented in the Norwegian community, which has been entirely decisive for the welfare state as we know it. With strike as an instrument, we have set up a pension scheme, reduced working hours, five weeks' vacation, parental leave, education for everyone, overtime pay and sick pay, to mention something. It's good we all have good news. They are at risk, and SV cannot accept the basis on which the government asks the Stortingen to introduce the compulsory payroll law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e419	It is true, as the President pointed out, it was not a proposal, but the Committee's recommendation (B) I referred to and recommended. Unfortunately, it does not have a majority. It is very clear that the right side refuses to participate in strengthening the organisation and strike rights, but it does not hold true when the right side uses arguments that the ILO is already committed to Norway. For the government, every crossroad shows that it is not correct. The Council of State has not followed up the ILO recommendations to have a dialogue with the parties, to ensure a real strike. It was started under Anniken Hauglie. So far, no world thing has happened. Now the Council of State says he will take care of it, but it is only announced that he has added a small additional point during a meeting that was planned a long time ago about something quite different. So it's not very obligating. The second is that the government writes in the propositions underlying this, that if it is against international commitments, it is nevertheless right, according to the government, to go to forced pay. This shows that the ILO does not have the weight under Norwegian law and practice that it should have had. The Council of State, on the right, may not see that there is a difference between whether the ILO gives the government a taste of its fingers, and whether organisations can actually bring the matter before Norwegian law to assess the professional basis of a compulsory payroll. Or maybe they're just seeing it, and so don't they want the strike through it really to be strengthened? So a response to the Moxnes, which refers to a proposal we discussed last week, which will really lead to the sting opposite of what the Moxnes and Red claim they want. They even try to push LO in front of them, but they haven't spoken to LO. We have. LO said: Please, do not support the Red proposal, because it will short-term legal means of power that both employers and employees have. It goes into the series of proposals we have seen in the last six months, which will threaten organisations and threaten Norwegian wage formation. We have had proposals in the Storting on national minimum wages, we have had proposals to legislate on the content of the main agreement and which will make it completely unimportant whether people are organized or not, we have had suggestions on who and which professional groups deserve higher wages, and who does not. And now SV and Red call for the Storting to review professional institutions' assessments relating to the issues of forced pay, despite the fact that both parties said there was a risk to life and health at the time, and despite the fact that none of the parties have contacted the committee on defects or deficiencies in the proposition. It shows lots that are on completely wild roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e432	Here, Grande from the Workers' Party confirms what was, I think, Martin Tranæl's famous words: weak argument – up in intensity. We saw a good example of this in the previous contributions from the Grande, because now two major strikes in the public sector are stopped on a syllable basis that is disputed by the employee side. The strike rate for nurses, kindergarten workers and teachers is, in fact, very low. It should worry a working party. We have asked for a review of the use of compulsory pay terms to avoid it being used to undermine the striker's rights. That such a review, at least according to the Workers' Party, directly intervenes in the party relationship, is with respect to stating that it is not true, in order to use a correct term here in the hall. What is intervened, however, is when the government stops sound strikes with forced pay in such a way that these important groups of workers have no strike right at all. A review of this, to look at the use of forced pay, is not a political overarching of the parties, but to facilitate that one party is not just being overrun and deprived of its fundamental strikeright, as we see in Norway during these weeks of 2021. The working party instead goes with the bourgeois, sticks its head in the sand and refuses to see the need for such a review. I know what someone in the LO has said about the proposal, but I said that the LO-organised and the UNI-organised should notice which parties take seriously what is happening with the strike rights for public sector employees, and who want to change the system, so that the strike rights are not undermined, just to ensure that the largest party here, namely the employees, hundreds of thousands of employees, can actually fight to raise their wages and secure recruitment – the basis for the whole 100-year struggle of the trade union movement. That's what's being undermined. We want a review to ensure that the state, by the government, does not intervene in such a way that this striker's rights are undermined. This talk, which also includes the Red Isaac, that Red's proposal is to move power away from the parties and to the Storting, is not correct. That power has increased the government, including the red-green government, and it is used by forced payroll. Instead, we want to ensure that employees have a real strike right, including in the public sector. It should be a working party able to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e445	What the radical left in many ways is at issue in this debate is potentially dangerous. For all practical purposes, when the representative Knag Fylkesnes calls on the government to follow the professional judgements made by the Health Authority and the DSB, it means that, in the strictest sense, this type of assessment should be removed from the competent professionals on the desks of the departments. Forced payroll should only be used in cases where life and health are at risk. A politicisation of that assessment could be life and health. It's ominous that representatives such as Knag Fylkesnes, with central offices in a party that takes the aim of sitting in government, actually don't reflect on it at all. In the eagerness to talk people out of their mouths and appear to be the most professional union-friendly, he goes solidly into traps and takes on a policy that wouldn't stand for two seconds if he were in practice to be followed. For this reason, I want to use this opportunity to do something as rare as giving credit to the Workers' Party, which actually appears to be neat and eager to endure what we're all concerned with, that wage formation takes place between the social partners, and that we don't use the compulsory pay term unnecessarily, but that we have it as a means of working when life and health are potentially put at risk. It has been, and must still be, a professional assessment made by people who have the competence to do so, not an assessment that has been moved into the ministry, as the Swedish authorities are calling for. It shows why a large number of people on the Stortinget join a policy that stands out over time, not a policy that is primarily capable of making some headlines close before the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e454	I thought I would answer some of the points that have come, or at least comment on them. First, to the State Health Authority and the claim that it is sacred staff alone who do this, as the representative Knag Fylkesnes came along. Again, when it comes to strikes, the State’s health authorities are rigging to be able to make ongoing assessments. I just want to stress that it is not that if the municipality reports what they describe as a danger to life and health, then the State Health Authority says it is okay. It often happens — at least — that the State Health Authority disagrees with that assessment and has a different assessment, i.e. that they make an independent, professional assessment. I would once again encourage you to read the message. The State Health Authority sends daily reports received by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. They are public – for those who ask to see them after the conflict is over and forced to pay off. I would also like to say that the State Health Authority on its websites has a large red button that says that you can notify about serious incidents. It is important — and this is certainly something the Minister of Health could not recognize — to notify the State Health Authority of serious situations that are not in line with the legislation and that endanger life and health. It is also said that we should make a professional assessment of the danger to life and health and go beyond the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness Assessments, but the DSB is – in addition to the municipal fire service, which is responsible for its legislation and legislation municipally – our professional body to make those assessments. I understand the recording, and it is worth thinking about: Could you not contact the parties in advance to clarify whether there was a danger to life and health? The problem is that there is no negotiated situation as to whether there is a risk to life and health; it has to be a professional assessment. I believe that one of the issues in the discussion with the parties is whether we are sure that all the facts are on the table, but there is a good flow of information in our system as well. So the representative, Knag Fylkesnes, said that as a government council, I could only ask the employer to apply for the necessary exemptions. So I can encourage the parties to find a solution, but exactly what the representative describes there would be to intervene in a labour conflict. You can imagine the opposite, for example. a government council had asked a trade union to grant exemptions because a company had a weak profitability or marked the consequences of the strike. That would have been unheard of. Finally, the process associated with the ILO and its follow-up is under way. But it's probably also that part of the proposals that ILO made, not necessarily any parties will, because strike and minimum crews are not necessarily related.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e471	I record that SV criticises the government for having listened more to the employer’s side and does not trust the employees. I would rather perhaps turn it around, because I have every confidence that the employee side was willing to grant exemptions when the matter had first escalated. At the same time, I must have confidence in the professional assessments from the local government, the fire department and the DSB as independent supervisory authorities, which obviously does not. I just want to refer to the proposition, where it says that the shift manager and two operators were taken out on strike from the same shift, so that Frevar was standing without crew in the control room. They had applied for a derogation in order to be able to man with at least one person. It was previously rejected several times, and the complaint was rejected. This means that once you have escalated the situation to where the employee side is willing to grant a derogation, it may have gone too far. There is no longer enough one dispensation for one person. There are several things that need to be done. So two words about holy men. It is fully possible to organise a service so that the main activity takes place at daytime, during normal working hours, and to facilitate supervision and follow-up to evening and weekend hours with a different type of crew. This means proper manning throughout the week, but not necessarily that you can drive the whole week with holy staff. There must be a basic understanding of the ability to organise public services in Norway in a good way, so that resources are used correctly. Societal and interested parties, as I have said before, must initially tolerate the disadvantages that labour struggles bring, but if labour struggles lead to a risk to life and health, it is unfortunately necessary to intervene. It is natural that conflicts arise in the labour market. There are different interests facing each other, but as represented by Dale, this case is not about supporting pay claims, but about listening to the professional assessments of independent supervisory authorities. There is no reason to believe that this is used to undermine the strike rights in Norway, and it is a pity that SV and – perhaps not surprisingly – Red do not trust the professional authorities and politicise this basis. That's what undermines the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e484	The keyword to the Council of State is fact. All the facts on the table are at the heart of this. When you have a power that is as intrusive as forced payroll, you also have to make sure that the processes go right, and that all the facts come on the table. So when notice comes, what is the responsibility of the government? Is the council, and is the whole assembly here, comfortable with the fact that it was only employers who were given the opportunity to comment on whether there was a danger to life and health, and not workers? Is it comfortable with such a type of situation – i.e. where the competence is only from those on the employer's side, while the employee's side does not have the possibility of either objecting or bringing up his assessment of the case? That professional authorities have done their job, SV does not hesitate to be deleted. They've done a thorough job, but that's the government's further management of what's the problem. Why does the government not ensure that the employee page is involved? There we are at the heart of this question. That's where the beginning of the weakening of the striker starts, when one is not willing to listen to that party. I take it quite easily when the Progress Party criticises SV in this kind of question. Historically, the right side is against strike. They have opposed all welfare reforms. They don't think there should be any basis for building up the unions, as we know them today. They are, on the contrary, the basis of the Norwegian model. So then one hides behind this and hints when they criticize the parties that want to fence around the striker, and view it as a decisive tool to develop society as we know it. It would be interesting to say to the right government that the impact of the employees, the possibility of being heard in this matter. It would be interesting to right an assessment of it, because it's the Council of State jumping by gallantly in all its posts today. It is also interesting to take into account the political consequences of the way this conflict was resolved, that sainting can actually be a danger to life and health, and that it should have consequences for basic manning in general and the way in which one finances public welfare – where the right side has cut and cut and cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e499	The representative Bears Moxnes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e504	I am not sure how happy the Workers' Party will be for the embrace of the Progress Party, but it is interesting that the Advance Party commends the Workers' Party for their actions in this matter. But the Progress Party has something where they might have to die at their own door, because it is said here by the representatives of the Progress Party that this gives cause for reflection for those who run the KS. There is Terje Søviknes, who sits on KS's main board. The Progress Party has promised health professionals and nurses a paylift in our – big promises from their national meeting – but is therefore not a finger on the KS Board to meet the legitimate demands of the strikers, which is what can ensure a paylift. And in RNB, there's zero and nothing -- no money, no dollars -- that can raise the salary of employees in welfare. So this shows a party that just bluffs the employees in the welfare with empty promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e511	The President will recommend that representatives use words other than ‘bluff’ to define each other’s political messages.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e517	It has been interesting to hear this debate, and to me it is a reminder of what I experienced in the 1970s. Because I'm high school Andersen. I went to Larvik Gymnas in the years of the book «Gymnas teacher Pedersen's report on the great political revival that has haunted our country» was written, and I recognize the ACP from that time on. I know them especially because I immediately started at the melting plant in Larvik and had them the people in the club management. What was a repetition at the time among many sea-proletarian, well-educated people – who found out that they had to go down to the workers because they couldn't take care of themselves – was that they told what was best for the workers, because they didn't realize that. When I am reminded of it now, it is based on Arild Grande's thorough and good review of the rules of the Norwegian labour market, where the free role of the parties in the formation of wages is so crucial. That's what Red is now criticizing the Workers' Party for our neatness. Because, as far as the proposal by Mr Moxnes is concerned, on a review, the representatives of the workers do not want that proposal. And why? Because they see that the fine system in the Norwegian model makes sense, that we respect the fact that wage formation is a relationship between the employer and the employee. So it is that I also had a payroll, the council knows that I have said in a direct conversation with him, but I understand that it is Unio who is the negotiator. I think we should have a high threshold to use compulsory pay, but it must be based on professional and objective criteria. I can also believe that there are some who I think deserve better pay, but it is not my role as a growth representative to believe and adopt anything about it, because I am concerned with the Norwegian model, which has served this country so well, and where the free formation of wages and the free parties is absolutely crucial. That is why I have criticized the government several times during this period to attack the Norwegian model – with increased differences, less influence on employees, etc. – but it is sad to see that one who claims to know better than the workers even what the workers are doing is also involved in undermining one of the main elements of the Norwegian model, the free role of the parties in the formation of wages.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e526	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e543	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e548	The government has reduced a sample to review all issues of state administrators, state health surveillance and state health professionals’ topic of abuse committed by health professionals against patients in the period 2010-2020. The selection shall also review the Varhaug case to see which learning points can be subtracted from that case with regard to current practice. That review shall include contact with victims who are willing to comment. The aim is to point out any failure and to examine whether there are common features in the cases that may indicate a system failure. However, it is not within the remit of the panel to decide on criminal matters or compensation. It is essential that the sample is able to obtain the necessary information from the relevant public authorities, their employees and former employees. The committee needs the transparency of personal data which are also subject to professional secrecy, and also believes that the proposal in the bill is absolutely necessary to ensure it. The aim is to ensure that the sample has access to information necessary for the selection to carry out its work under the mandate. It also means that we grant exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy and the obligation to provide the appointed sample with the necessary information. An overall committee shall also require the retention of the requirements of the standards of protection and that no more personal data is collected than is necessary and relevant to the achievement of the objective. The personal data collected shall be protected in line with the applicable laws. The members of the committee are, of course, bound by the administrative law to observe professional secrecy, but should also be subject to more stringent professional secrecy if the selection receives information which goes beyond the obligation of professional secrecy under the administrative law. It is also clarified that the obligation of professional secrecy for the members of the sample and others who have performed the service or work for the sample will apply even after the law we adopt ceases to work. Finally, I would like to mention that the Committee refers to the fact that Minister of Health Bent Höie in VG on 12 May this year made a complaint on behalf of the health services of victims and relatives in the Varhaug case for what they have been exposed to. The Committee is pleased that that complaint was raised and is behind it. The Committee considers that the system failure now needs to be reviewed in order to ensure that something similar does not happen again and that the wrongs committed are corrected. Norwegian patients need to be confident that treatment providers do not engage in abuse and that everyone should have confidence in healthcare professionals in the Norwegian healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e561	I would like to join the rapporteur's words in this matter. It is a unanimous committee that is in favour of this, where a critical searchlight has been addressed to the authorities' handling of cases of abuse of patients committed by healthcare professionals. In the Varhaug case, the psychologist committed several patients over a period of three decades – we have read about this in VG’s coverage of it – and caused them great and, in part, irreparable damage. We're referring to the Department of Proposition writing: ‘The Varhaug case is a very serious case, in which the overall system has been shortened to prevent, react, intervene and prevent further harmful behaviour by a healthcare professional even after the health professionals have been deprived of their authorisation.’ This is a serious emphasis, as the Ministry also points out in the proposition, and we support the description of it. Today, it is incomprehensible that the abuses could continue for so many years, and we note that this has led to suffering in many vulnerable patients and their relatives. We therefore conclude that there is now a sample to review such issues from 2010 to 2020, and review this particular matter in particular to learn and ensure that we do not get into the same situation again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e575	The government has set up a sample to review and assess the handling of cases by the county councillors, now the state health authorities, and the state health workforce department dealing with abuses committed by health professionals against patients in the period 2010-2020. The committee is also given a mandate to review the Varhaug case to see which learning points can be subtracted from this case with regard to current practice. This review shall include contact with victims who are willing to comment. In the bill in the bill, the purpose of the law is to ensure the choice of access to information necessary for the performance of their duties under the mandate. The legislative proposal has been tightened up after consultation so as to limit the bodies and persons required to provide information to the sample. The central party supports the legislative proposal and the framework, and we assume that the processing of personal data is in line with the EU Data Protection Regulation. The committee is bound by professional secrecy and information received by the sample cannot be used in criminal proceedings at a later stage. The case that is the starting point, the Varhaug case, is very serious. It is about the victims and their relatives, but also about the whole trust in health care. How could it happen that the psychologist could practice for three decades without being stopped? The centre party has been committed to the fact that the Varhaug case should be examined. You need to know the extent of the case, and after VG's screening several new victims have signed up. We said early that the victims and their relatives should get an apology, which they have now received from Minister of Health Bent Höie on behalf of the Health Service. You have to learn from the case to make sure that similar things can never happen again. The representative Kjersti Toppe raised the matter in a written question on 10 May this year, and then went into the matter thoroughly. The question is how this could happen in public health. The centre party is pleased that an expert group has now been set up to review the Varhaug case, as the centre party had proposed, and that the victims have received a public complaint from the council.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e588	SV supports the case. I just need some comments. It goes without saying that such cases often take a long time. I think those who are now going to examine this, and all of us who have political responsibility in different areas, and also those who have professional responsibility in different areas, need to be more aware of the power imbalance between professionals and patients/users. Because there are some structures that are developing to suit each other and their colleagues. I also think it's very difficult for someone who's seen something wrong, but hasn't told me about it in a long time, to say it when it's been a long time, precisely because then you've known it for a long time and you haven't done anything. There is also a very power imbalance between the public and the individual. I don't think this is particularly for the health service, I think it's about a lot of the public sector, so it's about being aware of it. But it is clear that there is a particular vulnerability in the health sector, for example, in child protection, with all the cases where the individual comes into a situation where there is a need for help. I need to say this. This sample should not take a decision on punishments or reactions or such things, but we have to go through it as well. The main thing here must be to prevent this from happening, but I also think that there must be some responses for those who use their position to commit assaults on defenceless people, and that it must also be seen in the future. Because I'm not sure that in itself it's preventive, but I know how important it is for people who have been exposed to such things, that whoever has done it gets a reaction, because it places blame and responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e599	I think the representative Andersen points to something very important when she mentions the relationship between treatment and treatment and the sense of abstinence that can occasionally arise in situations where people are subjected to abuse. It is quite clear that there needs to be an important theme for the sample. The Varhaug case is very outrageous, but I think it is important from this pulpit to give honor to the press to have addressed this question, and especially to the VG. For this matter has been covered in a very exemplary way, and it shows the importance of having investigative journalism at a high level. We can all learn something from that. Now we're not going to pass any judgment from this pulpit, but I think there's still reason to point out that the transition from public and into private practice and the ethical vacuum that has followed the transition in this case is especially 'incomprehensible' to use the word of the representative Kjerkol. It is clear from the proposition that privacy should be taken particularly seriously, and I am very pleased about that. I'm glad that the proposition takes account of this. Then there is a security in our political system that the government has turned around as quickly as it has done in this matter, and I look forward to the further work on the sample and hope that I can get back to this matter on this platform at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e610	The aim of the law currently under consideration by the Storting is to ensure access to information and a legal basis for the sample to investigate cases where healthcare professionals have committed abuses against patients in the last 10 years. The work of the committee is very important. Patients must be safe to deal with healthcare, and we must do what we can to prevent health abuse and to detect abuse as quickly as possible. This is why it is important for the sample to go through these oversight cases thoroughly and to see if there is anything we can learn from what has happened. We need to look critically at current practices and legislation and assess whether there is something that needs to be changed. In order to enable the sample to do so, it is essential that they have access to the necessary and relevant information, including information related to confidentiality, and that the sample is authorised to process health and other personal data. The information gathered by the sample can be sensitive. The committee must therefore ensure that the requirements are properly complied with in accordance with the standards of protection. In particular, no more information than is necessary must be obtained and the information collected must be protected. I am pleased that the committee joins the bill, and I am also grateful that the committee has turned around quickly in this matter and has accepted to deal with a matter which the government legally promoted late for the Stortinget. But it also allows the sample to get started more quickly on its important and necessary work. These changes are absolutely necessary for the selection to carry out its mission. In conclusion, I just want to repeat my apology to the victims and their relatives in the Varhaug case for what they have experienced, and for our overall system not being able to stop the attacks even after the first attacks were discovered.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e631	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e648	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 30 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Environmental Party Green 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows will be given with replies from the main players of the game and up to six rows with replies from members of the government. Those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e659	First, I would like to thank the Committee and the Committee Secretariat for their good cooperation on this matter. The municipal bill provides important guidance for the government budget for the autumn and gives municipalities and county councils the necessary signals on the framework within which they can base their budgetary work. Here many premises for everyday life are put to people. Schools, health, kindergartens, care for the elderly and public transport are services that they all rely on, most of them depend on in everyday life. The main assumption for the municipal economy next year is that municipalities and county municipalities for the current year, but also for the next year, are compensated for lost income and increased expenditure related to the corona situation. In the last year, the Storting has adopted a number of compensation schemes and cyclical measures. The last package for Kommune-Norway will be dealt with in the revised national budget on Friday. These measures have not been part of the municipal budget for the next year, but they are nevertheless a crucial prerequisite for next year's municipal budgets. I would like to stress that it is absolutely necessary for Kommune-Norway to be given a clear assurance that they will receive 100 pst. the coverage also of any new costs that will be incurred in excess of the year and, where appropriate, in respect of 2022. It is essential to ensure that municipalities do not pull the emergency brake now, that they stop planned projects, or that they have to cut the service provision. So far, it looks like they're compensated. I am impressed by the flexibility and the power of action employed in Norwegian municipalities have shown in the handling of the Corona situation, and I am impressed by how the challenges have been addressed. A great thank you to all who have been on and still on in Kommune-Norway now in connection with this pandemic. In the municipal bill for 2022, the government signals that it is adding up to a real growth in free income for the municipal sector of between 2 billion. kr and 2,4 brd. NOK 2022, by 400 million. kr to counties. The Government proposes that the growth of income according to normal practice is to be counted from the estimated growth of income in 2020 in the revised national budget, but shall also be corrected for the effects of the outbreak. The estimate of taxes on income and wealth in 2021 is adjusted by 3.2 billion. kr compared to the balance of the budget. The central party believes that the government's financial arrangements for the municipal sector for the next year are too bad once again. An important indicator of how good the municipal economy is is net operating surplus. There are considerable differences between municipalities, but in 2019 the municipalities were combined under the recommendations of the Technical Calculation Committee for Municipal Economics. We believe that the figures for 2019 are the most relevant to look at, as 2020 was an exceptional year with large additional appropriations and greater variation in income and expenditure than in a normal year. Although the local government sector has been compensated for its additional and minor revenues in 2020 and so far in 2021, it will be a day when the pandemic is over and we will look forward to it. If the government is going to continue as before the pandemic, the local government sector is going to meet a few extremely tough years. The municipal economy has been significantly weakened in recent years, especially in the period 2016–2019. More and more small and medium-sized municipalities have long been struggling with negative results, but also larger municipalities have begun to get red figures. 43 pst. of the municipalities had a negative operating result in 2019. It's worrying. Extraordinary tax revenue in addition to the assumptions in government budgets, including: as a result of tax adjustments and lower pension and demographic costs, the main reason is that economic performance has not been so bad after all. It's not because of the government's framework, but despite that. In addition, changes in the income system in recent years have led to a significant redistribution within the framework. The largest municipal authorities have won, and small and medium-sized municipalities have lost. The debt growth has increased from an average of 21 pst. revenue from the period 2002-2008 to 48 pst. in 2019. I'm very concerned about this development, and it obviously cannot continue. The funding of resource-requiring services has been a repetition of the discussions around the municipal propositions. The objective of the Top Funding Scheme for Resource-Required Services is to facilitate the provision of a good service to beneficiaries requiring a comprehensive health service by municipalities. It compensates municipalities with resource-intensive services for 80 pst. of net wage and salary costs over an entry point of 1.43 million. kr per consignee in 2021. The point of impact was 1.157 million. kr per consignee in 2017 and DKK 975000 per consignee in 2013. The municipalities are left with more and more of the bill. The increase in the entry point that we have seen under this government has helped to weaken many municipalities financially. The centre party is positive that a system is now being proposed to ensure better the municipalities that have less than 3,200 inhabitants but that have exceptional expenditure. There is also a challenge for some municipalities with over 3,200 inhabitants, which have abnormally high costs of resource-intensive services. It has to be taken care of. The centre party believes that the property tax is, at this stage, a necessary evil. There are only 107 municipalities that do not print property taxes on the dwelling, while 113 municipalities do not print property taxes on the dwelling. This shows that the property tax is now absolutely necessary to make the economy go around. In the long term, the centre party would like to look at the possibility of e.g.: to replace the property tax with a freer taxpayer, but first and foremost we must ensure that the municipalities receive an economy that finances the tasks they are assigned to them. The approach shows that the parties have common objectives for the local government sector in many areas, but there are clear differences that show that it has a meaning who governs the country. This applies both to the financial framework within which the municipal sector must work and to the governance framework between the State and the municipal sector. In many areas, there are huge differences between the parties, and I'm assuming that the parties themselves will explain their positions. The centre party will build society from below and will therefore spread power, residence, jobs, capital and competences. We want people to have the opportunity to live where they want to. We want a trust reform with authority and responsibility close to people and listening to teachers, health professionals and policemen. Those are the ones who know where the shoe prints. By shifting the public sector towards more trust-based governance, we get better solutions. We decentralize tasks and simplify and slim down bureaucracy. The development of the municipal sector is important in order to maintain scattered housing and to vary business life across the country. Unfortunately, governments do not share these objectives and policies lead to increasing centralisation. The Central Party proposes to increase the local government framework by 3 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. Of these, at least 700 million. kr go to the counties. This is absolutely necessary in order for the local government sector to provide the services it is required to provide. The centre party believes that strong efforts are needed on the county roads in Norway. These are roads that are very important to people and businesses throughout the country. A total of 4 billion is proposed in the Alternative NTP of the Centre Party. in addition to the government's proposal for the county road. The Centre Party supports the KS consultation call, which requests that the grant scheme should not be application-based and that the allocation should be based on known allocation keys. The centre party will examine the economy of the county in a later article. In the municipal bill of 2022, the government signals that it is adding 2 to 2,4 billion. kr. The Technical Calculation Committee has carried out a calculation showing that the local government sector receives additional expenditure of about 1,2 billion. kr related to the development of demography. So the growth is eaten up by the development of demography. In addition, there is an estimated increase in pension costs of 600 million. kr. In recent years, the size and government have given the municipalities more and more tasks and standards, including: max. number, student per teacher, pedagogical norm for kindergartens, etc. This is not fully funded, and it commits significant funds that need to be saved in other areas. KS has calculated that there is a missing 1 billion. kr to complete the child care reform, just to mention something. The reality is that the government requires municipalities to solve more tasks within a reduced framework. The centre party believes it is wrong policy to starve the municipal sector. It simply means poorer services for the inhabitants. When new requirements for municipalities, such as manning and pedagogical standards, are to be met within the existing framework, other sectors are affected. Since the care sector is the largest in municipalities, it is the elderly who have to pay the bill through a lower offer. I would like briefly to comment on some of the discussion about the recommendation VI. The centre party supports the proposal on the so-called cab tax, but we mainly support our own loose proposal, which addresses a broader issue than only healthcare outside the municipality of residence. We believe that changes in the income system should take place through an overall review, as everything affects everything. Finally, I would like to address the proposal of the Centre Party and the proposals we have with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e710	The representative Heidi Greni has drawn up the proposals she made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e717	The year we've been behind us has proved to be demanding, but it has also shown us the different consequences of increased flexibility in digital solutions. And when the office moves home, someone also moves their home to a cabin. Still increasing use of leisure facilities is not new, but it has escalated sharply under covid. These part-time residents provide increased activity and good income for the host municipalities, but at the same time it poses problems when the health system is not enumerated for high indentation. So I wonder, is the Senterpartie agree that the income system has to facilitate people to live where they want to live, whether it's built or in town?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e722	Of course, the Center Party agrees. It's one of our main slogans. As far as the so-called cab tax is concerned, I concluded my post by saying that I am going to support the Roman number decision where the government parties and the Progress Party propose that it be part of the mandate of the income committee. At the same time, the Center Party believes that we need to look at solutions other than exactly what the Advance Party, at least, has sketched in the media. That device is not safe to use, e.g. whether there should be a limit on the amount of expenses to be incurred before you start billing, etc. I imagine that if medical visits and such things are to be billed, there will be a huge bureaucracy, and if there are leisure residents who live in the cabin half a year, and who may also need a lot of home care, i.e. day-to-day care, weekly care, etc., it is a huge challenge for many municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e729	Thanks for the answer. It seems to me that the Center Party is drifting here and sees this need. Because there's one thing that's safe, it's just that society is in continuous development. Digital developments change how we work, and they may also change the way we want to live. In the Right we're occupied with just that; we're concerned that people will be allowed to live and work in the whole country. The majority in the Committee have just pointed out that one needs to see more closely about the income system. But when it comes to digital development, the Center Party is very often suspended in what concerns pure fiber, rather than the total digital infrastructure. What does it do?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e734	The centre party is concerned that everyone should be able to participate in the same line, also digitally. For us, it's not the most important thing whether it's fiber or 5G, but what's relevant to building out in District Norway where they don't have fiber or 5G, it's fiber. And the 5G expansion will, like everything else, start in town – and then it goes both 5, 10 and 15 years before District Norway gets to be part of it. So if we're going to have a settlement across the country, which we're very concerned about, we actually have to make sure that one has access, a satisfactory access, across the country, and a high-speed broadband, which also allows business to establish itself. Because what is the challenge of getting new jobs around in District Norway is that some places are not mobile coverage, and very many places are not enough access to fibre capacity to actually put their workplace there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e739	I'm going to ask you something that I and certainly a lot of people are wondering about, especially those in the red-green municipalities that have received our property tax bill and paid several thousand kroner. Because they own a dwelling or own a dwelling together with the bank, they get an extra bill in the mail from their municipality. They have well recorded that the bill is as high and much higher now, despite the fact that the Storting has reduced the number of municipalities, from 7 per million to 4. It's never been said from the red-green parties, which one of the polls might suspect might make a useful choice, and then they can come in position. So I'm very curious about, like, all of the inhabitants: would the government of which the Central Party might be a part increase its operating space to go from 4 per million to 7 per million again, or does a large majority accept its level of 4 per million? Is it an increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e746	The centre party will primarily increase the action space of the municipalities by increasing the framework of the municipalities from the hunger level we have had in the last eight years, and up to a level that allows municipalities to perform the statutory services without being forced to impose property taxes, without being forced to reduce them, for example. care for the elderly or whatever it might be. I am not a follower of property taxes. No one is. It's something they introduce in distress and not out of desire in all, most of the municipalities. I also see that there are many Spring Party municipalities which have even introduced property taxes in the last period, and which have had it all the time, nor have they removed it. With regard to the proposal of the Progress Party to set a ceiling of NOK 3000, which has been promoted in the media, it is a relatively unsocial proposal. Then it's those who earn the most, who save the most on the property tax. It's those who have the highest income, who have the largest housing, so at least it's not a proposal that's for the best for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e755	The centre party and SV very much agree that we need to reverse policy developments now and get a much stronger district policy. Then the local economy is very important, but also what is involved in digital infrastructure. Then it could be both broadband and 5G, but what we know is that if areas don't get it, they get disconnected by evolution. That is why there is now a report that shows that if, in four years – and four years is long in digital development – we are going to target everyone getting this, we will have to put a billion on the table every year. It has submitted it to the local authority, for now they are going from Stortinget to the county municipalities. But I can't see that there's any particular trace of this in the Central Party setup. That's $600 million. kr for the counties. It's barely halfway to this, and you might also need some money for the county roads. How is the Central Party going to finance this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e763	The centre party fully agrees with the entrance to this. Making sure there's broadband or 5G around the country is a prerequisite for us to develop the whole country. We have mentioned our strengthening in the transport committee, because that is where broadband has been located in the past. In our alternative budget for the current year, we have a strong commitment to, among other things. broadband. We fully agree that large parts of the county's investment beyond what is reserved for county roads must go to broadband, and we fully agree that broadband is crucial for district policy. In addition, there is another issue that is absolutely crucial for people to be able to live throughout the country, and that is that we open up more scattered housing around the district of Norway. These are the two things my municipalities report that is the most important thing to get people to move back and get jobs around the country. That's going to have to be a little bit more thoughtful.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e770	One of the most important countermeasures we have to put back on centralisation forces that drag people and jobs to cities is strong municipalities and local politicians with a wide range of powers and resources. For Left, a community approach is not an end in itself, but a tool for strengthening municipalities on behalf of the state, moving out tasks, jobs and resources. Instead of supporting the Left, the Centre Party has systematically chosen to criticise the municipal reform and cultivate the myth that if everything is what it has always been, decentralization will almost happen on its own – despite the fact that the opposite happened last time the Center Party was in government. Is the Central Party saying that municipalities that are large enough to carry out much more and greater governmental tasks than today are an important and necessary decentralisation tool?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e779	No, the Center Party agrees with the Norman Committee. Victor Norman said quite clearly at the time of the presentation of the selection's NOU that the merger of municipalities is not the solution to decentralize Norway, rather the opposite. He also claims that the municipal mergers that have occurred may have weakened the settlement in District Norway. There are not small district cities that are the solution, it is that municipalities develop their peculiarity and have the offer that citizens demand. And they're asking for something other than the city quality that's in Oslo. Small or large municipalities are not the question, it is the quality of services and the ability to provide services that are the most important. We know that if there's intermunicipal cooperation or if there's a community merger, the trade union environment is the same thing. If one joins Elverum and Trysil, the professional community in Trysil is exactly the same and the attractiveness is the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e786	The centre party builds up a expectation that everything will be reversed – there can be mention of county mergers, municipal mergers, county councillor districts. But to use a terminology that might be understood, I'm going to ask the representative, Mr. Greni, how easy is it to get back into the egg? Can we see that reversal has good societal effect, or does it not have effect at all? How forward-looking is it to talk about officers' offices with crews a few hours a day or a week, when today's crime scene suggests that police force is strengthened against crime committed online?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e793	Of course, it's forward-looking to make sure we're safe throughout the country. Of course, it is forward-looking to ensure that the inhabitants have the same rights, whether they live in a district municipality or live in the middle of Oslo. There has undoubtedly been a serious deterioration in the police force to the local police. There's something the police themselves say. The police department itself says that the near-police reform has weakened the entire police force in District Norway, and in part also in the cities because of that reorganisation. In my area, we had two lenghtsmen's office, one of which was closed and the other was to be strengthened. One had to be laid down, because we couldn't have a bilgeman's office that was up two days a week. Now we have one lumbarist office, which is two miles away, which has up every two days, and which has four positions less than the two had together before. This is not strengthening the police force in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e800	Then you'll have the cord shift over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e805	Municipalities are the first line in providing citizens with safety, education, roads, drinking water, sewerage, assistance in building applications, assistance for business development and health care of different kinds — ranging from midwife services to services at the end of life. The municipalities have a great responsibility for this. There are not a few tasks Stortinget, the government and the population expect municipalities to deliver on, every day of the year – and around the clock for many of the services. The expectations of good municipal services do not just come from the outside. As I know the local politicians, they also have great ambitions and great enthusiasm for their own municipality – their own community to distinguish themselves with the best services. I'll give a little tribute to our local politicians. Most of them are quite ordinary people who have taken on a popular mission that is not always as easy to solve, in both big and small decisions made by city and municipal governments and in our county. These peoples are in a way the root of our democracy, along with all those who work with an equal heart in countless local and regional voluntary teams and associations. As rapporteur, I have been close to volunteering and I have seen the difference they can make in a community, and that is not small. The truth is, if volunteering goes away, we're going to become a poor society, because we can't afford to pay off all the tasks of volunteering in our community. The voluntary teams and our associations are in many ways glued to a good community. For the Workers' Party, work, well-being and climate are fundamental issues. Municipalities have – and will have – an important role for all these three points – work, well-being and climate. In our opinion, we also need to give priority to providing the municipalities with a reasonable starting point in order to do what is expected. If we are to achieve the objective of equivalent services wherever you live in the country, municipalities must have a framework that actually gives them the opportunity to find good solutions, alone or in cooperation with one or more neighbouring municipalities. We believe that the government is adding to a far too weak financial arrangement for the municipal sector for 2022. They see an estimated growth in revenue — free income — between 2 billion. kr and 2,4 brd. kr, in which case this growth will cover additional demographic expenditure of SEK 0,9 billion. kr and increased pension costs, estimated at SEK 0,6 billion. kr. If we see the proposed increase in the context of the KS hearing, the action space for the municipalities of 2022 is not improved with the government's proposals. That is why we believe that the arrangement that the local government is going to get from the local government is too bad. This can be seen in the context, for example: 2020-2022, there is a significant deterioration in the ability of municipalities to provide good welfare services. Government frameworks do not increase the scope for action to invest in quality in important welfare areas. At least the government's framework does not meet the ambitions of the Workers' Party for good services in Kommune-Norway. Therefore, in this case, we propose to strengthen the municipal sector for 2022 by 3 billion. in addition to the government's proposals, in order to improve the quality of important welfare services for which children's home, school, elderly care, health services and other key services are the responsibility of municipalities and counties. There are difficult times for many – it has been and is still. The pandemic has crooked and made society more unfair. Almost one out of three unemployed people is under 30 years of age. Large parts of the lives of children and young people are waiting. There have been closed schools, home schooling, quarantine. This may have created considerable gaps in the knowledge of children and young people, and what can lead to increased knowledge-class distinctions must be sealed as quickly as possible. Municipalities must be given the opportunity to do a job with it. Therefore, a good, long-term and stable municipal economy is absolutely necessary. Unsafe disposable income does not create opportunities for long-term operation of municipalities, and that is precisely what is needed – good framework conditions over time, which enable operations to be both efficient and good. The fact that the municipalities have had some relatively good profits is really just a fluke and a result of the Ministry of Finance having miscalculated its estimates of taxes and pensions, as an example. In fact, if the government's estimate had flashed, the municipality of Norway would have been about 36 billion. kr poorer than they have actually proved to be, because the estimates have been incorrect. It was in the favour of the municipalities. The government's history of good and stable municipal economy is simply not correct, and the government itself describes it in terms of price, where they say they have made mistakes in estimates. It was in the favour of the municipalities, and we are all happy about that, of course, but long-term and stable control options do not provide such extras. Today, we have proposals for clarification of Korona accounts – if the municipalities have been paid for their expenses as promised. In general, it's said that it's like this, and there might be reason to assume that it is. But then we're told, for example. from the Municipality of Oslo, that they believe they've got 240 million. kr less in compensation than they really should have. That's why we believe that we need to use the State Manager to go through with the municipalities what it actually looks like, because we don't think that we should be allowed to hang. It is a little disappointing that the government parties and the Progress Party cannot join in and use the State administrators to review the municipalities. They know their municipalities well. There's no great job, and we would be able to remove some uncertainty about it, if you had a majority for that proposal. Finally, I should mention that we are now in great need of a comprehensive review of the income system for municipalities. We are looking forward to the reduced sample coming up with its recommendations and explanation of what it looks like. We see that a number of proposals are being made today from other parties on changes in municipal income or income opportunities. The working party is enough there that we believe we must have a complete treatment and should not treat this in a piece and in part. We think it's important that we get a comprehensive view of it, an overall review, and that we have a beneficial and fair income system that has a long-term in it, as mentioned earlier. This is an important prerequisite for our municipal politicians to plan their operations in a good way. With all the heavy tasks and expectations that both big business, government and others have for the municipalities, we owe them a real opportunity to rule well in their communities. Then I will deal with the proposal that the Labour Party is behind, and I will also give a brief explanation of vote for the loose proposals that have been put in. The Labour Party will support and vote for the loose proposal No. 27, concerning an extension of the mandate of the Committee on Income.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e826	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has drawn up the proposal of the Labour Party. It's ready for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e833	More than 129 municipalities have fewer than 3,000 inhabitants, little immigration and a growing proportion of the population of old age, outside the labour market. Current and future service requirements are increasing. The struggle for skilled labour will be tougher, and at least it is the right starting point that we need more robust units for the small district municipalities to hang out with. In view of this, it's not very uplifting to read the Workers' Party's comments, than to say the Workers' Party's programme for the next majority period, where you're more concerned with hanging on the Centre's reverse line than really making suggestions on how to solve the problems we're facing. The private sector is growing. We need a strong public sector to respond to the needs we have for growth. How will the Workers' Party meet this challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e840	I record that you only confirm that the Right will continue to wish for coercion of municipalities. It's very nice that we get it clear again. I also hear that the Right is always talking about skilled labour etc. If you merge two or three municipalities, there won't automatically be more teachers and nurses in that region than it was before. It is simply not right to build an assumption that just a few municipalities are merged, there will automatically be several nurses. That's not right. The Labour Party is a volunteer in the municipal sector. We've been doing that for years, and we keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e845	I guess the right has not been for some coercive line either. It's going to add up to us attitudes we don't have. It is not that, in the organisation of – let's say – building up planned competences, you get the same benefit from municipal cooperation that you would get if you had a larger unit. You have a completely different flexibility and a completely different ability to plan breadth and gain a better level of competence. We have also noticed that the Workers' Party's only prescription for this is more money. It's clear that more money can help too much, but it doesn't help to get people to move back to a job where manpower is small, or move back to a competence environment that doesn't provide prospects for good career planning. What does the Workers' Party think to do with this? Does the Workers' Party think you can buy out of this with money?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e855	Money isn't everything, there are diamonds too – isn't that what you said? The Norman Committee pointed to a small diamond: you have to enable the municipalities to have a community that makes it attractive to live there. If it's attractive to live there, the skills also come in, then people will move there. When the representative Thommess says that the Right does not stand for any coercive line, the short-term memory must be very poor. It has not been long since the Right sat in this room and coerced municipalities – and then I haven't even come to the coercion of the states, which has been a disaster. It has not followed with tasks, it has not followed with money. So the right has nothing to boast about, and at least they haven't gone for the volunteer line. They have voted on several occasions, in many votes here in the Grand Duchy, especially on the coup d'états, for coercion, and I think that the representative Thommessen and the Right really should stand for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e862	I tried instead to ask the Center Party a question about property taxes, but they mildly replied a little unkindly, and I guess I can't interpret anything other than that they don't guarantee that they won't increase the prom from four to seven. It's the Labour Party that seems to be the largest on that side if they were to be in government. Lauvås has started the debate freshly and clearly, so he will certainly be more clear in his feedback to me, if a labor party government will increase the property tax from four to seven proms over the next period. Or can he please me and all the house and cabin owners that it won't happen now?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e869	At least I can reassure the Progress Party and the representative Njåstad that we will at least start by strengthening the municipal economy by 3 billion. kr more than the Progress Party believes that municipalities are worth getting, so that they can provide good welfare services to their citizens and perhaps have the opportunity not to impose property taxes. Because it is right, as the representative of the Central Party said, that municipalities do not introduce property taxes with joy. They introduce it because it is necessary. They introduce it because, among other things, The Progress Party year after year in this room has given the municipalities a bad framework. I'm reminded that the Workers' Party has been on about three-and-a-half billion. kr more to the municipalities at each and every round we have had in this magnification for the last eight years. The party of progress has consistently voted it down.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e874	I thank you for your answer. The representative repeats the usual – that everything will be resolved with several billions – knowing that the majority of the population we have had for eight years has put on considerably more billions than the previous, red-green government. If you think of the logic of Lauvås, I see it as a promise that one should add at least 3 billion. kr more, and that property tax is not desirable. Can we, then, rest assured that a non-enhancement of the possibilities of municipalities to increase their income from property taxes on the prom, i.e. from four to more, but that one retains the level that today's population has determined?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e881	It's true that you've spent more billions than ever before. We do that every year. So that's nothing new. The thing is, if you look at the long-term accounts, the local economy has not been strengthened with the Progress Party in government. The Progress Party has given priority to spending the big money on things completely different from local welfare development. Among other things, they have spent the money on large tax cuts for those who have the most from before. What we need is not the recipe of the Progress Party for the local economy – to go in and cut off and take a piece of an income system. We need an overall review of the income system. I had hoped that a previous rapporteur would have understood that. It looks like he's forgotten his old arts. I think it is a little strange that the Progress Party is not more clear that we need to see the income system – a fair and beneficial income system in Norway – in a more comprehensive review, and not break it up, as the Progress Party wants to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e888	The representative, Lauvås, said in his speech that the Workers' Party has great ambitions for the municipal sector, and he also pointed out, quite correctly, that the pandemic has made society more unfair. For those at the bottom of the ladder, the municipal economy is important, for example: those who have lost their offer at school, or others who have lost their offers now, and have become both sicker and more lonely—and perhaps even worse, those who have not reached the wall and have to seek help from Nav. The representative's own home country has now had a rather terrible case, which is basically also about municipal economics. One of the reasons why SV increases the local economy is that we have ambitions for school, care and child protection, but also for the social issues for which the municipalities are responsible. What are the specific ambitions of the Workers' Party in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e895	It is quite right that the SV and the Workers' Party share the great ambitions to use the municipalities as future welfare developers, thus providing good services to the inhabitants where they live, and equivalent services throughout the country. Then it's absolutely right that we have to put more money on the table than the government has been willing to do, not just for 2022. We have had the same attitude through these eight years that the local economy needs to be strengthened. We have a three-billion-dollar proposal. kr, SV has another proposal. Of course, this is explained by the Swedish authorities themselves, but the point is that we agree that it is important to strengthen the municipalities and their finances. So I hope the autumn's elections will make it possible for us, the representative Andersen and SV and the Workers' Party, to sit down and find good solutions that actually give local elected people a real opportunity to run well in their municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e904	I hope so, too, but then I think the Workers' Party must excite not only its ambitions, but also its willingness to spend money on the community significantly, because if you look at the needs that are out in the municipal sector now, at school, at under-funding of kindergartens, for example. in the social field, there are very large gaps. Just an hour ago, we discussed a case here in Stortinget that there is a need for a pay gap for many of those who work in the professions that have really been in it through the pandemic: teachers, nurses, health professionals – all those who have done this job. If there is to be room for such a pay gap, the local government sector must have a framework to negotiate and make this pay gap. Has the Workers' Party taken this into account in its municipal structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e911	Yeah, we mean we do. Then we have to be honest and say that after eight years of a municipal economy that has been too bad over and over again, we can't handle all those things in a responsible way in one year. I am absolutely sure that neither SV believes that it should be possible to correct eight years with the wrong course in one year. I hope we get an election result for the fall that makes us actually able to come to power. Then I think there are good prospects that we will be able to agree on a municipal arrangement that will enable us to strengthen the municipalities, so that they can provide better services to their citizens. The very debates about the state budget, which I understand the representative Andersen will almost start with here and now in a line change, I will of course not be on board.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e918	The keyword is resource-intensive users, and it has been an Achilles heel for many years. In its reign, the Workers' Party or the Red-Green Government did not raise the entry point, but weakened the scheme by lowering the compensation rate from 85 to 80 pst. Why was it easier to do that then than the current government raising the point of impact?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e923	The Christian People's Party has been involved in all these eight years and has ensured that the municipalities have not received enough money. The Christian People's Party has graduated from the Progress Party and the Right in government and voted for the municipal budgets – municipal budgets that show that not enough money has been prioritised for the municipalities. The Christian People's Party has helped to prioritize the great money to the richest in this country by giving them great tax cuts. That is what the Christian People's Party has voted for in this Chamber. As for resource-intensive users and the point of entry, I think the Christian People's Party should look a little in the mirror, because they have been consistent in recent years – consistent! – help raise the point of entry, time and time again, and make it more expensive for municipalities to have resource-intensive users. They have prioritised the large amount of money for tasks quite different from welfare services in municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e931	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e936	The municipal sector has made an impressive effort to meet the pandemic. It's worth thanking all of them, one by one. Municipalities and county councils have faced major practical challenges in addressing societally critical functions during the outbreak of the virus, and municipalities have reduced the health consequences of the pandemic through infectious measures, testing, detection and vaccination. Municipalities and county councils have in a demanding situation made sure that the inhabitants have received services they depend on in everyday life, such as schools, kindergartens, health and care services and public transport. It has been reassuring for the municipal sector that, throughout the corona crisis, the government has clearly indicated that the municipal sector should be compensated for the effects of tax losses, loss of income and additional costs associated with the coronary apathy. The municipal sector is well equipped in 2022 to handle conditions that are not captured by the fixed part of the income system of the municipal sector. In addition, the economic situation of the municipal sector at the start of 2020, i.e. prior to the outbreak of the virus, was good. In the period from 2013 to 2021, the free income of the local government sector increased by well over 40 billion. kr – this is because income for 2021, i.e. current year, was estimated to increase for the municipal sector by 9 billion. kr collected, and the free income increases by a total of 5.9 billion. kr. If this option is checked, extra privileges will be ignored due to the effect that the plugin has on the screen. The municipalities are thus well equipped to invest in the basic welfare services of the inhabitants. There is great optimism, and municipalities look forward to easier use of corona measures and a more normal operation. During the period after 2013, several children have been admitted to kindergarten, the results in the primary school have been better, the duration of child protection has been reduced, there have been more and more qualified additions to the health and care services, and several students have passed the further training. The good growth in income has resulted in net operating surplus for the local government sector below one in recent years being well above the recommended level of 2 pst. from the technical calculation selection for the municipal and county economy. Based on preliminary KOSTRA figures, net operating surplus in 2020 is estimated at 3 pst. Both municipalities and county municipalities have increased net operating surplus in 2020. There was uncertainty about the evolution of the economic situation of municipalities in 2020, but figures suggest that the municipal economy has come in a good way over the year. Good operating results over several years have made it possible to build up significant available funds. At the end of 2020, available funds are estimated to be 11,6 pst. as a share of the revenue for the sector. That means they have a total of 70 billion. kr on book. For comparison, the available funds were 6.9 pst. of revenue at the end of 2013. At the entrance to May 2021, only 13 municipalities were registered in ROBEK, against 46 municipalities in 2013. This can change when the municipal accounts for 2020 are completed. A good and prosperous municipal economy with this government and the Progress Party will be continued to next year. This provides a good basis for the local government sector to continue to deliver the services that its citizens require and expect, both under the current exceptional situation and when the situation is gradually normalised. For the municipal economy for the next year, free revenues are between 2 billion. kr and 2,4 brd. kr. The government provides a framework that provides an action room for strengthening the municipal service provision. There is also considerable migration and efficiency work in the municipal sector in order to release resources in order to provide citizens with more and better services. By improving efficiency and improvement, the provision of municipal services can be strengthened beyond what is in the growth of income. Select half of the total local government debt of 625 billion. kr was fully or partly covered by others and does not charge the municipal budget as a result of e.g. the principle of self-cost. It is invested in water and sewage, loans are recorded for further lending as municipal loans — to give some examples. Part of the liabilities of municipalities must also be seen in the light of state incentive schemes for investment, such as interest compensation schemes and investment incentives reflecting a desired policy. For example, the investment initiative, which is part of the follow-up to the Life Life reform, aims to stimulate municipalities to renew and increase the provision of health care facilities and care facilities for people with a need for day-to-day health and care services. When the municipalities have good incomes at the same time as low interest rates and population growth, it gives hope for the future and optimism. It reinvigorates investment, growth and development. The operating results have our good, and as you can see, there are few municipalities in ROBEK. The municipalities thus seem to manage the debt they have in a good way. In February this year, the government presented the perspective announcement. The Communication discusses important challenges for the Norwegian economy, for public finances and for the continuation of the Norwegian welfare arrangements in the long term. In the years ahead, the room for action in the State budget will be reduced. There are several older people, which will generate growth in health care expenditure and in pension payments. For municipalities, this will mean growth in expenditure and an increase in labour demand within the sector. At the same time, it will be relatively less in working age, which means that the growth of tax revenue will be reduced. In order to ensure that citizens have access to good and equivalent public services, we need resilient and strong communities with strong professional environments that can meet these challenges over the years we have ahead of us. It's interesting to read the summaries of several of the government administrators' assessments that have been given in the municipal proposition. There are still differences between municipalities of both size, competence and how well they carry out their tasks, and there is a danger that these variations will be reinforced. There are particular challenges related to the capacity and competence of small municipalities and the need for a more holistic and sustainable development of society and industry, making it necessary to continue working on an even more forward-looking municipal structure. It's the first year of the new municipalities. Many planned activities to continue the construction of the new municipalities were replaced by crisis management and infection tracking. Government administrators point out that the new municipalities are already experiencing positive experiences from the merger in the first year, especially by strengthening their capacity and competence in different disciplines, while still making a lot of effort to realise the benefits of the merger. For the Right, it is important and right that municipalities continue to work towards a future-oriented municipal structure. We know that there are several good initiatives more places in the country. Right supports the provision of good and long-term economic instruments for municipalities wishing to merge, cf. The connection of the Storting to this in Innst. 393 S for 2017-2018. Then the government party and the Progress Party are some about adjusting parts of the device for next year as well. The Government Party and the Advance Party have now significantly improved the suspension arrangement for two major periods, and we are now asking for a change of legislation to ensure that the suspension project receives a minimum of 25 pst. of interest compensated. We have also been concerned that the system of resource-requiring services is a costly system both for the state and for some municipalities. Expenditure has increased strongly for several years. We adjust the equipment and look forward to the results of the work that the government has undertaken to assess the possibilities to better control the cost growth, and we hope that the work can produce good results. Of course, there are also several other good suggestions we have worked out in the configuration, and I take this into account the suggestions Right are part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e974	The representative of Ove Trellevik has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e981	A clear prerequisite for our municipal structure in 2022 is that the municipal economy in 2021 is first secured, so that the municipalities and county councils are fully compensated for the total effects of tax failure, loss of income and additional costs associated with the corona outbreak. Increases in appropriations in connection with the Corona outbreak are positive. However, even if the municipal sector is compensated as a whole, it is uncertain how accurate the compensation will be for each municipality. The municipality of Oslo has over time had the highest infection pressure in the country, and last year the scheme from the state showed that Oslo was not fully compensated. Oslo has also for a long time had the highest unemployment rate in the country as a direct consequence of the coronary apathy. My question is: what is the Right intend to do to compensate Oslo for what they have not been compensated for by increased expenditure and reduced revenues?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e990	The government has always been clear that it will follow up the local government sector by managing the cost increases that the sector will have due to the pandemic, as well as income reductions. It's been done in a good way. Right is satisfied with the government's work on this and is of course also satisfied with the KS feedback that the government has followed up the promise in a very good way. So the government party proposes, and it seems that we are in favour of it today, that we want to continue working with the working group that has been working on the challenges and the cost of the community sector. I expect that the working group will look at the challenges that remain in order to manage the local economy as a consequence of the pandemic, and I expect them to make good recommendations on this issue as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e999	With regard to the costs of vaccination, compensation received by Oslo after the RNB is significantly lower than the estimated costs for Oslo in the first six months. Is it positive that the municipal sector will maintain the estimated VAT growth by 2021 and that it will continue until next year, but can the Right guarantee that the municipalities will be compensated for all their costs of the vaccination that are currently being carried out throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1004	The municipal sector as a whole will be compensated. It will also be possible for government administrators to contribute to individual municipalities that do not receive their costs. But the government has been clear that the municipal sector as a whole should be compensated, and there is something Right-wing supports.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1009	The centre party has nothing against voluntary community merger, and we have voted in favour of all voluntary mergers here in the Chamber. But the right-wing government has coerced both municipalities and county councils in this last period, despite strong protests, and already after a few years, we see signing lists requiring detachment because the services have become much worse, they are unable to hold professionals, etc. After all, the size has taken a decision that clearly does not require coercion to take place. In the linecode exchange, the Right has been very concerned with municipal structure and more municipal merger. I take that as a bad sign that the Right also in the next period will overrun local democracy. The question I believe voters are entitled to receive answers is: Will the Right implement new coercive mergers during the next major period?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1020	It is wrong, as the representative has claimed, that there have been coercive municipal mergers in this room during this period. That is not correct. Many aggregations were carried out during the previous ageing period. All the municipalities had a positive decision that they wanted a municipal consultation, but not all of them got the neighbor they wanted. But I don't want to define this as coercion. There are very good results out in Kommune-Noreg after merging. Internal Eastfold, for example, had budgeted with not a large surplus, but the countries of 104 million. kr better than budgeted last year. They themselves write on their websites, both the spokesperson and the head of economy there, that this is the municipal conspiracy that has ensured. They put off 83 million. kr in an outline fund, and they expect to draw even more attention to the municipal convergence. So for the Right side, we wanted this room to take an even greater responsibility for improving the municipal structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1029	I'll try one more time with a quick and simple question: will the Right continue the coercive mergers in the next period? The voters actually have the right to know what the right goes to the choice. The central party is going to vote that we will not carry out coercive mergers and despite local democracy. Will the Right respect local democracy, or is there a danger of new coercion in the next period?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1034	Right wants multiple municipalities to merge. The very best thing is that there are good local processes about this, and we know that there are many good local processes about this around the country today. But right and I want this room to take an even greater responsibility for the future municipal structure in Norway. We spend too much time on this. There is a need to review the municipal structure and improve it, and that this room takes a much greater responsibility for social development in the municipal sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1040	The representative Trellevik mentioned the perspective message in his post, and that's interesting because it should be a happy message – the perspective message says we're going to be much richer in the future. The question is just how we're going to use the wealth we're getting. The right has systematically, through their period of government, said that we must cut welfare, and completely systematically and very focused distributed billions to the richest and most wealthy of the country. But we can choose different. Yes, we will be many more older in the future, but we can choose to use the increased wealth we get, to ensure the community, to ensure that care for the elderly is good, and to ensure that all children in Norway have a good school and a family with a good economy. What is the reason why the Right selects the richest over these important tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1055	The values must be created before they can be shared – the answer to the perspective message is Right's policy. To avoid the challenges that perspective messages point to, society needs more of Right-wing policy. There is no point in bringing a new tax burden to work, to society, to both workers and employers – an even greater tax burden, and especially now in and after the corona pandemic, where the red-green parties have promised a tax deduction, while many are struggling against a market that is actually not there. Very hard work to get the wheels to go well again after the pandemic. Increasing taxes on society's workplaces is not what society needs to get further growth and development. It is business and a well-functioning business that must bear the burdens and have the revenues, so that we have tax revenues for society. Then it won't be useful to break them until they have done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1060	It's probably that if we have good welfare and good schools and make sure everyone does well, that's an even better bet on value creation in the future. But what I was asking was, the perspective statement shows that we're getting a lot richer, how are we going to distribute that wealth? The right prescribes a cut in welfare, cut in municipal economy, cut in old age care, cut in our community to give even more to the richest, where you repeat and repeat the story of fairy tales that there is so much tax pressure in Norway. No, that's not what Norway is on average in the OECD on this. It is fully possible to become rich and millionaires in Norway with SV's policies, but that small differences significantly increase the value creation and trust in society, it is clear that Right House has passed. How will they use the action space in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1069	Right, of course, a welfare society, and the welfare society that we have today, we want to be passed on. We want the patient's health care, and we want an education and a school for the students. It has been much better – before the pandemic, health cows had fallen, before the pandemic was much better in the schools, and before the pandemic, unemployment was also decreasing in this country. So it's not about the fact that the Right doesn't have a policy for growth and development, but it's about the fact that we have to focus on nutrition and spend the money on welfare after the income comes. SV only wants to increase the cost of society by over 10 billion in this community proposal. kr – to municipalities that have actually shown that they can reduce costs through more efficient use of resources. Nevertheless, SV wants to impose on our business a tax burden that is not, in fact, strictly considered necessary to maintain the welfare community as we do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1074	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1079	I would like to start by thanking the Committee Secretary and the entire staff of Stortinget for their good cooperation in correcting this setting for us. Nights and days are used to help us with paper, something we appreciate very much. I would also like to thank the Good Cooperation Committee, in particular the Government Party, which met the Progress Party at a number of points during the consideration of this proposition. This is the last municipal proposition we deal with in this period, including the last one over eight years with the same plurality in the Stortinget, a plurality with the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Then it's always a little fun to mumble and read a little about all the warnings that were made in 2013. If there were to be a change of government that time, Norwegian municipalities would be in trouble. Deceptive center party leader, Navarsete, had several posts and told how bad it was going to go. It was going to be narrowhans. Then it's a little bit fun to see the big numbers, for example. see the number of municipalities at ROBEK. Looking at the number of ROBEK municipalities today versus the number of ROBEK municipalities at the government change, it gives a completely different impression than what was drawn at the time as a terror propaganda by the red-green ones. Looking at the amount of money Norwegian municipalities have on book, just money in the bank that they can spend on exactly what they want, there are tens of billions more today than it was in 2013. So it's a significantly stronger and more robust community economy we witness at the end of this period, than we witnessed at the beginning of 2013. In addition, we have implemented a municipal reform with the four parties, which has ensured that we have a municipal structure that is more robust. He would like to be even more robust, but at least we have fewer municipalities, municipalities that are able to meet the future in a better way. But something is also similar, and I think it'll be equal regardless of how many billions and how many reinforcements we make of the local economy. We'll always experience that there's a dictionary or 400 or 350 that could think a little bit more. I believe that no matter what one had given of money in the state budget and in municipal propositions, someone had seen that it was a little too small, it should have been a little bit more. As previous spokesmen, I know myself very well in it. I was never happy either, because the ambitions on behalf of my own municipality are always greater than what is available, and that's what it should be. I don't think we'll ever get into a situation where Norwegian municipal politicians and Norwegian spokesmen say that now we've got enough money. It will always be like that – it will always be like that. That's because there are great ambitions in Norwegian municipalities, and that's what's good about the government and local democracy: Ein has ambitions locally. This year it is difficult to talk about local economics and futures without getting into the Korona situation, which has influenced Norwegian municipalities as much as he has influenced us here in this room. I'm from here, from pink Norwegian municipalities, for the effort they've made in the first line, both in handling the situation and in delivering good services in a wide range of ways. It shows that the model we have in Norway with municipalities that provide a wide range of services to the inhabitants also works well in a crisis situation that we have been through. Norwegian municipalities have definitely passed that test. It also has Norwegian authorities, which, in cooperation with Norwegian municipalities, have made funds available to councillors. Me and the Progress Party are very happy with the way you've organized it. We are part of a working group with the government together with the local government sector – KS is part of it. Just sit around the table and learn about common problem descriptions, and work together on the analysis to be done. I am very pleased that we first got the government party and later the entire committee to agree that that working group will continue, because with the background of the corona, we do not see the end of the economic impact of the local government sector. That's why it's natural that it worked on, and we're happy about it. Especially when it comes to the situation of the collective societies, it will be long before we see the aftermath, because we know that travel habits will change, the working life will change by the corona. It is then natural that this group, which is the meeting point between the government and the local government sector, continues. So it's no secret that the Progress Party is busy with low charges for most people, both in this hall at the national level and in the individual municipality. It's a little interesting that the Center Party, which is making itself very tall and dark and is opposed to fees, is the party that collects the most property tax in its own municipalities. Property tax has the word ‘tax’ in itself, but it is actually a tax because one has a home, and one pays no matter what ability one has to pay — unlike another type of tax. One pays regardless of whether an own house – if only one has borrowed the house and the bank actually owns it, one has to pay the property tax. We are therefore pleased that we have managed to move a little bit of the policy in this field over the eight years we have been in a multiple. We've managed to go from 7 per million to 4 per million. I took a measure of myself today to find out if it was going to be like this after a government change. The answer is that it is unclear, and that it is quite possible for the red-green to reverse the policy in that area and make it even more expensive for people to live in their homes – or for those who have cabins that they may have inherited, and on which they get a huge bill. We're glad that the government party has come to meet us once again, so they're going to figure out how to set a roof. It will be important to avoid the unreasonably large tax returns on property that many people experience. I think what an impression it made when Mariann from Bodø told me that she had to consider taking the kids out of the kindergarten to pay the property tax of over NOK 10,000 to stay in her own home. There are many examples of which we are concerned about, and which make us want to set a roof – and preferably remove the entire property tax, because he is unsocial and unfair. We are also pleased that the government party we work out the principle of self-sufficiency and construction fee. There's a big gap, and we're facing the challenge that results in this being done by the government. It is also an important statement for the Progress Party today. Several people have thought that the pandemic has made people work and cages change. More spends even more time on the cabins than they did before. Thanks to a solid bet on broadband, it is possible in all of Norway to sit on the cabin and work, both to attend meetings and to get things away. The amount of time people spend on the cabin will probably change over time. This has been a problem for a long time. Strong cabin municipalities, especially on the mountains and along the coast, feel that they need to dimension preparedness when it comes to health, fire and other things at a different level because they have a large cabin population in addition to their own. This is to be done, and I am happy that the government has agreed that one should look at it. It will be a solid contribution to municipalities. At least they have no longer any argument for having unreasonably high property taxes, which many of the cottage municipalities have unfortunately. We're talking about transport, and it's impossible not to talk about transportation when we come to the municipal and county community economy. It is the county councils that are responsible for much of the transport policy, especially after the red-green ones gave the county municipalities extremely many kilometres of highway in 2010 without following a standard, and without following with money to do anything about it. We are pleased that there are several government parties to set up a scheme of at least 1 billion. kr in favour of renewal, development and investment in the county road network. We're slipping to the state budget to present the details of it, because it needs to be, the inhabitants toil with bad highways. We are also pleased that we are able to make improvements to the holiday cancellation scheme, which we have been working with since 2013. It has been a little bit of the baby of the Progress Party and the sign that we should make it easier for unconnected island communities to replace the ferry with a bridge. It's a good idea in itself rather to pay for 45 years to build a bridge than to subsidize the ferry business in all of the adventures. We know that one of the big challenges many of these societies have is that interest rates are getting very high at first. So last year, we challenge the government to figure out a model that makes it possible to contribute to interest support at first to make the puck effect easier at first. There the government presented a model, and our first thought was that this is written by bureaucrats in the Ministry of Finance and is too bad. Luckily, they adjusted the proposal, a roof was a floor, and a guarantee of a minimum order that allows very many island communities to now plan to replace the ferry with a bridge. It is good district policy and a fine way for the Progress Party to contribute to strengthening district policy for government. I'll deal with the proposal that we're on our own, the others have been recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1109	Then the representative Helge André Njåstad addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1114	I have registered that the Progress Party wants Swedish states in Norway. One of the reasons why we have done much better through this pandemic is that we have a strong welfare state in Norway and a strong public health service, while in Sweden there are many elements of private actors and major weaknesses in how to handle the pandemic. I register that the Progress Party is taking inspiration from Sweden. The ‘fixed track’ model is sought in order to privatise care in municipalities. Why is the Progress Party taking inspiration from Sweden, why Swedish states in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1119	It must be new to me that we are getting a special amount of inspiration from Sweden. I know that the questioner takes considerable inspiration from Sweden in many different fields. When you talk about privatisation of health services, it's wrong. That Progress Party is very clear, is that health services should be fully funded by the public, but to us, who provides the services is subordinate. In fact, we believe that we get more for the crowns that there is competition to deliver the services. We're getting more innovation. It shall be financed by the community, but whether it is the municipality itself or the health service provider is subordinate. The most important thing is that there is a competition to deliver. Then another one, like one has in very many other fields in society, where competition works very well. But there's a big difference between putting something on the market and privatizing something, and it's important that one in the position of questions is clear about what the deal is. The progress party will postpone competition but will no longer privatise.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1126	I just recorded that when the government and the Prime Minister were out of town that they had taken inspiration from Sweden for ‘fixed track’ for the privatisation of care, the Progress Party here at Stortinget thought it was a great victory for them. I expect the representative to know the municipality of Austevoll. It is a nice and beautiful municipality, and it was the first district municipality to privatize the care of the elderly. But then something happened. It is the municipality that is best able to operate this sector, said a rapporteur from the Right. What does the representative think is the reason why people elected locally, even those representing the right side, think that this is bad policy, that it does not lead to better care, and that it is expensive and bureaucratic? At the same time, I have also registered that the Progress Party believes that the nurses deserve better pay, and I fully agree with that. But if we look here in town, we see that the nurses who work in private care have tens of thousands of dollars less in wages than the public staff.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1134	There were a lot of different questions here. It is nice that the representative thinks that Austevoll is a great municipality. He has to come to visit, and I'll show him around. And I'm also going to tell him that the outsourcing of the elderly services that were made led to better quality for the inhabitants through more choice and a skilled operator who provided good services. The background for the Right chose to go into company with the party to the queryer to reverse this, gets a asked question about right and not to us. I record that the Right was in the decision, and they probably thought it was nice to save taxpayers for a seven-eight million a year while maintaining the quality of services. But I'm recording that after the election they chose to cooperate with the Workers' Party. To call them the right party locally when they conduct labour party politics – it's a rhetoric I've used locally, and he hasn't been said against. I think the party to the questioner has had a significant impact on labour party policy in that municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1139	Progress & party writes in configuration: ‘A good and predictable local economy is an important foundation for the Norwegian welfare society and some of the most important big business can contribute to the everyday life of individuals and families.’ I totally agree. So now the Progress Party is going to remove the property tax, and they're not going to give another penny in this municipal bill to Norwegian municipalities. This has been a matter for the Progress Party throughout the period. The rapporteurs of the Progress Party have clear feedback. Kjell-Børge Freiberg in Hadsel had a feedback in 2015 where he says that the party leader and finance minister Siv Jensen has totally unrealistic expectations, does not understand Kommune-Norge, and that it is impossible to secure the welfare offer in Norwegian municipalities with the current framework. The Progress Party rapporteur in Håler has said exactly the same thing. What services are the municipalities required to reduce in order to eliminate property taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1153	I thought the whole discussion about property taxes would be a little bit weird. How one can cope without a property tax is the question, and it is produced as completely impossible. The answer is actually quite open. There are a number of Norwegian municipalities today that manage without a tax on their property. My answer is that the municipalities are very good at learning from each other, so why not visit the municipalities that manage without taxes on their own, and find out what they do to make them do without them. I myself have experience as a spokesman, and I chose to remove the property tax in Austevoll. I then experienced that it has created an optimism. By marketing for business and residents that one is a municipality without property tax, there is a move, positive and optimism, which causes tax revenues to rise afterwards on ordinary taxation. I am absolutely sure that removing the property tax in Austevoll in 2013 has contributed to the optimism that will result in the future tax revenue being good, and that makes it a good and healthy municipal economy in that municipality today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1160	The lot of the centre is not subject to any property tax. It is, as I said, in distress, not in the interest of introducing it into the municipalities. When the Progress Party now proposes to have a roof on, for example: 3,000 kroner, I wonder if they haven't thought about the social security system on it. If I were to propose changes and restrictions on property taxes, at least I would have had restrictions on the percentage of household income, because then those with the lowest income would also have been greatly relieved, while those with a very high income would have contributed to the community, and we could maintain the services. The Property Tax Act today also opens up for example: to exempt those who have a household income below x number G, as we have in my municipality, where minimum pensioners apply for exemptions and do not pay property taxes. Why doesn't the Progress Party want to reduce property taxes for people most, but preferably for the millionaires?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1171	The party of progress will remove the property tax for everyone, most people and everyone, but we're not getting the government party with us to do it overnight. That's why we've got them to figure out how to put a roof. Of course, it's very much about the social profile as well. It's not like those who have big houses are necessarily the richest, there can be a lot of loans on the house, as I said in my post. We also know that very many inherit property, perhaps according to their parents, and they are classified as leisure homes and taxed very expensively by the municipalities. There are a lot of people who are then pressured to sell their childhood home, sell their holiday home. So it's important for us to put a roof as a part of getting the property tax away. I don't know if I believe that the Center Party is actually against property taxes, when they're so critical in a way. Every time the Progress Party talks to that treasure, it's the Center Party that's our biggest critic. I think this actually illustrates a big difference between the two parties. The party of progress will bring down the property tax, the centre party thinks he's quite nice to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1180	Now in the spring we have seen that the leader of the Progress Party has said that the Progress Party will provide a paylift for those who work in the care professions. I have been looking very much for it when I have looked through the local economy of the Progress Party. I also hear that the Progress Party says that they are very concerned with care for the elderly. I have searched through this community structure and found nothing. On the other hand, I find quite concrete proposals from the Progress Party where they say that they will eliminate both the property tax and the property tax. That's 28 billion. kr – 28 br. kr cut in municipal economy from the Progress Party. How much pay raise and old age care will be in the municipal sector when they are to have 28 billion. kr less than what they have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1187	In the case of property taxes, there is a strange tax that only goes on Norwegian owners. Therefore, the Progress Party has said that we will remove the inequality between whether you are a foreign owner or a local Norwegian owner. We are reasonably sure that Norway is in the long run interested in our local ownership of businesses. The municipalities are concerned that the corner stone holdings are local, that the owner of the farm is at the store, is in the kindergarten and takes young people, is part of the community, more than that there is foreign capital. Therefore, I'm completely overconfident that if we remove the property tax, the money that will then be saved will be used for new value creation that will again give large tax revenues to Norwegian municipalities, plus to secure jobs. The answer to this is that by removing such strange taxes, we are helping to safeguard the welfare of the future, which in turn can help us set up wages and provide good services. The alternative – to be the Norwegian owner – is that we get less Norwegian ownership, and that would be unfortunate for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1196	I'm just recording that the Progress Party repeats this kind of voodoo of its economic history. We have asked the government if they can prove that there has come a single job out of these tax havens that the Progress Party is going to have even more of, and it simply cannot be documented at all. I'll try to repeat my question. With the local economy that the Progress Party is now in favour, the Progress Party sees that there is room for this paylift that the leader of the Progress Party has now promised to come, or that there is room in the local economy, with 28 billion. kr less, for a lift for the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1203	We believe that there is room both for more pay and for the care of the elderly with the arrangements that are in place. It would also be possible for the Progress Party to have more impact on our fiscal policy. I record that the questioner has no interest in non-discrimination between Norwegian and foreign ownership. One asks the ministry if they can prove things. I would rather recommend that one do as we do and travel along the coast and talk to business owners. They paint a very clear picture: if the wealth tax is lower, the money will go back to the company, to investment, to secure jobs. It's the way corporate owners along the coast and in Norway think that they're busy with their community. They have great value in building societies. We want more of that, not less. We want a stronger private sector in Norway, because it is important for the decentralised structure we have. We must then ensure that there is at least equal treatment between Norwegian and foreign owners. I think it's strange that it's almost just the progress party that talks this way in this hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1212	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1217	It is the strong communities that give individual freedom and choice independently of background. And the local economy builds these strong communities. It is apparently far from the government offices to the floor of the hospital or classroom – much longer than it is for the stock exchange. The proposal put forward by the government on the municipal economy shows that there are zero ambitions for a better school, which SV will have, for a safer care for the elderly, which SV wants, for the differences to decrease, as SV wants, while the government prefers to spend the money on parties for the richest. I think, when I look at the local economy of the various parties here, that most of them could not have understood the seriousness of the strike in the municipalities now or in all the warnings that there are too few people at work in the areas of health, care, schools and child protection in the municipalities. More teachers, carers and nurses are urgently needed, and there is a need for a paylift. This must be done for these socially critical jobs, and then the municipalities must have room for action to carry it out. Before today, we had to discuss payroll, where it was said that the sacred service is a danger to life and health. We have to take it seriously. We have to make sure that employees do not have to endure, and that both the elderly, the relatives and those in need of care do not have to doubt and be afraid if they get it. I'm not so surprised that the government doesn't see the seriousness, but I'm very surprised that the Center Party and the Workers' Party are so little ambitious as they are. SV has completely different ambitions. We want the price of the SFO and kindergarten, so that all children can participate. We want to spend money on more teachers and on more nurses and health professionals, so that children and the elderly, disabled and sick are safe in their everyday lives. It's much more important than billionaires, and it's also value-creating, because then more people are going to be able to do well. There's a need for money for more rehabilitation. Psychiatric health has all spoken about now after the corona, and those offers must be there in the municipal sector, and there must be low-threshold services. There must be leisure opportunities for those young people who have now fallen out of sport and other offers they have had, so that they come into good fellowship. Better highways and broadband are needed. Better equipment is needed in secondary schools. I miss hearing some of the others talk about it. We're busy with the school. We are concerned that the students should choose a professional course. We know that there's no equipment in high school, and that those lines are very expensive. SV says that the counties have to get more money. Everyone says they want emission-free public transport – perhaps apart from the Progress Party, which is not so much concerned about such things. It costs money during a transitional period, but it will also create many jobs in the future. That money has to be put on the table. SV wants all children to be in the game. That's why we've added 1 billion to our budget. kr to start the escalation, so that the SFO can be free of charge for all children. We know that there are many families who don't send their kids to SFO because they can't afford it. It costs thousands of dollars in many municipalities. Free SFO will give many families 30 000–35 000 extras to live for in the years they can afford poorly. And everyone's gonna have to smile. Going to the dentist is expensive, and many can't afford it. That's why we're also adding a step-up of dental health to the county councils. It's rare that we discuss it when we discuss municipal economics, but it's also part of the municipal economy. We have to start escalating this, in order not to afford to repair their teeth is not only bad, but it is devastating for health. If we're going to have a society where everyone has equal opportunities, which everyone is talking about, we have to make sure everyone can smile and afford it. I will address the suggestions SV is behind in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1243	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1250	When we hear the representative, Andersen, talk about the tasks and finances of the municipalities, and the government's local economy, it is almost difficult to understand that SV is at all assessing government cooperation with the Workers' Party and the Center Party. There's a big gap between the three billion these two parties will add to the government's municipal structure, and the ten billion SV will have. So for the Workers' Party and the Center Party, it's 3 billion. kr, which is the difference between a good and a bad municipality layout, and for SV it is 10 billion. kr, and it is far from a common municipal structure for the three batches that will be in the government position until the harvest. So my question is, how will SV come up with a joint arrangement with the other two parties, and in what specific areas will they be willing to celebrate the demands and promises they have made in the municipal proposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1257	SV's municipal structure is a very good argument to vote in favour of SV at the autumn elections, because we show that we take seriously the major needs of the municipal sector, for example. in the case of school, which I know is also occupied by the right, but with a different angle of incidence than that of the SV. We have now seen under the pandemic that many children have not even received the special education they are entitled to. We know that there is a lack of skilled teachers – there have never been as many unskilled teachers in school as there is under the Right – and that there is a need for more teachers, so that each student can be seen and can get on with his or her education and courage. That is why we give priority to this. It costs money, and for us, this is much more important than right-wing taxes or other things, so we're going to stand on hard for this. We want to strengthen the community, and that's what we're going to do. We're proud of that, and this is what we want to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1264	I thank you for your answer. We note that SV has problems with prioritizing, we have seen that before, but let me ask the question in a slightly different way: the working party has in the setting of the municipal bill sunk many of its promises from the alternative budget, but SV has been very specific in the setting and listed a hurry with areas where they want to bet on increased appropriations. Go to page 37 of the configuration. There are 27 points listed that SV will strengthen and their costs are far beyond what the Workers' Party and the Centre are prepared for in their arrangements. So which of these measures are they prepared to cut? Are these qualified teachers? Is that adapted training? Is this the increase in the number of health workers, free SFO, 3,800 kindergartens, public libraries, race and tailoring, broadband for districts? Is it the dental reform, the drug treatment, the school health service or one of the other suggestions they want to offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1269	I would like to thank the representative Benestad for using his speaking time to address the important proposals of the SV. It's very important that they are now mentioned here in the hall. No, we don't have any problem prioritizing. We prioritise all these important things in front of tax havens to people like Benestad and me and to those who have more than that. We think that's much more important. I'm counting on everyone who now walks around talking about the need for rehabilitation, that there is a need for mental health strengthening, that there is a need for better schooling, and so on. - That it's just talk. SV is willing to move money to these important areas, and we intend to fight for that in the election campaign and every single day in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1276	I'm recording that SV has great intentions. Equally full: If you are going to be in the government offices for the harvest, there are two other parties – at least – you have to reign with. So I'm still asking the question: what is it you are willing to discuss with the others, so that you can get a picture of what a community scheme will be like in a red-green alternative?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1281	The President would appreciate the fact that the speech went through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1286	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1291	At least there is no doubt that this option will lead to a strengthening of the local economy. I know that the representative Benestad has also been in cooperation now with – and still wants to cooperate with – parties that will remove 28 billion. kr from the local economy. I think maybe the Right should start to explain a little how they've thought of that cooperation in the future. Now we're going into a choice. SV believes it is possible to move a lot of money in the Norwegian economy. There's a lot of room for that. The perspective message, as we were inside, shows that we're going to be a lot richer in the future. The question is how to use the wealth in the years to come, and SV will use that money to strengthen the community. We invite the Workers' Party and the Centre into a cooperation where we're going to be able to realize it in a proper way to strengthen the community, and then it can't just be talk; then there must also be content of the promises and the words we come with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1298	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1303	Sometimes it may seem that we know nothing but pandemic preparedness, but luckily, the corona ghost is now slowly but surely dropping the roof. No one saw the huge spores that the pandemic would leave behind, and the enormous effort the Municipality of Norway has put down with now over 450 days of measures, exceptions, rules and restrictions. Keeping its inhabitants free from the corona virus is our priority number one, and one has been largely closed. Left thanks Kommune-Noreg for the job that has been done, and not least for the work that is done in these days to vaccinate the inhabitants. The government, with the prime minister of the municipality, promised early that all corona-related expenditure would be fully financed, and we have kept words. It was a wise decision to include KS in the work of mapping the corona expenditure of the municipalities. It gave confidence that the government and the majority of the population would deliver, and stop a little thoughtful, light criticism from the opposition. Throughout the pandemic, Kommune-Noreg has been able to feel confident that the government and the government parties have supported financially. In the municipal bill for 2022, the guarantees are followed up, where we also promise the municipalities compensation for the costs that have come into the cold water of the pandemic. In the left we are proud of our contribution to the success of the Commune-Noreg. Fewer municipalities are placed under administration. Increased permits to municipalities have lifted Kommune-Noreg. Then we're humble enough to admit that there are locals in Norway with great challenges at the same time. The relocation and recruitment difficulties are central keywords. Municipalities and local politicians are a pillar of democracy and of the welfare society. Through local policies, we create ownership, accrue and commitment to the development of society and the distribution and development of resources and services that the community constantly has. The local authority sector needs to be aware of the importance and support of national policy-makers. So it's a pleasure to see that the 2022 municipal bill paints a positive picture of the future. A literally ground-near trenching for fiber is a good example of it. In recent years, broadband development and organization have been granted quite a large amount of funding. At the end of 2025, it's a measure of 100 pst. of the households and enterprises in Norway shall have a minimum of 100 MB download speed and a minimum of 10 MB upload speed. It means a lot to small and medium-sized enterprises all over the country. With new insights into what the workplaces will look like in the future, broadband expansion will be a basic infrastructure in the transition of the world of work. Here, the left-wing government has monthly driven ambitions under the big loops of broadband, but also by introducing the State House Institute to the co-location of state services in Bygde-Noreg. Fortunately, the pandemic has given us some positive experiences and a taste of how the world of work develops, that we can do the job very often independently of each other – a development that is exciting to follow forward, where the State House model will play an important role and act as an inspiration for state settings and local co-location across state levels and thus also facilitate decentralised jobs and the community of the individual employee. The future is exciting, and for the Left, efforts for municipalities and local democracy will always have priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1325	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1330	Will the Left change the generalist principle, or shall it remain firm?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1335	The left has been a defender of the generalist principle for a long, long time and will still stand on the generalist principle as the basic one. When it comes to developing municipalities and continuing a completely necessary municipal reform to counter centralisation forces, I very much believe in the carrot principle, where we are now using the municipal reform and the new, larger municipalities and making it more attractive for several municipalities to join forces by bringing about the municipal reform of major government tasks, more state resources and not least responsibility and make local politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1342	In 2020, last year, the government put down a selection to look at alternatives to the generalist municipality principle. But with the answer I now get from the representative from the left, does that mean that the sample can now be scrapped?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1347	More knowledge must be good for everyone, for one to consider different options. Those who believe that the answer, the fasitite, is written in stone once and for all, believe I'm showing a little bit of wisdom from us that's also seen drawing the organization map of local democracy and figuring out how we, together with local politicians, should manage the resources and tasks shared at any time. So I want to welcome and look forward with excitement to the conclusions of such a selection. But this does not mean that the left does not have the generalist principle as a starting point and will have it until we see that the answer can be better than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1352	Now this wasn't about drawing the map. Left has shown earlier that they deal very badly. The chart drawing for the new county municipalities was a political matchmaking work that has received criticism from all bows and edges. This is about whether the principle of generalist municipalities should be established, i.e. whether all municipalities should be responsible for the same tasks. In the answer to my first question, the Left confirmed that yes, they should, but after the second question, when I said that then it is not necessary to have this investigation, it was suddenly necessary to have this investigation. What does the Left really mean – are they in favour of or against the generalist principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1357	I would prefer that the representative Lauvås was not quite so easily in his way of asking, but rather listen to the answer he gets. As a starting point, the left has the generalist principle. When we've been doing a selection to look at alternatives to it, it's obvious that knowledge always makes a wiser. The selection may conclude that the principle of generalist communism is the sovereign best even in the future, or they may come up with alternatives that can prove to be overcome by what is the greatest common challenge, simply to get an answer to how one can achieve a decentralisation, regain power and make the municipalities throughout the country more attractive both to live in, work in, and not least participate in local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1364	As a government party, the Left has participated in the centralisation of times, not least through more or less voluntary community and county mergers. The left has cut off the regional development funds previously allocated to local food funds, clusters, incubators and other innovations in municipalities. The left was supported by, among others: the company model in hospitals. The left and the government budget far lower sums to what we can call regional infrastructure, such as high-speed broadband and county roads – the representative mentioned some of it in his statement – than, for example, the European Parliament. The center party does. Nevertheless, the Left is forward-looking, while the Center Party is backward-looking. Does the representative think that the Left's government policy has strengthened the industry in the districts, and has it strengthened municipalities and regions in a way that most people throughout the country are well pleased with?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1369	Yeah, definitely. The question origin is de facto error. I think it's scary for us politicians to present the facts then until those degrees are wrong. Centralisation is still taking place, but centralisation is now partly stopped and is much later than it was. It is, of course, linked to strengthening the municipalities and making them more robust, so that they can be assigned more tasks, but not least to the industrial policy, the transport policy that the majority have pursued in the last eight years, with the Left as a clear, strong factor at the rudder. It's all about ensuring that the big industry, the real corner stone companies around the district of Norway, has a framework that makes them stand on the threshold of a whole new era, so that we've arranged for entrepreneurs and people who want to start a business, and have made that threshold considerably lower. So the answer is definitely yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1374	It is a pleasure that the representative is satisfied with what has happened to creating robust municipalities. Looking at regions or county municipalities, my next question is whether the representative is equally satisfied with the task assignment that followed with the regional reform and with the funds that have or have not followed with the new tasks. I can mention fishing ports as an example, without going into it specifically. Does the representative believe that the transfer of tasks and the associated funds have made the new regions better able to perform new and larger tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1379	Neither municipal reform nor regional reform are in progress. Had the Center Party helped to help the Left to get a lot more, bigger tasks, this would have looked different today. Now it is in a completely different way, after the Left came to power in 2013, that the new municipalities, much more municipalities and the new regions, can take on considerably greater governmental tasks, and thus strengthens both the regions, the municipalities and the districts at the expense of the state. If a few more attractive skills jobs in a number of small municipalities and make it more attractive to the business community and founders to localise there, it depends on helping municipalities to be attractive employers themselves. This is a very good starting point for local reform and regional reform to bring about for those who are going to lead further policy from the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1385	It would have been tempting to follow up on the regional reform and that the Central Party actually put in a number of new tasks for both municipalities and regions that the Left voted against, but we can take that discussion another time. I perceive that the representative said that centralisation has been slowed down during this period. If we look at the statistics from the SSB, in 2005 we had 249 municipalities with a decline in population. In 2013, after eight red-green years, we had 112. In 2019, 291 municipalities in Norway had a decline in population. How can the representative call it to slow down centralisation when the number of municipalities with a decline in population is more than double?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1392	I think the Left Party and the Center Party are some that this is one of the challenges that we have to do together to get good counterweights. But I would like to remind the representative, Mr. Greni, of the election campaign in 2017, when the party of the representative, Mr. Greni, and the party leader traveled the country and the beach and made the same claim – that this government, this plural, sees Norway's record in centralisation. A fact-finding was carried out by the NRK — definitely an incorrect claim; there is a completely different rate of centralisation. Social violence Vedum then answers: I run politics, I don't run facts. I think the Center Party is making a lot of sense, not to put the list too high, to realize that this is not a matter of skill, but that what we've been doing in the last eight years, has definitely been slowing down a development that we share the goal of stopping and turning around.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1397	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1402	Once again, one of the most important documents of Norwegian policy is lost through treatment, and municipalities get their steering signals on what they can expect from the state. This is actually the document that provides the basis for everyday welfare in our country. It is visited essentially by the municipalities and county councils. This old rapporteur recalls that the most frustrating thing for the municipalities was unforeseeable and the sudden weakening of framework conditions. One of the things I'm most happy to be able to stand here and say is that our government has provided a predictable framework for the municipal sector over these years. There will always be a need for more, but we have actually had a steady growth in the free income of municipalities throughout the Solberg government, and the number of ROBEK municipalities is now reduced to very few. 13 I think the last number is, maybe 14, because it came today. We're about to see the light at the end of the pandemic tunnel. A year ago, it was important to stress that municipalities would be able to cover their additional costs and income losses. That's what they got. I am pleased that the interaction committee with the KS-representation is still following this closely, and that through the consideration of this proposition it has been stressed that they need to have their mandate extended. Even though we see the light in the pandemic tunnel, we'll notice the effects of it for a long time. Globally, it will take a long time before we can declare the pandemic. The municipalities have done a hell of a job in Korona management. Infectious protection teams, management and will and the ability to turn their heels in a situation none of us had experience with, deserve great recognition. In particular, the groups of professionals who have served at risk of infection deserve to be brought forward. The health staff has worked day and night, and the cleaning team became even more important. I hope the cleaners actually retain the status they actually have, even after the pandemic. However, I would like to draw up in particular our teachers and kindergarten teachers, who have shown both the ability and the willingness to turn around and create alternative forms of teaching, but also because they have been in a situation where it has been almost impossible to think consistently about the protection of infection. You can't hold the meters of a child crying. Teachers and kindergarten teachers have been involved, entering and leaving quarantine, entering and leaving home school, and making a tremendous effort. Their families too have been affected by this. It has been noticed and needs to be remembered, also in how we think about the status and conditions of these working groups. So the income system sample. I am pleased that a sample has been reduced to look at the municipal income system as a whole, it has been fought hard by the Christian People's Party. This round of municipal reform has been completed. Then there is a natural time to see if the income system is correct. This exercise we have to do at regular intervals. The committee that will deliver the setting in one year has an important task, and the accumulation that is going to take place has an essential cause to break on. In this setting, we ask the government in the follow-up to assess the law related to the need for health and care services in municipalities other than the one to which you live and to which you tax. It has become more common for the elderly to join the cabin than before. It is good in a family and human dignity perspective, but raises some questions about local economy. Society is changing all the time and therefore the income system needs to be adjusted accordingly. Although I think the framework is good, and predictability has been delivered, I do not like the fact that the budgets have raised the element of the top-level funding scheme for resource-intensive services every year. We have to end this with. This is my last post as a representative in this room. I am of those who do not make re-elections, although I would like to have a finger in the game around the income system. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank good colleagues for a wonderful working community, even when we disagree. It is an immeasurably important force in Norwegian democracy and is not obvious. Our democracy needs to be done well, and those who have their work here are central democratic girls. Some time ago, I wrote a chronicle about the need for a democracy commission. Our democracy is constantly evolving. It's healthy in itself, but when we see trends in developments that challenge democracy as we know it, it's time to get a broad review and a broad societal debate, this just to mention something. We need a broad social dialogue, and that is why I hope a democracy commission is realized. I'll follow you from the sofa hook and maybe make new recordings. Thank you for me! I am promoting the proposals of the Christian People's Party are part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1427	The representative Torhild Bransdal has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1434	I see in the Christian People's Party programme for 2021-2025 that the party must uphold the generalist principle. I tried to get a clear answer from the Left, because last year the government dropped a sample to look at alternatives to the generalist municipality principle. Can the Christian People's Party now decide, before the elections, whether the generalist principle will also apply in the future, or will the Christian People's Party, if any, participate in and change it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1441	Like the Left, the Christian People's Party or anyone in the Party has nothing against getting any more knowledge. But our starting point is the generalist principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1446	The right in the Chamber today has confirmed that they are going to the elections on a new round of coercion. After the previous round of coercion, the Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) secured a majority in the Chamber of the Voluntary Decision, asking the Government to assume that good and voluntary processes should be the basis for changes in the municipal structure, and that any municipal mergers in the current period should be based solely on volunteering. Can the Christian People's Party guarantee that they will also be in charge of the volunteering line if there are new rounds of municipal reform in the next enlargement period?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1453	I haven't found anything in our program or our opinions that would suggest any position other than what Mr. Greni says, that it's the volunteer line that's going to last. It's our primary policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1458	So to a completely different volunteer: in connection with the previous municipal proposition, there was a big discussion about the volunteer agencies. There the representative did a great job and made sure that they are now funded, so that the smaller municipalities too can keep the volunteer centres. Can the Christian People’s Party guarantee that this will be the position for the future as well, and does the representative feel that it is guaranteed in the agreements concluded by the government now?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1463	Yes, our position about volunteer agencies is exactly the same. There are a lot of examples around the country of what they mean for all kinds of municipalities, not least for medium-sized and small municipalities, where they generate, among other things. readiness, which has been a very hot word now. I don't have enough knowledge to say that at all stages I can guarantee the agreement that is there, but I can guarantee that the Christian People's Party will always fight very much for the volunteers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1469	I would like to thank the representative Torhild Brandsdal for very good cooperation and for being nice to have as a colleague in the committee. I want to raise a matter that I know the representative is concerned about, and that is the growing child poverty. It is the municipalities that are responsible for the last safety network in that respect. Therefore, SV has now prioritised half a billion in our municipal structure, among other things. to ensure that families who need social assistance are not cut off their social assistance with child welfare. We know that everyone else gets paid, no matter how much they earn. The Christian People's Party has managed to protect the small increase the party has made, until the children are six years old. But can the representative explain why you do not want to protect this money for all the kids, including those who are young people? For those kids are actually quite expensive too.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1478	It's not that easy to answer, because the Christian People's Party is very concerned with child poverty – that is, an increase in the general child's rights, the introduction of the leisure card, it's always a basis – and one looks quite clearly at the point taken by the representative Andersen. The steering signal from the Christian People's Party has been that as far as possible, a person must keep child-rescue outside the basis of social assistance calculations. But it's actually a democratic government out in the municipalities. Some people might see that they're having trouble taking off that pot, so social assistance is getting smaller. But it is a challenge that the representative points to. Then I want to return it on the good cooperation. There has been an enrichment for my years at Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1487	I'll say a thousand thanks for that. But to the question I'm dealing with the representative, I think it's really a value question. What SV wants is that we should say that the municipalities should not be able to do this, because we know that there are some families who need this money, it is the families that have the least. Those who have more, of course, can strictly take care of themselves without this money, quite a lot of them, but not these families. Another question I could also imagine that the representative could say a little about is child protection and the designation of money. It is often the case that there is a draw about the money in the municipalities. The majority and the government say that you should increase the number of employees in child protection, and to be sure you have to designate the money. But now the government is doing the opposite. Why does the Christian People’s Party feel that this is right?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1496	Designation is a word I don't like at all, because it greatly limits the scope of action that local politicians have. However, using a word as full funding for things to be introduced into the municipal sector has always been, from all parties, recurring. One has a slightly different focus on it. Like the SV, the Christian People's Party is very concerned that one has to fully finance the reforms. There's a lot of debate about whether or not to do it, and it's very unfortunate, because if a transfer of tasks from state level down to community and state level, those tasks must be fully funded, in the view of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1501	But then I can recommend the representative Bransdal to vote on proposal No. 10, which is in the position, because it says that the Stortinget asks the government to ensure that increased costs to the municipalities resulting from the child protection reform are covered by the state – that is, that it is full funding. So I fully agree that this is an important thing. But when it comes to defending those who are the most vulnerable, i.e. children who are subjected to violence and care failure, I might have hoped that the representative thought it was a more important principle than municipal freedom. I would like to have municipal freedom and increased frameworks in such a way as to have opportunities to do so, but the security we are going to give to children who are subjected to violence and abuse, we cannot say that should vary from municipality to municipality. It must apply to children regardless of the municipality in which they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1508	It's important to have security where a living lives. So now I fell out. Can she take that challenge to me one more time?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1515	We allow that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1520	My question was that it is fine with municipal maritime administration and options, but when it comes to securing the children who need the help of child protection, there can be no difference between municipality and municipality – that we need to know that there are people there who can help them, and that that money is not used for anything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1525	Then I still have faith in local democracy and the local staff, because they can go around the individual and see the frameworks that are around, and put in the measures that should be. It is a prerequisite that there are good enough frames around them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1530	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1535	On Monday this week, the whole of Norway's country could hear the representative of the Progress Party, Njåstad, say at the NRK that the municipality economy in Norway is very good, and that the party would have a roof over the property tax because the municipalities, according to the reasoning of the Progress Party, do not need the money. I think a lot of people put morning coffee in their throats when they heard Njåstad, because it's hard to get closer to a blank untruth. In the last normal year, before the pandemic took place, and in the last year the Progress Party also put in government and had the finance minister, i.e. in 2019, delivered 250 municipalities operating results of less than 1 p.m., i.e. at 60 pst. by Norwegian municipalities in 2019 were in the category that KS believes are municipalities with limited economic space – in good Norwegian: bad advice. This marks the population and those working in the municipalities every day. They live with the consequences of civil cut-off policy and have to elevate budgets to what is the real need for services, not least for vulnerable groups, out in our society. Then the Progress Party is no longer in government, but unfortunately their policy lives on. In addition to corona expenditure, municipalities face new demands for the repayment of debt, which for the most indebted municipalities are in the many millions of classes each year, while the restriction on the collection of property taxes deprives municipalities of the opportunity to compensate for local challenges, whether it be geography or demography. It cannot continue that way without having consequences for the services the municipalities provide to the most vulnerable among us. Red proposes remedial measures for the most indebted municipalities in response to the new repayment requirements as an immediate measure for the local economy, as well as major transfers to the municipalities in general – I think I would like to say to the welfare of the inhabitants of our country. Then we also notice that it is the smaller municipalities that probably know the consequences of civil policy best, and that may also be the purpose behind it. After all, the government has not abandoned the municipal reform, despite the fact that the country's municipalities have produced their results through massively resource-intensive processes. Red believes that the financial incentives of government teams to impose further mergers must cease and that municipalities must have room to develop services rather than decommissioning municipalities and, in particular, to introduce new methods of cutting operating budgets as a result of the policies of the civil parties. With this I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1549	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1556	It is a requirement of this Chamber that, when managing the Community's resources, a budget should be drawn up for it — both an annual budget and a financial plan over a four-year period. This room has also underlined that this budget should be balanced and that it should be realistic and complete. Does the representative of Moxnes agree that it is a good requirement to address municipal government politicians?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1561	On a general basis, that is a reasonable requirement. On the other hand, if there is a large number of people who feed the municipalities in order to ensure the funding of tax relief for the wealthiest of the country, it may sometimes be necessary to make visible how the bourgeois cut policy affects the population in the form of weakened services – it is in the care of the elderly or in child protection, in the kindergarten, i.e. for most people’s well-being – and what is the real need for the inhabitants of our country, by having a so-called deficit budget so as to be able to trigger really sensible appropriations from the Grand Duchy. So 100 pst. the loyalty of these rigid rules can stand in the way of the necessary boost for the economy of the inhabitants of our municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1566	I thank you for the answer and am pleased that we agree that when you manage the values of the community, it should be done in a proper way. Red has now made a proposal asking the government to introduce remedial measures for municipalities and county councils with a particularly high loan debt in line with the new payment requirements of the Local Government Act. Then my question becomes to the representative of Moxnes: why is it right that the municipalities and county councils that have borrowed over-capacity – which must be understood as the premise for this proposal – should be rewarded with remedial measures over those who have actually behaved well and managed their resources in a responsible manner? Why should we reward those who have borrowed abilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1573	If that were the case that local people in the municipalities borrowed over the ability to finance parties, luxury and fun, I would be extremely sceptical about some kind of reward for that kind of business. I am sure that local elected representatives will do their best to safeguard citizens' rights and statutory rights to services, but that some municipalities have had such a tight economy that it has been necessary to raise loans because of a – relatively effective and targeted – civil policy that has weakened the economy as tasks have increased. That is why I think it is wrong to cut to the bone and further into and punish the inhabitants for the consequences of civil policy. Then it is right, we believe, to introduce remedial measures for those who are among the most indebted municipalities, not to punish the inhabitants for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1578	It is interesting to note that the representative of Moxnes thinks that people saw the coffee in the wreath of my conduct in Political Quarter. I think there was a significantly larger number of people who got problems with the coffee when they got the property tax bill in the post a little earlier than my analysis there. However, I wonder what the representative of Moxnes is thinking about taxing property. The other red-green ones – now one may not be very good friends today with the red-green ones, but in the past one has at least defined itself as more friendly to that side than to us – have been sparing to explain what they want to do with the property tax, but perhaps Moxnes, who is free-spoken, can be clear about what he wants. Is it about setting up the prom in the next period, or is it going to keep 4 prom, so that people don't put the coffee in the wrench of a red-green property tax calculation after the election?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1585	Red believes that local populace must have the opportunity — as long as we have today’s system — to increase revenue in order to finance the necessary well-being. Here in the city the left-hand side won the elections in 2015, after decades of bourgeois rule, to introduce a property tax, but with large deductions. So we protect people most, but we tax those who have the most expensive homes. That's what we won because we said we should spend that money on strengthening the well-being of Oslo. That deal people thought was fair and fair. But you have to, we think, have a large enough bottom to protect those who have flats of the usual standard. So we're for a bottom subtraction, but the Progress Party is to set a roof. After all, the party of progress will protect the richest, who have the most expensive dwellings. That's the reverse of Robin Hood. It's a kind of policy to protect the richest against this. We think that is completely wrong. If you have a cabin palace, you can pay a little more property tax. If you have a normal dwelling, you don't – here in the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1590	Municipal economy was a theme in Moxnes' posts when he was done annoying himself over the Progress Party on radio. It almost looked as if he had not followed up on what is really described in Norwegian municipalities. When there was a government change in 2013, Norwegian municipalities had 30 billion. kr on book. Today they have $68 billion. kr on book. So it's going to be $38 billion. kr more money that is there today than it was when we took over. How does it harmonise with the rhetoric that Moxnes used when it relates to the state of the local economy, when Norwegian municipalities have 38 billion. kr that they can use for exactly what they want? Will Moxnes adjust his rhetoric based on the knowledge he's now gained in experience, that one has 38 billion. kr, or does he still mean what he said instead?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1595	The Progress Party is probably listening a lot to the Ministry of Finance. We listen to people mostly out there in the country and reality out in the municipalities, and we know that the description of gold and green forests, that it's like running out of honey and milk in our municipalities, is just nonsense. What is the reality is that in too many municipalities we see that the bone is cut, that it is cut in all that is not required by law, and that there are also gaps in the law, that the caregivers and the elderly do not get what they require, that child protection is lacking resources, and that there is also a need for perpetrators in kindergartens, which they do not get, because they cannot afford temporary workers in the absence of children in our kindergartens. So if you listen to people most and not just to the economists in the Ministry of Finance, the Progress Party will discover that there is a difference in the reality described in these figures and in the overviews and plans of the government, and what is out there among people. If you drop tax cuts to the rich, we can afford well-being. That's the good news: we can afford without the tax cuts of the rich.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1600	We listen very much to those out there. The challenge here is that the money is available in municipalities, so you can use it instead of salting it down on books. I also notice that the Moxnes representative's analysis was that there were small municipalities that had the biggest challenges. I'm wondering what Moxnes' thoughts are about the income system. Today, we have a system that makes it pay to be a little bit small, because one gets a base increment of 0.5 to 1 factor, which makes it the smallest municipalities that get the most per capita. Would Red further favour the smallest municipalities in the income system, which should now look at when a selection comes, or would you like to go in the opposite direction? In that case, it will mean that one takes quite a lot of money from the municipality of Moxnes and gives it to small municipalities around the district of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1609	Like many others in our country, we are concerned about centralisation, depopulation of the districts. We want a Norway where people can live outside the big cities too – create values, live a good life, make use of the whole country. Then we also need an active district policy, not least an active industrial and industrial policy, on which the Progress Party may not be fully involved. In our budget statement for the current year, we're proposing 7 billion. kr more to the municipalities in free money, of which 500 million. SEK in increased regional grants and SEK 4.8 billion. kr more in earmarked grants to municipalities in the case of social assistance, kindergarten and the drug field, and €0.5 billion. more to the counties, which would compensate for the transfer of tasks, and also more to the counties to compensate for professional, county and regional investment. So we can afford to expand the welfare of both the city and the country – because we're dropping the tax cuts to the richest.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1615	I think there are few things that we agree on as much as there is no need for community reform. The party considering voting in favour of proposal No. 29: ‘The Government is asked to propose the winding-up of all the financial incentives for new municipal mergers.’ At the same time, I must have made it clear whether we believe the same in view of that proposal, because we do not want to continue the incentives introduced by the government, and we do not want to continue this by punishing so-called voluntary small municipalities, etc., but the Senter party is positive to voluntary community mergers, and we want to keep funding for investigations, etc. where the municipalities themselves take the initiative. Can we interpret this as the removal of the new arrangements that have been put in place since 2013? In that case, the Central Party will absolutely support proposal No. 29.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1627	It's a proper interpretation. What we want is volunteering. If there is a wish for it in the population of several municipalities that want to join together, they will of course be allowed to do so. But then you can't say that it keeps one municipality wanting it, not the other. Then there'll be some kind of coercion. ‘It takes two to tango’ also in the municipalities, we believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1632	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1637	The government will take Norway safely out of the corona crisis by creating more, including more and ensuring a good welfare offer to its citizens. In order to achieve this, we need to do what we can to ensure jobs and income for the individual and to ensure the ability of municipalities to provide good services. Good and predictable municipal economy is essential to enable municipalities to deliver the services that citizens expect and require in everyday life – safe kindergartens, a good school, dignified care services, functioning public transport and clean water in the jump, to mention something. For almost eight years, the government has ensured that municipalities have room for action to deliver. Since 2013, the free income of the municipal sector has increased by an estimated 35 billion. I am not taking the extra billions that were added in connection with the coronary apathy. This corresponds to an annual real growth of 1.4 pst. In the state budget for 2021, we estimated the free income of the municipal sector to a total of 412 billion. kr. Overall, the economic situation in the municipal sector is good. In 2020, the local government sector as a whole received a net operating surplus of 3 pst. of the revenue. Every year since 2015, the local government sector has achieved an operating result that is better than or at the level of TBU’s 2 pst recommendation. Due to good operating results in recent years, the number of municipalities in ROBEK has fallen sharply. At the beginning of June 2021 only 14 municipalities were registered in ROBEK. In comparison, the figure was 46 in 2013. Municipalities and county councils have constant reserves. At the end of 2020, the available funds amounted to approximately 68 billion. kr against about 30 billion. kr at the end of 2013. With this as a rear carpet, I have to say that I am a little surprised at the descriptions given by the municipal economy in this room. We have more than enough to disagree about politics if we're not going to try to figure things out along the way. I would therefore encourage the representatives of the opposition to take over the actual figures that we see in the local government sector. It is a very honest thing to want the local government to get more money than they have received, but to say that the local government has been hungry during this government, it is simply not right. And I think we should be too good to think of that kind of thing in a debate that concerns people's well-being. The municipalities have made an outstanding effort in the meeting with the coronary apathy. This is primarily about the protection of infectious diseases and the protection of vulnerable groups. But it is also about the services we expect from municipalities every day that have been provided in new and very demanding circumstances. The government has always been clear that the municipal sector is to be compensated for tax losses, loss of income and additional costs associated with the pandemic. Therefore, together with the KS, the government set up a working group to identify the economic impact on the municipal sector of the pandemic. In 2020, the local government sector received about 18 billion. kr in additional appropriations justified in the coronary apathy, of which 12 billion. kr was compensation for additional and minor income. Based on the conclusion of the working group report, the municipal sector as a whole is compensated for the economic impact of the pandemic in 2020. At the same time, there are variations between municipalities as to how hard they have been hit by the coronary apathy, the severity of the measures they have taken and the extent to which the economic consequences have been. Therefore, a large part of the compensation is provided as a discretionary measure. The Ministry has, and will continue to have, close contact with the state administrators on the situation in municipalities. In 2021 it is granted and proposed more than 23 billion. extra kr to the municipal sector as a result of the coronary apathy. This includes $1.9 billion. kr that has been granted as a separate compensation for the tax failure in 2020. When the working group presents a new report in August, the government will come back with a new assessment of the economic impact on the local government sector after that. I have also noticed that a unanimous committee is asking the Government to extend the term of office of the working party. The government continues to invest in the municipal sector in 2022 with a growth in free income of between 2 and 2,4 billion. kr. This comes at the top of the tax estimate for 2021 has been adjusted by 3.2 billion. kr. These funds shall be continued until 2022. The growth of free income gives local authorities room for action after additional expenditure on demography and pensions is covered. As a result, the government is facilitating municipalities to continue to develop services for the benefit of citizens and businesses, despite the fact that oil revenue growth will decline and the number of older people will rise in the coming years. It is estimated that the Stortinget will take several request decisions to the government today. The Committee shall include, inter alia: access to resource-demanding services, holiday relief and highways, to mention something. The government will come back to these proposals in the State budget for 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1671	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1676	I can probably start by stating that the Council of State and I disagree on how much money the municipalities get. In the Workers' Party, we have greater ambitions than this government. We've had that all along, because we think there's a greater need than what the government has put up with. As I have said before, I am still pleased that there are record few municipalities in the ROBEK register. That's good, even though we also disagree on why it's like that. Today, we are really discussing the framework for the municipal economy next year. Last year we discussed a cut in the property tax in Bø municipality in Nordland, and this year I thought we might be able to discuss a cut in the income tax in Bø municipality in Nordland. I note that the rapporteur there has announced that this should now be the case. It's within the municipal law, but what does the Council of State think that we should now also have a negative tax competition on the income tax in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1683	I am not aware that the municipality of Bø will reduce the income tax, but the representative is quite right that in that case it will be within the municipal self-government to do so. Doing so will have some economic consequences for the municipality. I take this into account – given the round we have also had on the importance of the property tax for the tax entrance of the municipality of Bø – that the municipality itself makes a thorough investigation of, or addresses the department to investigate in advance of such a decision, so that there are no surprises associated with that particular point. But to the fundamental discussion about what municipalities should be allowed to do, and what they should not do, I think that we should now await this income system selection we have set up, such as, among other things. shall consider these issues and that in the wake of them we should have a discussion of the extent to which the tax law of the municipalities will go and the consequences of individual municipalities choosing to set themselves up differently from the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1690	Thank you for that answer. I am very pleased that the council of State takes up the requirement for the municipality to issue a proposal for a decision properly before the decision is actually taken, because last year the municipality did not address itself to the department just to get help to investigate, they also addressed the department to get extra money to cover unforeseen losses. That's what you got. Now the Council of State has made it clear that this is where you have to think through the matter. I have raised the matter. Can the Council of State then clarify to Stortinget that the municipality of Bø may not be able to meet the costs resulting from the possibility of reducing the income tax on its inhabitants in its municipal budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1699	Now I have not received any enquiry from Bø on this matter, so there is a hypothetical problem here, but if a municipality would choose to reduce the income tax, I can say that it is not appropriate to compensate the municipality for the loss it has, in addition to that resulting from the income system.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1704	Then I say a thousand thanks for that answer. I've remembered that. It's also been recorded, so we're going to follow it closely. I instead invited the Council of State to express what he thinks about negative tax competition. The sample for the income system has been reduced on the basis of a proposal from the Workers' Party for an overall review. I agree that we need to do it at regular intervals. But: Is it such that the Council of State recognizes that this kind of negative tax competition in – let's say – a district municipality similar to Bø, but not necessarily Bø, could have any unfortunate consequences? For example, you want to do this. could have a change in housing patterns, maintain the job you had in a neighbouring municipality and have a shift in tax revenue. Then there is both a loss in the sense that the tax cake, i.e. the income of the community, becomes smaller, and there is also a distribution problem because the tax revenue moves from one municipality to the neighbouring municipality. What does the Council of State think about the kind of consequences of such a negative tax competition that we can have?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1714	Let me first say that I think it is excellent that we have municipalities that think outside the box. We need a lot, a lot more of that. In this room today, there has only been talk about how much more money the state has to provide in all possible areas towards the municipalities. In fact, in meeting a significantly smaller space of action in the coming years, we need to think a lot more about innovation, digitisation and new technologies, but also new ways of solving services. That it's supposed to be outside the box, it's good. But then sometimes thinking outside the box has some consequences that are unintentional. One of them is that the income system is not set up today to deal with the fact that municipalities actually exercise their opportunity to have a lower rate than other municipalities. It was to prevent all the other municipalities from carrying Bøs' loss in its entirety, that the department intervened and said no, you actually have to cover the initial loss yourself, and then we cover the rest of the loss by means of beauty. We tried to correct something pending the investigation of the income system committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1721	Now there is a multiple-choice question: KS believes that the nursery norm is underfunded by 1 billion. NOK 2022. Then is alternative a: Do the Council of State agree with that understanding? And further, option b: If not, the Council of State still believes that the increase that the government has introduced into the budgets here, less other unfunded tasks, such as: the fixed medical scheme, and with the increased pension costs and the demographic costs that come at the top, are sufficient to finance the nursery norm?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1726	We've calculated how the compensation for the nursery norm should be, based on the same principles that have been there all along, and that were laid down when the Senter party put in government, for similar types of leadership and reforms. Of course, I have noticed the KS hearing opinion on this point. They have pointed this out for many years, and I am of the opinion that this has been compensated for through the income system and the transfers that the local government sector receives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1733	The announcement of the perspective, to which the Council of State also refers, shows that we have a financial space for action in the future. What all politicians tend to say when they're giving speeches is that there are people who are the most important factor we have, who create the values in Norway. What we do when we invest in the community, as SV will, is that we ensure that even more people get involved in the growth, are going to do well, get good education, get opportunities to retrain if they lose work, get good health care if they get sick, etc. So what's the reason why the Right won't use the future space of action to somehow process the most important input we have in our society, namely the individual people, but instead gives most of the money to those who actually do well from before?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1738	I fully agree with the representative that we must bet on competence. We have to bet on people. We need to ensure that young people who are currently out of the labour market have an opportunity to come back and succeed again. We must definitely ensure that fewer people fall away from higher education, and we must make sure that the professions get a lift. All of this is part of the government's competence policy. We are concerned with continuing education. We're concerned that all people deserve a chance to participate. Then we are also concerned that we should not serve Norwegian district companies on a silver barrel for foreign capital. We're served in Norway that we have local strong owners who invest just in local people, and who don't initially shut down the business if it's more attractive to produce from Poland than from Brumunddal, to say the same. It's a shame, I don't think SV admits that this is a little bit more complicated than just tax relief to the rich against Community interests. The big money under this government has gone to strengthen the community. It's still going to be like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1745	The proposition states that as of the 2023 municipality proposal, there will be no indication of growth in total income of municipalities. What will be the predictability of the local government sector when it comes to budgets? And finally, a question after the rounds that have been here now, where several representatives from the Right have confirmed that it is relevant to new rounds of coercion: can the Council of State also confirm that it will be relevant in the next period if the Right is still in power?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1752	As far as the last point is concerned, I have no idea that something else has been said in this room today than what I have answered innumerable times this spring, thanks to the representatives of the Central Party. If that answer has not sunk yet, I would like to repeat it today, but I don't think it should be necessary, because this should be reasonably clear to the representative, who was present during all these question hours where the representatives of the Central Party have addressed that very question. On the question of total income and free income, we see that the most important thing is to get a signal about the growth of free income. Total income is difficult to estimate at that time. That's why we think it appropriate to focus on the free income when it comes to the municipal proposition. Then we'll signal it this year. We have no reason for this, it is simply because we believe that the important control signal lies in the growth of the free revenues.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1759	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1764	The government works actively to facilitate living communities throughout Norway, where natural resources are used, and where there are good and equivalent welfare services. The government is pursuing a broad rural policy for growth and development across the country. We have invested heavily in a number of policy areas, which benefit people and businesses throughout the country: transport, competence, education, health and care, digitisation, a low tax level for Norwegian companies that create jobs and values. The government's ambition is that people should be able to work and live throughout the country. We have therefore made record investments in roads and other infrastructure. Now the state is also going to commit itself to the financing of county roads for the first time, and we are also now reducing holiday prices for people in the districts. This binds the country together, and both people and goods come forward faster and safer now than before this government joined. Good digital solutions allow businesses to find new business opportunities, job creation can become multi-site, and the public sector can continue to provide good services to those living in the districts. It can motivate more young people to stay or to establish themselves in the countryside. I don't think the young people move to the districts because municipal bureaucrats sit in a municipal office. It's about making the districts attractive, that we have municipalities that cultivate their characteristics, that create their homes, that facilitate the availability of exciting and safe jobs, that there are good services there, and that there are good cultural services. The rapid digitisation of public services is a major decentralisation reform and a simplification reform for our citizens. While one had to travel to physical offices far away, stand in line for hours, get away from work, we have now moved the public offices home to people. This, combined with the roll-out of high-speed broadband across the country, is important district policy. Therefore, we should embrace digitisation, because it reduces distances, and it simplifies everyday life to people all over Norway. The public sector digitalisation strategy sets the stage for success in this work towards 2025. This is a common strategy for the whole public sector, so the municipal sector is central to the implementation of the measures of the strategy, and the government has very good cooperation with the KS on this. The strategy also focuses on strengthening cooperation with private businesses. The paper on data economy and innovation places particular emphasis on business development with data. Access to public data and competences in small and medium-sized enterprises, SMEs, are important prerequisites for this. The government recently presented the magnification message on our common digital core wall, on mobile, broadband and Internet services. During the pandemic, this core wall has been crucial to keeping the country going at home offices and home school. In the Communication, we describe how the digital core wall contributes to the green shift, facilitates new industry and increased productivity, and allows the use of welfare technology and distance tracking in the home, so that people can live longer at home. The digital base wall is central when we're dealing with some of the biggest challenges society faces. It has to be available everywhere, it has to be safe, and it has to be robust for all residents and businesses throughout Norway. That's why we're now putting up a real power cap to secure high-speed broadband around the country by 2025. We are facilitating further market-based expansion, we are still going to grant broadband in the districts, and in the autumn's 5G frequency auction, we also launched a completely separate district package of over half a billion dollars. Today, the number one priority in high-speed development is the expansion of scattered districts, and yesterday, the government also came up with proposals to secure the Internet for everyone across the country through a targeted government procurement system for households and businesses that do not currently have access to basic broadband. Soon the government will present three new district strategies. It's because we believe that the local economy is important, but it's also important that the different parts of the country take advantage of their competition to create good, safe and exciting jobs, so that people want to move to the districts and live around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1783	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1788	I wonder why it is a priority task for a Council of State with special responsibility for the districts to work to coerce as much of the district municipalities as possible, as the representative Olemic Thommess from the Right confirmed that the Right wants to implement the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1794	Since the representative Lauvås asks what the Right is about to do in the next few years, I can answer as the Chairman of the Right Programme Committee, who has just presented its proposal for a programme for which policies we are going to implement in the next four years. There's nothing to say about the right coercion of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1799	It was strange. I thought the Right had its national meeting, but the Olemic Thommess confirmed here that there was a wild policy from the Right to continue with the municipal mergers, and then through coercion, for the next four years. It was said in a line chord shift here, as I perceived it, but it's now. Then I understand that you do not agree with yourself in the Right. Governments are talking about jobs in districts. Then I think I almost have to ask why the Right was and is so eager to centralize the jobs that are actually located in the districts, and which are also an offer to those who live in the districts. I'm thinking about e.g. the traffic stations, which, for the interior of Eastfold, have 50000 to 60000 inhabitants, were to be moved to Ski for centralisation. The offer got worse for those living in Inner Eastfold. Tax offices have been forced to move. Why are you so busy moving these jobs away, when the council says the opposite, that she wants to create jobs out there?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1806	First I have to clarify something: I sat and listened to the change of lines with the Olemic Thommess, and he said nothing about the fact that in the Right's program it says that we have programmed to coerce municipalities for the next four years. I've gone a little bit into the figures for centralisation of state jobs. The interesting thing is that if you, for example, look at the states where the Workers' Party is now in power and has been in charge over the last few years, and where they have had the opportunity to show what policies they are implementing, it is a massive centralisation of these jobs from the most scattered strata, in particular central city classes 5 and 6, to municipalities of centrality classes 2, 3 and 4. So this happens on the guard of the Workers' Party when they sit and control county municipalities around. In contrast to the Labour Party, the Right believes that jobs in the private sector, which generate tax revenues and provide good welfare services, are more important than the creation of new state jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1813	I would like to follow up on the previous question: if we look at right-wing Agder, Birkenes has lost 16 state jobs, Marnardal has lost 10, and Kvinesdal has lost 10. These are incredibly important for these small municipalities in order to maintain a professional environment and to attract new skills. Agder is right-wing and has been right-wing, so the council has to tell me what's good about this huge internal centralization in the county. Finally, after the discussion that was here instead, I hope that the Council of State can answer a yes/no question. Is the Right going to go for coercion in the next period, or can the Council of State guarantee that it's not applicable to the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1820	When I tell you about the centralization that is taking place in the states where the Central Party and the Workers' Party are in power, it is an example that shows that the state politicians who choose to do so do it because – I think – they are absolutely sure that they will the very best of the inhabitants. I don't think the Central Party politicians sit and centralize because they don't even think it has any value. I can repeat the answer: as the leader of the Right Program Committee, I have formulated the text in the Right Program, where there is nothing to say that the Right is going to carry out coercive mergers in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1827	I thank you for the answer, but there was no answer to any of my questions: what is it that makes right-wing Agder have a massive internal centralization in terms of state jobs? It's the Right that has run there, and it's the Right that controls there. I do not think that has anything to do with the rapporteurs of the Central Party. The second question is, can the Council of State now confirm that the Right will not go for coercion in the next period? I did not ask what is in the program. Can the voters be sure that there will be no new coercive mergers with the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1834	In the Right, we deal with the Right National Meeting Decision. That's what we're going to vote for. Then we'll see how strong the Right will be after the election, before we sit down and negotiate a government platform. But what's in the Right Program is our promise to the voters. If the representative does not want to deal with what is said there, I would like to take the programming and read it from this pulpit, if desired. When it comes to Agder, the difference between Central Party politicians and Right-wing politicians is that we trust that our politicians locally are the best ones to make decisions for their municipality and their county. I also trust that the Center Party, in the states where the Center Party is now conducting a large-scale centralization, will do so because it is thought that this provides better services to the citizens. So I have that confidence in the Central Party's state politicians, but I record that the Central Party does not have that confidence in its state politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1841	I actually draw myself to let go of hearing the red-green poses the same question once again, and that they're just occupied with an answer to a question they've been given many times before, and they don't have any reason to worry about, all the time we've had the same multiple for four years and there hasn't been a single coercive decision. I note that there is a touching concern for state jobs in the districts. It's like the big one. For my part, I am much more concerned about the private workplaces, which are really at risk of a red-green government, which can set up fees, and which can weaken the competitiveness of Norwegian private ownership. That is what is the major challenge for Norwegian district councils at any government change. There is no number of government jobs and whether they are centralised or not. That's how it's going to go with all the private businesses. My question is: can the district minister use one minute to warn against a government change by agreeing with my claim that private jobs are the most important?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1850	Yes. I have to say that during this big period I think that's the best question I've got, so I thank you very much for the challenge. I fully agree with the representative of Njåstad that this is the biggest threat for Norwegian municipalities, especially district municipalities, if the Central Party, together with the Workers' Party, is to manage Norwegian municipalities – and Red and the Environmental Party The Greens have a hand on the steering wheel. They will prevent the EEA Agreement – if the Central Party receives what they want – and contribute to the fact that Norwegian companies are not able to sell their goods on the largest market. They will also prevent Norwegian ownership and strengthen the opportunities for foreign investors to come here and buy and run businesses. It is about increasing taxes and taxes. Should we once again get a debatable commitment to transport, more regulation and increased bureaucracy? It will prevent the creation of jobs on which the districts are fully dependent. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1857	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1862	If people want to live in the municipalities, and if companies want to establish themselves in the municipalities, there must be modern municipalities with good cultural and leisure opportunities, with a high-quality school, and you have to be sure that you get help if you get sick. This is one of the reasons why SV prioritises the local economy so high, because we want very high standards in the community we're going to have. That's also why we've given priority to, for example. grants to ensure that there is decentralised higher education that is located around the country, because it is absolutely necessary, in addition to the digital infrastructure, where we now have a plan that shows that we need to invest 1 billion. kr every year for four years in order to achieve this objective. SV adds it to its layout. Does the government recognize the need for 1 billion? kr every year for four years to ensure that all receive digital infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1870	No, because we're building the infrastructure in a smarter way. Where SV is very busy distributing, we would rather spend the money in a smarter way. Because we've added up to this 5G frequency auction, we see that we need to spend less on taxpayers' money to roll out 5G across the country. We see that Sweden now looks at Norway and how we solve it, to do it in a smarter way. But we're going to spend over half a billion dollars on high-speed broadband only this year. There is such a pressure on broadband development that you almost have not been able to take it away. We are in line with the country in Europe that has the best networks possible. We have a great starting point when we start the high-speed development, which we've said we're going to do by 2025. All households and businesses in Norway shall have access to high-speed broadband.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1875	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1880	When we had the debate on last year's municipal bill, the uncertainty surrounding the pandemic was great. None of us could predict what progress would be, and still there is a lot of uncertainty. But the year that has passed has shown us that safe governance and cooperation have brought us through the crisis so far, with fewer lives lost and society better intact than in many other countries. But many individuals, families, businesses and organizations have suffered great losses, and most of us know this from their own family, friends or neighborhoods. There is no doubt that the pandemic has set deep tracks that it will take time to heal. Therefore, like several others, I would like to send a great thank you to Kommune-Norge for the efforts that have been made and are still being made to ensure that we get through the pandemic well and hopefully soon can establish a normal situation. It has cost attention and effort. We see in our home municipalities, for my part Kristiansand, how employees in all sectors have been working to maintain the level of service and provide services to the citizens in this difficult situation. We know that the work on infection tracking, vaccination and follow-up has been demanding, that education and daily work in schools and kindergartens have been very challenging, and that cleaning and service services have been more important than ever. We've seen how Kommune-Norge really is the tribe of our welfare services. The year we've been behind us has also shown us how important it has been that the government has been clear throughout the coronary crisis that municipalities should be compensated for tax failure, loss of income and additional expenditure related to the pandemic. It has contributed to security. The municipal sector is compensated for the impact of the pandemic by 2 billion in 2020. kr in addition to the estimated effects. Nevertheless, there are variations between municipalities and county municipalities in how hard they have been hit by the pandemic and the extent to which the economic consequences have been. Therefore, it has been important that part of the compensation has been provided as discretionary means. The government has followed up both in the budget for 2021 and now in the revised national budget with new funds, with the promise to follow further developments and come back to the Grand Duchy with a fresh assessment of the impact after the cooperation group, including the KS, has presented its next report for the autumn. The long-term consequences of the pandemic are still uncertain, but we know that municipalities will have an important role to play in the next phase as well as in dealing with the aftermath of the pandemic. It's going to take a lot of people when we're going to normalize society, reopen and normalize the provision of services. I am glad that the municipal plan for the next year takes account of that and adds up to a real growth in the free revenues of between 2 billion. kr and 2,4 brd. kr. The Government Parties and the Advance Party have also this year found together on the municipal structure. Now these parties have been together on eight state budgets and an equal number of revised budget lines. It has provided security and demonstrated management capability. In the case of opposition lots, there is a long way between the three billion required by the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party, the seven billion that Red will have, and the ten billion that SV wants. How this gap and the uncertainty between potential cooperation parties after a choice for the autumn will turn out, we are not going to get any answers to this today. Finally, a little comment on a single area that lies on my heart. It concerns the reform of child protection — its content and funding. When the reform enters into force in 2022, municipalities will be given a new and greater responsibility, including: for the full funding of foster homes, and in the long term, EUR 2,1 billion. move from the State to the municipalities to follow up the aims of the child protection reform. The reform gives municipalities both increased responsibilities and increased scope for action. I'm glad of the reform. At the same time, I would like to stress that there is a great responsibility here for the magnificence and government to follow up a group of particularly vulnerable children and young people and not least to follow up the commitment of competence that is sought and needed in this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1899	Let me start by tearing apart the uncertainty the representative Tveiten Benestad has for what is going to happen with the Norwegian municipality economy if we get a government change. What has been raised above any doubt, even in view of the suggestion she herself had, is that there is more money for the municipalities than this government has proposed, and there is going to be higher growth than this government has been able to deliver, just as we averaged to deliver better growth in the municipal budgets when we were in government. So there's no reason why the uncertainty representative Tveiten Benestad is trying to construct. For over a year, municipalities have made a formidable effort to prevent infection and manage infectious diseases. In many places there has been a continuous crisis, and many have done much more than what can be demanded of them. Fortunately, I think we can all now see light at the end of the tunnel. Let me underline: we're not done with the pandemic, but we're moving towards a situation that looks more like the normal we had before the pandemic. This does not mean that changes in the local government sector will end. Municipalities and counties are facing major changes that they need to adapt to. In some places there is a sharp increase in the population, in others there is a dramatic decrease. Major changes in the population require changes in school structure, childcare facilities and care for the elderly. Whether capacity is to be reduced or increased, it actually requires investment. The digitization continues, and it accelerates. People want new services and digital contact with the municipality at any time. It requires competence and equipment. Then it will be a little special to hear the State Council of Hofstad Helleland stand here and boast that you will now start investing in digital solutions across the country from the state, when we have heard other government councils for many years, for example. State Councillor Ketil Solvik-Olsen, talk about the fact that it is completely hopeless that the public should take responsibility for ensuring it. But we get to welcome the government after. So we're not done with the crisis when we're fighting covid-19. The loss of biodiversity, fauna, flora and natural habitats is a threat to the world as we know it. In terms of global warming due to CO 2 emissions, the latest updates show that we are now heading towards a warming in the Arctic – affecting large parts of Norway – which is three times the global average. In practice, it means an average increase in temperature of about 10 degrees Celsius. The Arctic, as we know it, will be lost. Global warming brings with it an unpredictable weather pattern. There are more floods, sprawl, forest fires, soil erosion, rock leaps, droughts and loss of ecosystems such as clean water, air, etc. This already affects people's lives, it's not something that's ever going to happen in the future, and it's going to affect people more and more. That is why the world has to change to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, and the government has to help the members and observers of the Arctic Council take the lead in the negotiations at COP26 in Glasgow this autumn. Norway shall and must take part in the responsibility for the world's carbon neutralisation by 2050. In this way, the local community sector is crucial to the transformation of society – because in its own activities and through its purchases it has a large economic activity that needs to become carbon-neutral, but also because the municipalities and the counties exercise authority in land-related matters, transport matters and a wide range of other areas that affect Norway’s ability to achieve our national objectives and the international commitments we have taken on us. It is our opinion that Norwegian municipalities and counties have a responsibility to follow this up in their policies and exercise of authority. If they are to succeed – these major changes and dealing with the crises we face – it is a prerequisite that we also have resources and forces to do so. For many years, therefore, we have been above the government in view of the growth we have suggested for the local government sector. It's to make sure you have the resources you need. As my partymate said earlier today, we must be honest – 3 billion. Not all problems are fixed. But three billion. kr in the year, and a level of 3 billion. kr higher than the government has set up, every single year, becomes a significantly larger room for action over time. It's not about spending and wasting money, it's about investing in the community – the small and large communities that together make up Norway, and the Norway that has some major challenges we're going to deal with. That's what the Labour Party we want to do best by standing together, not by the fact that the individual should be his own successful smith.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1923	Norway has come a long way with digitization. We couldn't handle covid-19 as we've done it, but our society was well organized for the use of digital technology. Many of my time at Stortinget I have spent on technology and digitisation – our fantastic starting point and our possibilities. Today, I want to use my speaking time on the challenges. The interaction and coordination of digitisation work in municipalities, county municipalities and state enterprises shall provide the basis for the development of related services for residents, voluntary organisations and the business community. The proposition shows that municipalities and county councils have a broad responsibility for basic services that are important in their everyday lives. In the digitalisation strategy, the government has decided to develop related services within these seven life events: having children, having a seriously ill child, losing and finding a job, being new in Norway, dying and inheriting, starting and running a voluntary organization, and starting and running a business. Digitalisation is cross-sectoral. The establishment of related services requires the involvement of a number of actors at state and municipal level. The government has taken a number of measures to modernise and digitise. Today, I want to bring forward a special one, because the aim of the digitalisation strategy is for all citizens, all business and voluntary organisations to communicate digitally with the public sector. The digital competence in Norway is good and better than in many other countries. Nevertheless, a recent study by Competence Norway shows that 600,000 inhabitants are at risk of falling outside the digital field. The fraction has fallen from 24 pst. to 14 pst. in the last few years, but at the same time, we need an offensive initiative and not least an understanding of what is and will be the right measures to meet digital outreach. Developments show that there are mainly the same groups that we saw before – it's older, it's unemployed, it's immigrants, and it's people with social challenges – who stand on the sidelines. The provision of competence in itself is not enough. It is not always the digital services themselves that are the barrier, rather there may be knowledge of Norwegian administration, there may be low problem solving skills, and there may also be few help facilities that are the barrier. Life in phases can be too difficult for us to tackle the digital. It could be cognitive failure, it could be dementia, it could be functional loss, to mention something. Then it must be possible to be analog. It must also be possible to get help, safe and legal. Knowledge is important if we are to put the right measures into action. That's why we need to know. We need to know who the vulnerable groups for digital outreach are, and we need to know how we can achieve an equivalent service provision and related services in all phases of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1942	Municipal economy may not sound very sexy, but it's about the welfare state of Norway. It's about how we can live our lives. It's about what's most important to us, no matter what kind of life phase we're in. It's about the children, it's about family life, it's about the care of the elderly. It's about infection protection, infection testing, infection tracking and vaccination. It's about business development. It's about town and town. It is about the most remote jobs in many communities. It's about the first line in the welfare state of Norway, about where we live our lives, and there's a lot of jobs. That it is possible to live the good life both in the city, in the drama, where I live today, and in the village, on the Scotselv, where I have grown up, is also about politics. Covid-19 has affected all countries, but how people feel during the coronary epidemic varies enormously from country to country. That we are doing much better than very many other countries is about the social democratic welfare state, a strong welfare state and a community where we can provide jobs and workers throughout the country. The starting point of the Labour Party is, as always, a stronger welfare state regardless of where people live, and the size of the wallet. If we're going to succeed, there are some assumptions that need to be put in place. Firstly, we must listen to and bet on all the great workers in the first line. Health professionals, who have gone to work every day, are well aware that the risk of infection is there, the nurses, those who have even travelled from Namsos to Drammen to assist with the necessary intensive skills when needed, teachers and kindergarten workers and many other professional groups that keep the wheels running in the welfare state of Norway. If we are to succeed in a strong and well-functioning public sector, we must bet on these professionals. This is where the Workers' Party's trust reform comes in – codetermination. Why should it be that the people who work with our common well-being should have at least participation in the labour market? Tripartite cooperation must be strengthened in the public sector. Trustees shall be a natural part of management. We must have leaders in the public sector who are not schooled in American states, but schooled in the Norwegian model. Why should it be that seven out of ten health professionals have to shop watches and work part-time? We need to tighten up the legislation so that we ensure workers' full and permanent jobs. We must clearly say no to privatisation. We don't need Swedish right-wing states in our welfare. Welfare funds shall be made available to well-being, not to fatten the accounts of individuals. We need to put an end to forms, reporting that creates bureaucracy and eats up time that could have been spent on the inhabitants. We also need a policy to ensure proximity to welfare services. Then we need a state that stands up for the districts, not a right-wing government that pierces the wheels and centralizes and stabs the districts. We don't need a right-wing government obsessed with coercion. We need a state that wants to set up a better local economy, so that we get better welfare offers, as the Workers' Party proposes with its significant strengthening of the local economy. We don't need a right-wing government that centralizes preparedness and police. We need an active state that ensures security and preparedness throughout the country. We don't need a right-wing government that doesn't understand what farmers and agriculture need. We need a state that understands that agricultural policy is about security, food preparedness and the enormous ringing effects it has on jobs in the districts. We have a prime minister and a government that has distributed government posts – district ministers, digitisation ministers and many municipal ministers – but the results are missing. A stronger welfare state and proximity to welfare services are not provided with right-wing policies. Social-democratic policies are needed – an active state.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1961	If you're finally going to be the regular people's turn, you can't have the wallet or the location that controls their well-being. Then the local economy is crucial. Policy is to prioritise, and we've seen the right-wing government's priorities over eight years. They've spent several billion dollars cutting taxes, and they've cut most of them to those that have the most of them. Justice must be right – the local economy has also seen growth, but the growth of the economy has been lower than the growth of tasks. Everyone is entitled to good and fundamental well-being. The fact that there have been several older people who live longer should not mean that the quality of the supply they receive has to decline. But then the municipalities have to get the money they need to solve the problems they're going to have. As the Labour Party sees it, there is no doubt that the government's proposal for 2022 is too low, when the municipalities have large unsolved tasks within the central welfare area. So we want to strengthen the municipalities and multiply their revenues by 3 billion. in addition to the proposal of the Government. Early during the coronary apathy, the parties saw the value of standing together on some principles. In the process of managing the pandemic, we have seen more clearly the distance between the parties on key political issues, such as the financing of our well-being. It was said across the parties in 2021 that municipalities and counties should be compensated for the cumulative effects of tax losses, income losses and additional costs associated with the coronary eruption, and for the Workers' Party there is no doubt that municipalities and counties must be fully compensated. Then, economic space needs to be increased to meet demographic and economic challenges and climate and migration challenges. It's about justice. Those who have stood in the first line to handle the pandemic cannot feel that they are left with the bill. The pandemic is national, and the financing of the handling must also be a national responsibility. Each single municipality cannot be left with this itself. But it is also about ambition. Municipalities should not be just a level of government; they should be a welfare provider; they should be there when our young people need childcare or schooling. They'll be there when our parents need care. They should be there when people experience economic crises and need community support through social assistance. Here we separate layers with the right part. They have long wanted to open up to several private providers in local care, using a model from Sweden. However, there will be no more provision of private care. There will be no more money because there will be more private provision. Only several private care services will be provided. The Labour Party does not think that one should ban private care providers, but we are very clear that it is the public that must have the primary responsibility. If you don't know, we might run a lot of risk for quality. We're at risk of a little whole-hearted offer. We risk that money, rather than going to common welfare, goes more to the welfare of some and less to the well-being of others. It's this control, this quality and the whole-society supply that I'm concerned about can be weakened. In the last eight years, the money has had more than enough. They've got targeted tax cuts. They have gained political power by the fact that it is their interests that are most clearly represented by the government's policy. Now it must soon be common people's turn. Prioritizing the local welfare and ensuring economic muscles for our municipalities and our counties is one of several ways that the Labour Party will ensure that it can finally become common people's turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1980	The size then takes a break to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e1992	The size goes to voting and starts with the case no. 31-38 from Monday 14 June, Agenda No 100.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e2007	A total of 372 proposals have been put forward during the debate. Proposal No. 14 were drawn during the debate. The representative Arne Nävra has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e2016	We have a small problem here, and this concerns the procedure and the deadlines we have had for submitting explanations of vote. This is a comprehensive case with 200 loose proposals. If we want, as SV does, to take all the solutions seriously – among other things. In view of the fact that not all parties are represented in the Committee, and because we were in a debate between 8 and 9 hours throughout yesterday and did not have the opportunity to assess properly, democratically and with local representatives, among others. with us – we were unable to get a proper explanation of our vote until this morning. Then it was too late to get it into the President's explanation of vote. The same situation I have understood that the Progress Party is in. This means that there are two parties that have not been given an explanation of vote because they have taken this matter seriously and have gone into each case. That is why I now propose to the Stortinget and the President that voting be postponed until tomorrow in order to get this properly into the system, so that we are given a proper statement of what the parties mean – both in respect of democracy and for the smaller parties that are not represented in the transport committee. Of course, this applies to us, who have gone into this thoroughly and have not been notified. If it is voted down, as I hope it will not be, I would like to explain what proposals we may then support.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e2025	The President will recall that the presidency has dealt with both the agenda and the voting time and decided this. That is why the President's position is that this matter is being voted on today. Does anyone ask for the word? - Then it's Sverre Myrli first.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e2032	In three days I have been a member of this assembly for 20 years. I have been involved in the treatment of all six national transport plans that have existed. But the mood for games that are now taking place around proposals in NTP, who is promoting, and who supports the proposals in NTP, and now also the vote over NTP, I have never been on. Yesterday, the Labour Party reported in a very common way which proposals we support and which proposals we do not support. If there is any problem in this case, it is that there are 372 proposals in the hall – that is the problem. It's a democratic right, so the Storting can of course do that. But it destroys the complete national transport plan as a serious planning document. The fact that we are even going to have that game about voting is unheard of. Yesterday it was said that the NTP debate was a party. Yes, there is at least a party without any adults present. Now it's time for the adults to come back home, clean up, and we're going to end this game. I fully support – and recommend the Workers' Party's representatives to support – the presidency's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e2041	I just have to say I'm a little surprised by the previous speeches. I think this is important. It's actually about the ability to make clear what the different parties think and what proposals they want to support. I've been at Stortinget for 16 years. I have also not experienced that you will not be able to vote for the proposals you are in favour of. On the other hand, you are allowed to vote, but you are not allowed to vote for all the proposals you are in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e2046	To make it brief, I support the assessment of this by the representative of Myrlis. I think it's possible for parties to announce what they would have voted, and get it recorded in a good way in voting. In this respect, I can add a case myself, too, because there are many proposals relating to individual projects in this plan, for which most of us could certainly have been in favour, but within a sound financial framework cannot vote. It is a challenge for all of us who have to sit and vote against projects that we really are in favour of, but that we do not have the opportunity to do within the framework laid down. That's why I think we're not in any particular situation, some of us. In fact, we have to deal with this in a sensible way – even outwardly after the vote. So I would say, right here, that I see that there can probably be a majority for some proposals, which, for our part, too, seems to be a good thing to support. This applies, for example: proposal No 6, which goes on the east line and the east fold track. It is one thing that we have written a good deal about in comments and explained our position to. We could have supported it, but we follow the voting order as the presidency has stated.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e2055	I could probably say a lot about yesterday's debate and about who has written comments, and who is in favour of and against proposals, but that there should be an opportunity for people to go through this thoroughly and to support the proposals that we are in favour of, we believe, in the Central Party are right. So I recommend the people of the Central Party to support Arne Nävra's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e2060	Then it is that the president has not intended to add up to any voting on this. This is a decision taken by the President, based on the speeches held in the Chamber, but also on the decision taken in the Presidency – namely that the agenda and voting time are set. That is why this matter is going to take place today. Then the president will invite Arne Nävra and others who want to give an explanation of vote, to do so – in the same way that the place did in its speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e2068	I haven't been here in so many periods. I am not a tanned representative on the routines of the house, but I actually thought that the Storting could adopt something like that. But if that's how the population can't do it, I respect it. At least the usual routine is that this is under the President and the power of the presidency, I think we can say that. At least I will give an explanation of vote here. It is that SV votes for the following loose proposals – although for technical reasons we have to vote against all solutions, including those for which we are in favour. But we are in favour of the following solutions: 175-179, 181-183, 185-188, 190-195, 197-223, 225-251, 253-261, 263-273, 275, 276, 278, 279, 281-284, 288-292, 296-306, 309, 310, 312-314, 316, 317, 320-323, 325, 326, 328-331, 334-339, 341, 344-348, 350-353, 355 and 372. And the referee corps will be listed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e2075	In that case, the Progress Party will support the following proposals in a subsidiary way: proposals Nos. 5-7, proposal No. 13 and proposal No. 17. In addition, we support the proposals No. 190, 210, 213, 248, 278, 279, 281-300, 302, 304-310, 335, 338 and 372.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e2080	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 315, 319, 324, 333, 338, 342 and 343, from Red. Proposal No. 315 sounds: «The government is asking the government to re-prioritize the funds from Rv. Hunndalen - Mjøsbrua till Rv. 4 LunnerGjelderåsen.’ Proposal No. 319 sounds: ‘The Government requests the closure of all OPS projects as soon as practicable and legally possible.’; Proposal No. 324 sounds: ‘The government asks the E18 to leave the Kristiansand Centre.’ Proposal No. 333 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to prioritise funds in the state budget for 2022 in order to ensure full state funding of the urban railway in Bergen to Åsane without tolls.’ Proposal No. 338 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority planning of the E134 winter open.’ Proposal No. 342 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the design of the Fossil Diagonal.’ Proposal No. 343 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an environmental ceiling above the E6 at Manglerud and Furuset.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e2128	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 316, 317, 321–323, 325–332, 334–337, 339–341 and 344–353, from Red. Proposal No. 316 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to draw up, together with the county councils, a comprehensive and binding plan to reduce the maintenance run on county roads, which also means increased funding from the state.’ Proposal No. 317 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in drawing up, together with the counties, a comprehensive and binding plan for the tailoring of all high and medium-speed highways and highways, which also means increasing the funding of the State.’ Proposal No. 321 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the Government to require Avinor to replace its four per cent annual increase in air traffic with an annual reduction target of four per cent.’ Proposal No. 322 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to secure sufficient funds in the State budget for 2022 so that the planning of interconnection of Vestfoldbanen and Sørlandsbanen continues in view of the start of construction in the first part of the planning period.’ Proposal No. 323 sounds: ‘The government asks the plans for the new four-field E18 between Grimstad and Arendal to be more dimensional and to use the existing trajectory.’ Proposal No. 325 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for further planning of the four-field motorway on the route E18 Dørdal-Tvedestrand, and is asking instead for the road to be projected along the existing 2+1 road with middle parts and 90 km/h.’ Proposal No. 326 sounds: ‘The government requests the project of the route E18 Lwigal–Ålgård as 2+1 road with middle parts, mainly along the existing track.’ Proposal No. 327 sounds: ‘The government requests priority tunnel under Fevikmarka instead of the Frivolddalene on E18 through Grimstad.’ Proposal No. 328 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to give priority to double tracks Nærbø-Egersund’. Proposal No. 329 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to secure funds in the State budget for 2022 for an independent assessment of the North-Jären urban railway between Stavanger, Ullandhaug and Sola.’ Proposal No. 330 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to stop further expanding the E39 Rogfast.’ Proposal No. 331 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to stop further expansion of E39 Stord–Os [[CHUCKLES]] Proposal No. 332 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to give priority to funds in state budgets for 2022 to extend the Voseban in parallel with the E16.’ Proposal No. 334 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to clarify that they do not plan bridges over Sognefjorden or Nordfjorden.’ Proposal No. 335 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to stop planning the project E39 Ålesund-Molde [[Mutter axis]] Proposal No. 336 sounds: ‘The Government asks the government to give priority to Raumaban race protection.’ Proposal No. 337 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a new E6 to be scaled down between Trondheim and Værnes so that it is built around a 90 km/h road.’ Proposal No. 339 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to conduct an investigation of the lynching of Haukeli.’ Proposal No. 340 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to expand the Ringerix Railway without E16.’ Proposal No. 341 sounds: ‘The government asks for priority to be given to upgrading and strengthening the capacity of Kongsvingerban during the planning period’.» Proposal No. 344 sounds: ‘The government requests priority to upgrade the Alnabru terminal. This must be done in a manner not at the expense of urban development in Hovinby.’» Proposal No. 345 sounds: ‘The government is asked in its negotiations on the Oslo urban growth agreement to take the initiative in further planning of a path solution for Lower Romerike, starting from the extension of the T-Bahn to the Ellingsrudåsen to Lørenskog. The objective shall be a start-up appropriation for the first part of the planning period.’;» Proposal No. 346 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to stop the planning of the E6 Oslo East.’ Proposal No. 347 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to stop further development of the E18 West Corridor.’ Proposal No. 348 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop further planning of a third runway on the Gardermoen’.» Proposal No. 349 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to refuse the reopening of Rygge Airport.’ Proposal No. 350 sounds: «The government asks the government to stop further expansion of Rv. 25 between the Hamar and the Ransom.’» Proposal No. 351 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to give priority to double tracks at Ofotbanen.’ Proposal No. 352 sounds: ‘The government asks the rail network in East Finland’. Proposal No. 353 sounds: ‘The government asks for an investigation of E6 on Sennaland with a view to the less frequent closure in winter.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e2297	There is a vote on proposal No. 318, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that the transition to zero-emission ferries and high-speed craft be fully financed by the State and set aside funds from 2022.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e2314	There is a vote on proposal No. 320, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all road, rail and other infrastructure development, including those built by the State Road Administration, the New Vejer and the Bane Nord, is preceded by Norwegian wage and working conditions and without social dumping.’ The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e2331	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 173, 174, 180, 183–185, 196, 218, 222, 230-233, 244 and 265, of the Greens. Proposal No. 173 sounds: «Report. St. 20 National Transport Plan 2022-2033 is returned to the government. [[2020-2021]] The size calls on the government in 2022 to present a revised national transport plan based on four overall leadership where climate and nature objectives and the protection of food soils become binding on all transport planning: – NTP shall ensure that the transport sector contributes at least its proportional share to a national emission path that reduces Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions by 80 pst. relative to 1990 levels by 2030 and 95 pst. by 2035. – NTP shall ensure that all transport projects become natural neutral by compensating for any action which cannot be avoided to build roads, railways and the like by restoring or restoring nature elsewhere. – NTP shall prioritise time and economical development of walking and cycling routes, public transport, migration to zero-emission road, rail, coastal and air traffic traffic, maintenance and road safety, rather than the development of new roads and aerodromes. – NTP shall plan and facilitate efficiency gains and lower investment needs in infrastructure following the phase-in of new technologies.’;» Proposal No. 174 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a total framework of SEK 1158 billion for national transport plans 2022-2033 with the following main economic priorities in order to ensure a green transport plan for sustainable mobility which prioritises public transport, corridors, bicycles and micro-mobility rather than increased motor traffic: (a) reallocation of the framework within the transport uses: Highways: -192.2 billion Subsidy route: +11 billion Urban areas: +40.8 billion Railway applications: +173.9 billion Coastal management +8.1 billion Airports: -1.7 billion Cross-transport initiatives: +0.2 billion Other financing [[(Tolls):]] (b) Reduce the national road framework by 192,2 billion, broken down as follows: Operation, maintenance and renewal of highways: +1.4 billion for enhanced maintenance and renewal Investments by the State Road Administration: -119.3 billion and redistribution from large road investments to road safety, collective, pedestrian and bicycle measures, climate and nature measures New Roads AS: -69.4 billion, including laying down New Roads AS, stopping the development of new motorways and transferring the remaining portfolio to the State Road Service. $8 billion is transferred to the State Road Service with the portfolio National Road Grants: -4,9 billion including the removal of subsidies for reduced rates and the increase of subsidies for national road hauliers (c) Increase the framework for county roads by 11 billion, broken down as follows: Special bet within the framework grant: +9 billion earmarked walking and cycling routes and race protection Grants to county roads: +2 billion earmarked maintenance and road safety measures (d) Increase the framework to urban areas by 40,8 billion, broken down as follows: Specific grants for large collective projects: +14,6 billion Subsidies to urban areas [[(urban growth agreements of major cities):]] Subsidy scheme for urban climate and environmental development and good accessibility [[(medium-sized cities):]] Create a new grant for urban environment packages: +4,8 billion Other new grants: +1 billion, of which 0.5 billion for national electricity bicycle subsidies and 0.5 billion for collective actions in Oslo e) Increase the rail framework by 173.9 billion, broken down as follows: [[Call 2 and Hovinbyen]] Railway sector management +0.75 billion Purchase of passenger transport services by train: +2 billion Operation, maintenance and renewal of the network: +8 billion Investments in the rail network: +161.9 billion (f) Increase the coastal management framework by 8.1 billion, broken down as follows: Operation, maintenance and major equipment acquisitions: +6 billion Water measures: -2.5 billion Subsidy schemes for maritime transport: +4.6 billion g) Reduce airport framework by 1.65 billion, broken down as follows: Halt Mo airport plans in Rana and transfer of Bodø airport: -4.7 billion Create new aviation electrification grant: +3 billion h) Increase the framework for cross-transport activities by 0.2 billion, earmarked for research and development of smart and sustainable transport technologies. i) Reduce revenue from other funding by 62 billion as a result of stopping and scaling down the planning and construction of new major road projects.» [[Tolls]] Suggestion 180 reads: ‘The government is asking the government to stop the further development and planning of new motorways and other major road projects that undermine the zero growth target and the collective, bicycle and gangway investment. The following projects under Statens vägvesen and New Wegener are scrapped or scaled down: – E18 Lysaker – Ramstadsletta: the State terminates the contracts and the project is scrapped. Collective, bicycle and walk-through bets – E39 Rogfast: Ferry-free E39 cranes – bet on zero-emission ferries instead – Rv 555 Sotra connection: New bridge must be built, otherwise scaled down to a project that does not increase traffic capacity but increases safety and accessibility for collective, bicycle and gangways – E39 Wages and salaries – Health: Scaled down to a project that does not increase traffic capacity but increases safety and accessibility for collectives, bicycles and gangways – E39 Wages and salaries – Health: the State withdraws from contracts and the project is scrapped – Rv 22 Crossing Glomma: Scaled down to a project that does not increase traffic capacity but increases safety and accessibility for collectives, bicycles and gangways – E18 Retvet-Vinterbro: the project is scrapped – Rv 19 Moss: The project is scaled down and directed towards ferry traffic – E39 Ålgård-Hove: the project is being scrapped – E134 Dagslett – E18: Scaled down to a project that does not increase traffic capacity but increases safety and accessibility for collective, bicycle and gangways – E18/E39 Gartnerløkka – Kolsdalen: Scaled down to a project that does not increase traffic capacity but increases safety and accessibility for collective, bicycle and gangways. – E134 Oslofjord link, construction step 2: New tunnel for increased road safety is fully financed by tolls – E39 Ådland – Svegatjørn Ferry-free E39 is scrapped – bet on zero-emission ferries instead [[(Hearfast):]] – E39 Ålesund–Molde: Ferry-free E39 cranes – bet on zero-emission ferries instead – Rv 36 Skjelsvik – Skyggestein: Scaled down to a project that does not increase traffic capacity but increases safety and accessibility for collective, bicycle and gangways. – E134 Saggrenda-Elgsjö: the project will be scrapped – E16 High-cast-Honey-foss Motorway cranes [[(part of FRE16):]] – E16 Arna–Stanghelle: the partial section of the Arna–Trengereid motorway is scraped, while the rest of the rasp road section towards Stanghelle is constructed as planned – E6 Megården – Mørsvikbotn The project is being scrapped, focusing on the construction of Nord-Norway [[(E6 Sørfold):]] – E10/Rv. 85 Tjeldsund-Gullesfjordbotn-Langvas Bay E10 The project is being scrapped and put in place to improve road safety, upgrading county roads and construction of the North Norwegian Railway. [[(Hålogaland road):]] – E6 Åsen – Steinkjer: the project is being scrapped – Rv 25 Hamar-Løten: The project is scrapped – Rv 4 Hunndalen – Mjøsbrua: the project is being scrapped – E16 High-cast – Scaret: the project is scraped – E39 Kristiansand–Sandnes: the project is scrapped – E18 Langangen–Ruchtvedt: State withdraws from contracts and the project is scrapped – E18 Tvedestrand-Bamble: the project is scrapped – E18 Arendal-Grimstad: the project is being scrapped – E6 Molv–Øyer: the project is scrapped – E6 Øyer-Otta: the project is scrapped – E16 Kongsvinger-E6: the project is scrapped – E6 Ulsberg-Vindåsliene: the State withdraws from the contracts and the project is scrapped – E6 Corporalsbrua – Golden: the project is scrapped – E6 Gyllan–Kål: the project is scrapped – E6 Ranheim–Vörnes: the State withdraws from the contracts and the project is scrapped. The bet is turned towards a new double track on the Trondheim – Stjørdal railway – E6 Whitehammar-Åsen: the State withdraws from the contracts and the project is scrapped’ Proposal No. 183 sounds: «The government is asking the government to phase out the sale of new fossil passenger cars and motorcycles by 2023, new fossil vans by 2025 and half of new fossil trucks by 2027.» Proposal No. 184 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to raise the average toll share in new road projects under the State Road Administration and New Roads AS to 50 pst.’ Proposal No. 185 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and come back to Stortinget with a proposal for toll collection along highways that go in full or in part parallel to the railways between the major cities of South Norway and Sweden. Tolls shall be earmarked for railway investment in the transport corridors concerned in order to strengthen the railway financing base and competitiveness against road.» Proposal No. 196 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to stop the plans for the Ringeriksbanen and E16 through the valuable nature and cultural landscape of Ringerikes and Hole municipalities and to start planning and expanding the new route for the Ringeriksbanen via Nittedal as soon as possible. New Ringeriksbahn must be seen in the context of an upgrade of the Gjøvikbahn, contributing to increased capacity for goods on the track and caring for valuable natural and cultural areas.» Proposal No. 218 sounds: ‘The government is asking that subsidies for reduced tolls and better collective provision in the four major urban areas as a whole be strengthened and that the requirement for reduced tolls be removed.’ Proposal No. 222 sounds: ‘The government is asking that the national transport plan assume that car traffic in and around the larger cities should be reduced by at least 20 pst by 2025 and a third by 2030.’ Proposal No. 230 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to develop a national bicycle strategy during 2022 for the large-scale development of continuous cycling infrastructure in all parts of the country with a view to doubling the share of bicycles by 2025.’ Proposal No. 231 sounds like: ‘The government asks the government to set up a state grant to municipalities and county councils which establish lending schemes for electric bicycles and grants grants to individuals and businesses for the purchase of electric bicycles and bicycles.’ Proposal No. 232 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a national grant for enterprises that organise work with bicycle parking, wardrobes and showers.’ Proposal No. 233 sounds: ‘The government requests the double grant for urban growth agreements and grants to smaller urban areas and earmarks about half of the increase in bicycle measures’.» Proposal No. 244 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assign the power to establish and determine the size of zero-emission zones to the municipalities, regardless of whether the roads are municipal, county or state. The zones shall be established in close dialogue with business and residents, as well as the State Road Administration and County Municipalities in cases where State and County Road Networks are affected.» Proposal No. 265 sounds: ‘The government is asked to liquidate the subsidy for reduced tolls outside the cities’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e2658	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 175-179, 181, 182, 186–195, 197-203, 205-207, 209-217, 219-221, 223-229, 234-243, 245–250, 252-257, 260–264 and 266-277, of the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 175 sounds: «The government is asked to make the climate a fundamental premise on the priorities of the national transport plan and on the implementation of projects. The socio-economic analyses of NTP 2022-2033 must at least base the 2030 target on 2000 SEK per tonne of CO 2.’» Proposal No. 176 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to revise its national transport plan with a premise to base it on technologies that reduce transport needs and land use, thereby reducing the need for investment in resource-intensive infrastructure, inter alia by: – prioritisation of the development of new transport technologies enabling better, cheaper and less space-consuming collective solutions within and outside cities, – ensure that Norway is in the forefront of implementing new technologies that improve transport efficiency and reduce natural and greenhouse gas losses, such as new tunnel drilling technologies, maglev trains, hyperloops, etc. – assess new, cutting-edge technologies in new transport projects – targeted traffic planning, research and technology development towards increased electrification, sharing solutions, micromobility, interaction and autonomy’» Proposal No. 177 sounds like: ‘The government is asked to provide in 2022 an analysis of how new transport technologies, including self-driving cars and car sharing services, can change transport needs over the years to come, including the assessment of: – reduced need for investment in new capacity-enhancing roads, bridges and tunnels – the possibilities for significantly increased road safety, – less traffic in cities and agglomerations and the need for changes in the collective offer – greater freedom of movement for people with poor access to cars or public transport – better use of the cars and maximum sharing of cars, rather than private ownership of the cars – a dramatic decrease in the number of cars, so that we can free up areas that are currently connected to parking, in centre cores, around shopping centres, in residential areas etc.” Proposal No. 178 sounds: ‘The government is actively asking the government to make use of public procurement as a driver of sustainable transport technology, inter alia by: – require a zero-emission vehicle in all public contracts and tenders, – include autonomous vehicles as part of the collective service where this could lead to more environmentally friendly and efficient transport and a total reduction in the number of vehicles on the roads, – quiet climate requirements for materials and require the use of ‘green asphalt’ in public tenders, – require emission-free vessels in all bids for ferry and fast boat operations, and establish a raw compensation scheme for the counties preceding: – require emission-free air transport on the short-haul network in North Norway and the West, aiming at the rapid electrification of all routes, – require pick-up-meg-buses with emission-free transport to meet passengers’ real door-to-door transport needs in a timely manner, and to sew together optimal driving routes continuously’» Proposal No. 179 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to ensure the freedom of movement and health of children and young people from driving. The Government is asked to come back with national targets to improve children and the freedom of movement of young people and to propose a package of measures to this end, including, inter alia, road safety measures along school roads, multi-way and cycle routes, car-free streets, squares and play areas, better and cheaper collective provision for all children and young people and measures to reduce traffic and air pollution in cities and agglomerations.» Proposal No. 181 sounds: ‘The government is asking to return to Stortinget with a climate budget showing direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions resulting from land seizures, installation phase, material use, changed transport volume, distance, speed and means of transport as well as operational and maintenance for all expansion projects proposed in NTP, and adopted but not completed projects, at the latest at the time of submission of the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 182 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting with a land register for natural areas and arable land showing land seizures for all expansion projects proposed in the NTP, and adopted but not completed projects, at the latest at the time of submission of the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 186 sounds: ‘The government is asked to initiate cooperation between the Swedish and Danish authorities on a common Nordic railway plan to strengthen the cross-border train offer, to transfer more passenger and freight traffic from road and air to rail and to develop a network of high-speed rail between the Nordic major cities and the continent.’ Proposal No. 187 sounds: ‘The government is asking for InterCity development to be linked to a major railway investment between major cities with the aim of reducing travel time by at least one and a half hours on the Oslo-Bergen/Trondheim/Stavanger routes during the NTP period.’ Proposal No. 188 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to new double tracks on the Eastfold Railway between Haug and Seut in the first six-year period by NTP, and for further development between Fredrikstad and Halden to be planned in the context of a new high-speed rail between Oslo and Gothenburg. Including the location of stations, the choice of tracks and the connection between new and existing tracks.’» Proposal No. 189 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that BaneNor, in cooperation with the municipalities concerned, provides and carries out impact assessments of more solutions for train parking in Ski and new eastern line clearances that take greater account of food soil, nature, outdoor interests, cultural memories and cultural landscapes than existing plan options. In addition, the investigation has to consider how the project can include a possible station for new high-speed trains against Sweden.’ Proposal No. 190 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to planning and starting the construction of a new railway tunnel during Oslo in the coming NTP period.’ Proposal No. 191 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the Swedish authorities, is asking the government to plan and ensure the rapid start of construction of new high-speed railways Oslo-Gouteborg and Oslo-Stockholm.’ Proposal No. 192 reads: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of continuous double tracks on the Westfold line between Drammen and Grenland, including the Drammen-Gulskogen station, with the aim of completing the next NTP period.’ Proposal No. 193 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority planning and development of the Border Railway in order to connect the Sørlandsbanen and Vestfoldbanen, with the aim of completing the next NTP period.’ Proposal No. 194 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the planning and development of double tracks on the Jærbanen between Sandnes and Nærbø, and further planning against Egersund, with the aim of completing Sandnes-Nærbø in the coming NTP period.’ Proposal No. 195 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the planning and development of a new railway tunnel on the Sørlandsbanen beyond the rascal Drangsdalen in the first half of the NTP period.’ Proposal No. 197 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to extend the new Arna–Stanghelle railway by 2024 at the latest and to ensure funds for the planning and continuous development of the railway further from Stanghelle to Voss, with the aim of completing the next NTP period.’ [[K5 project]] Proposal No. 198 sounds like: ‘The government is asking for new double-tracks for Hamar and two-hour measures for Lillehammer, and for the development to be planned in the context of measures of at least one hour reduced travel time between Lillehammer and Trondheim.’ Proposal No. 199 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to new double tracks between Trondheim and Stjørdal with objectives of completion for the coming NTP period.’ Proposal No. 200 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to planning and starting the construction of the North Norway Railway in the coming NTP period and for strict requirements to be met to ensure Sami culture, clean-up, climate and nature in the choice of line and construction methods.’ Proposal No. 201 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for safe means of electrification of the Nordlandsban in the first half of the NTP period and to ensure that the measure is seen in the context of electrification, planning and expansion of the Tronderbanen, Meråkerbanen and Nord-Norway.’ Proposal No. 202 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure emission-free operation on the Rørosbanen and Solørbanen in the first half of the NTP period and to ensure that the measure is seen in conjunction with the Dovre Railway with a view to increasing the transport of goods from road to rail between the East and Trøndelag.’ Proposal No. 203 sounds: ‘The size requests the government to ensure emission-free operation on all non-electricated routes by 2030’.» Proposal No. 205 sounds: ‘The government is asking for direct and corresponding day and night departures between Norway and the Nordic countries and beyond to the continent.’ Proposal No. 206 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the purchase of long-distance train equipment for several day and night departures to the Nordic countries and the continent and adapted to European railway infrastructure.’ Proposal No. 207 sounds: ‘The government asks the Fly train to be integrated into the regular service in the Oslo area, in order to increase capacity and reduce rush time.’ Proposal No. 209 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to launch an investigation into the Ice Sea Railway between Finland and the Tromsø Region.’ Proposal No. 210 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide sufficient appropriations for the maintenance and renewal of the railway to reduce the maintenance run already in the first half of the NTP period.’ Proposal No. 211 sounds: ‘The Government requests good mobile and network coverage along all routes during the first half of the NTP period.’ Proposal No. 212 sounds: ‘The government is asking for greater investment in railway power packages and freight measures to increase track and terminal capacity, more efficient freight transport and better conditions for freight forwarders.’ Proposal No. 213 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the actions of the Freight Package Inland, new terminal structure in Trondheim and Oslo, capacity expansion at the Alnabru terminal and capacity-enhancing measures at Ofotbanen, including assessing the need for double-tracking.’ Proposal No. 214 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the Swedish authorities, is asking the government to establish a separate impact package for goods on the road between Oslo and Gothenburg with a view to significantly reducing heavy goods transport on the main roads between Norway and Sweden.’ Proposal No. 215 sounds: ‘The Government requests the double of the grant to urban growth agreements and the grant to smaller urban areas and extends the grant to the Moss region and cities of the Mjøs region.’;» Proposal No. 216 sounds: ‘The government asks to include new Majorstua station in the scheme of special grants for large collective projects and with it ensuring a State share at least at the level of other large collective projects.’ Proposal No. 217 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to contribute State sub-financing to new signalling and securing facilities for the Oslo and Viken T-Bahn.’ Proposal No. 219 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to secure state sub-financing for the planning and start of new cross-linking in Groruddalen and to extend the T-track to Lørenskog for the coming NTP period.’ Proposal No. 220 sounds: «The government is asking the government to contribute State part-financing to large collective projects in Hovinbyen and along Ring 2 in Oslo.» Proposal No. 221 sounds like: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend the State sub-financing of the Urban Railway to the Filling Valley in order to complete the extension from the Oasen to the Spelhaugen.’ Proposal No. 223 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a premium for municipalities and regions that reduce car traffic by increased means of operation and investment for public transport.’ Proposal No. 224 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make proposals in the State budget for 2022 to complete a price cut on all public transport, except aircraft and taxis, with a minimum of 20 per cent throughout the country.’ Proposal No. 225 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to extend the limit of a children’s ticket to public transport from 16 to 18 years of age and to introduce free public transport for children under 6 years of age.’ Proposal No. 226 reads: ‘The government is asked to introduce requirements to implement annual digital children’s talk in all schools and other measures to systematically improve the school path of children.’ Proposal No. 227 sounds: ‘The government is asking for clear environmental requirements for cities through urban growth agreements and at the same time providing local politicians with better opportunities to put in place local schemes and restrictions on car traffic.’ Proposal No. 228 sounds like: ‘The government asks the government to set up environmentally friendly urban transport packages in rural municipalities.’ Proposal No. 229 reads: ‘The government is asked to set up a grant scheme for setting up non-emissionable urban boats and urban and urban city and agglomerations. The grant is targeted at municipalities and county councils that will test new technologies, explore 'blue public transport' and establish the necessary infrastructure to start up new routes.’ Proposal No. 234 sounds like: ‘The Government is asking the Government to give priority to increasing the development of new routes along the national and county roads.’ Proposal No. 235 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of national bicycle routes in order to lift Norway as a bicycle destination and to ensure better and safer provision for bicycle tourism.’ Proposal No. 236 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased investment in safe, high-speed bicycle expressways into and through the big cities.’ Proposal No. 237 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a reward scheme through the urban growth agreements for municipalities and counties building safe routes and bicycles.’ Proposal No. 238 sounds like: ‘The government asks the government to improve the quality of cycling training in school by making available the skills of volunteering, to protect the free principle of cycling training and to assess an hourly requirement for cycling training in the physical training profession.’ Proposal No. 239 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a bicycle hotel at all major railway stations and collective connecting points.’ Proposal No. 240 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a double bet through Barna’s transport plan for several heart zones and road safety measures along school roads and kindergartens.’ Proposal No. 241 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make proposals to give all children legal rights to clean air, in line with the right to clean water. Also requested by the Government to lower the limit values for NOx and particulate matter in the pollution regulation from today's level, based on the health-based recommendations of the Institute for Public Health and the World Health Organisation [[WHO]] – the annual limit value for PM10 is reduced to 20 μg/m 3. – the annual limit value for PM2,5 is reduced to 8 μg/m 3. – the annual limit value for NOx is reduced to 30 μg/m 3.» Proposal No. 242 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to a national plan with stronger instruments against particulate matter and for better harmonisation between national environmental objectives and legal frameworks, in order to ensure that the national PM10 particulate matter target is not exceeded in the coming years.’ Proposal No. 243 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to propose that municipalities be authorised by the Road Traffic Act to allow municipalities to set their own heavy-duty tyres.’ Proposal No. 245 sounds: «The government is asking for priority to be given to the planning and conversion of state-owned motorways in cities to human-friendly urban streets which prioritise good and safe housing, walking, cycling, public transport and green infrastructure. Priority shall be given to motorways in viable urban areas with high noise load and air pollution.» Proposal No. 246 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to scrap the plans for the Free E39 and to prioritise safer roads and emission-free frequent ferries.’ Proposal No. 247 sounds: ‘The government asks for priority to be given to targeted road safety measures, increased maintenance, renewal, race and tailoring of existing national and county roads, rather than building new motorways.’ Proposal No. 248 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to strengthen efforts for the renewal of bridges, tunnels, ground and other measures to increase road safety and to reduce the maintenance run on the national road network and to give priority to this in the first half of the NTP period.’ Proposal No. 249 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a sharp increase in the grant to the county roads, earmarked for several routes, race and tailoring, renewal, maintenance and road safety.’ Proposal No. 250 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to revise current road standards and traffic rules in order to prioritize corridors, bicycles, public transport and safe micro-mobility.’ Proposal No. 252 sounds: ‘The Government immediately requests the cessation of all plans and constructions of four-field motorways around the major cities, including the E18 west corridor, the E6 Oslo east, the E39 in against Stavanger and Sandnes, the E39 Stord–Os, the E18 in Agder, the E6 in Trøndelag and the E16 in the Viking.’ Proposal No. 253 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to step up efforts to reduce noise and pollution along the national roads, with better protection, use of noise-absorbing substrates, lower speeds, etc.’.» Proposal No. 254 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all construction projects become fossil-free by 2025 and emission-free by 2030.’ Proposal No. 255 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a reduction in the spread of microplastics from car decks in the seas and on land, inter alia, by reducing the use of cars and heavy goods vehicles on the roads, by more water treatment from the roads and by developing new environmentally friendly alternatives with degradable tyres.’ Proposal No. 256 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a national electric transport plan identifying the infrastructure that needs to be put in place for a faster transition to emission-free maritime and land transport for passenger cars and commercial transport, and identifying the need for new infrastructure, gaps in the charging network and areas where today’s charging stations need to have increased power and more charging points. [[NeTP]] NeTP needs to be developed across transport and energy authorities, so that electrification of vehicles looks up to the capacity and needs of the mains.’» Proposal No. 257 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a coherent network of filling stations for the transport of nutrients along the main road network with high-speed chargers, hydrogen and biogas, for example along E6 and E10 from north to south, and E39/E18 along the coast of the West via the Southland to Oslo.’ Proposal No. 260 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a change in the law on tariffs in the network so that it becomes commercially viable to offer high-speed charging throughout the country.’ Proposal No. 261 sounds: ‘The government is asking for repair and reuse to be paid by changing the legislation to make it safer and easier to replace parts and batteries in electric cars.’ Proposal No. 262 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop the introduction of modular road trains on Norwegian roads.’ Proposal No. 263 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a bus package for the districts for the creation of new express bus routes and the increased provision of existing routes, discount schemes for children, students and the elderly, and the establishment of tailor-made collective solutions for the countryside.’ Proposal No. 264 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative, develop and stimulate schemes of pick-up, meg-buses with emission-free transport in order to meet real door-to-door transport needs in a timely manner and continuously sew together optimal driving routes. The offer shall be aimed in particular at transporting to and from leisure activities for children and young people.’;» Proposal No. 266 reads: ‘The government is asking for priority to re-establish the maintenance run associated with, inter alia, navigation infrastructure on which maritime freight depends’.» Proposal No. 267 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to strengthen the work of the Swedish Coastal Agency on maritime safety, acute pollution and marine pollution, including plastic pollution and microplastic emissions.’ Proposal No. 268 sounds: ‘The Government requests the cessation of water measures justified on the grounds of the cruise industry, including the fairway project in Stavanger.’ Proposal No. 269 sounds: ‘In 2022, the government is asked to provide a full review of the water measures in the national transport plan with a view to identifying potential conflicts between natural diversity, the aquatic environment and development measures. Furthermore, consideration of marine ecosystems and the aquatic environment is leading the future development of ports and waters.’» Proposal No. 270 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a plan for strengthening the maritime route as a transport year, including measures to establish more coastal transport routes and increase the share of goods by sea over road.’ Proposal No. 271 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to strengthen the subsidy scheme for the transfer of goods from road to sea.’ Proposal No. 272 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for speedier roll-out of shore, charging and hydrogen stations from renewable energy to shipping, including facilitating release-free fishing fleets and electrification of recreational boats.’ Proposal No. 273 sounds: ‘The government is asking for ports to be better equipped to deploy new technologies, including autonomous ships, in order to increase competitiveness against road transport, including strengthening the subsidy scheme for efficient and environmentally friendly ports.’ Proposal No. 274 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make the following changes in the planning of Norwegian aviation: – include Avinor’s total activities, including all capacity changes, expansions, etc. at all major airports handling the national transport plan; – ensure that the commercial profits from Avinor’s activities are transferred to the State budget and reported within the framework of transport priorities provided by the National Transport Plan, – stop any plans and expansions that increase aviation capacity, including new Mo i Rana airport, – stop Avinor’s ongoing tendering procedure for a new tax-free contract for the period 2023-2027 and terminate the tax-free regime’;» Proposal No. 275 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for an electric fly bet with the aim of making Norway the world leader in green aviation innovation. The bet should be added to North Norway and include the establishment of power aircraft service centres, charging infrastructure, the further development of the training offer for electric aircraft pilots and technicians at north-norwegian educational institutions, incentive schemes, and the purchase and testing of electric aircraft on the short-haul network in North Norway and the West.’ Proposal No. 276 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to enter into dialogue as soon as possible with the Municipality of Oslo on the conversion and downgrading of Rv 4 The Trondheim Road between Sinsen and Grorud with the aim of ensuring good collective solutions and reducing noise and pollution of the living environment along the road.’ Proposal No. 277 sounds: ‘The government is asking that further planning and development of the E10 Nappstraumen-Fiskebøl be based as far as possible on upgrading and road safety of existing roads and that consideration of arable land and natural and cultural values be taken into account for the choice of solutions.’; Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e3198	There is a vote on proposal No. 259, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a total of 10000 high-speed and high-speed chargers along the national and county roads by 2025.’ The Central Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e3215	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 251 and 258, by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. Proposal No. 251 sounds: ‘The government is asking for clearer coordination responsibilities of the State and the county councils in order to ensure faster and more cost-effective deployment of charging infrastructure and electronic communications in connection with upgrading, planning and development of road and rail.’ Proposal No. 258 sounds: ‘The Government requests the extension of the load at rest places to ferries, bus terminals, train stations and other important road-side traffic nodal points that can act as energy hubs for trucks, buses, ferries, trains and electric cars. Furthermore, the country, in cooperation with the transport industry, plays an active role in establishing the necessary infrastructure for zero-emission commercial transport as soon as possible.’» The Labour Party and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e3239	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 204 and 208, by the Greens. Proposal No. 204 sounds: ‘The government is asking for easy access to route information on foreign train connections and the possibility to purchase cross-border train tickets in the Nordic region and the continent, for example by extending the national travel planner to Entur AS.’ Proposal No. 208 sounds: ‘The government is asked to reverse the fragmentation of planning, construction, material and maintenance of Norwegian rail, and to evaluate the competitive outsourcing of train operations, and to consider reversing them as the contracts are concluded with the aim of bringing the train offer together in one State company.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e3263	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 148 and 155, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 148 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate whether the State should cover a greater proportion of its expenditure through loans in Norwegian krona and to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner. The investigation shall include assessments of financial stability, monetary policy action rooms, impact on the exchange rate and the purpose for which it may be appropriate to cover in this way, in addition to those currently in force.’;» Proposal No. 155 sounds: ‘The Government of the State budget for 2022 is asked to propose a start-up grant for financing the dredging project at Borg Hafen in view of the implementation of the project after a cost calculation of 725 million. in the course of three annual budgets.’;» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e3288	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 126 and 144 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 126 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to investigate, with a view to introducing, prohibiting the sale and import of fossil cars after 2025.’ Proposal No. 144 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to reduce the overall speed limit in cities from 50 km/h to 30 km/h and to 20 km/h around schools and kindergartens.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e3312	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 122–124, 127, 129-143, 145-147, 149–154, 156–167, 169, 170, 172, 312, 312 and 313, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 122 sounds: ‘The size requires the government to incorporate in all relevant contexts a target of at least reaching the EU average for the share of train transport compared to road transport during the planning period.’ Proposal No. 123 sounds: ‘The government asks to change the road construction leadership so that no 110 km/h of four-field motorways are built on routes with an average of less than 15 000 ÅDT, but rather choose solutions with two- and three-field roads with a centre and speed limit of 90 km/h on the most traffic routes below 15 000 ÅDT.’ Proposal No. 124 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting with full climate and land budgets for all expansion projects proposed in the NTP, as well as adopted but not completed projects, at the time of submission of the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 127 sounds like: ‘The government is asked to establish a national binding rule for an electric car to receive 100 pst. environmental discount until they reach 25 pst. of the goods car passages of the toll project in question.’» Proposal No. 129 reads: ‘The government is asking for the implementation of several pilot projects with area-neutral transport development, where the builder is required to seize new natural areas as much as possible, and to restore similar natural areas, in the areas where new nature is seized.’ Proposal No. 130 sounds: «The government is asked to make sure that all future developments in transport with a significant impact on nature are required to restore more natural areas than the valuable nature that is lost in the neighbourhoods of expansion.» Proposal No. 131 reads: ‘The government asks the size to add up to 80 pst. State financing of large collective projects in new negotiations and renegotiations on urban growth agreements/environment packages in major cities.’.» Proposal No. 132 sounds: ‘The government is asking for negotiations on ‘small-town packages’ on urban environment/urban growth agreements, but down to smaller cities, and letting Egersund become a pilot for this.’ Proposal No. 133 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a plan for measures to reduce noise and air pollution from traffic related to the Alnabru terminal and to ensure that the government returns to the Stortinge appropriately.’ Proposal No. 134 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a national rail freight plan presented together with the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 135 sounds: ‘The government is requesting as soon as possible, and since before the submission of the State budget for 2022, the adjustment compensation scheme will be extended due to: trackworks. This system should be assessed as a permanent scheme and should apply to both planned and unplanned settings.» Proposal No. 136 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a charge on the carriage of goods by road over long distances, where there is a railway in the same corridor. The investigation shall assess the mechanisms and spaces of action within the EEA Agreement for this purpose, as well as the routes to which this scheme may be appropriate.’;» Proposal No. 137 sounds like: ‘The Government is asking the Government to work to extend the Emission Control Areas zone to the north of the 62nd parallel.’ [[ECA]] Proposal No. 138 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to investigate and introduce measures to reduce cruise traffic emissions in Norway by 65 pst.’ Proposal No. 139 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to conduct a new, thorough investigation into changing travel habits in general and by aircraft in particular, after the pandemic and to return to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner. The investigation shall point to the transport policy implications and recommended measures resulting from identified changes.’;» Proposal No. 140 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to halt capacity-enhancing developments at the established largest airports in Norway and to turn the investments against the preparation of zero-emission technologies.’ Proposal No. 141 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to investigate and come back to Stortinget with proposals for a flight relief fee in South Norway, where there are good alternatives to aeroplanes.’ Proposal No. 142 sounds: «The government is asked to draw up new guidelines for its travel contracts for service claims which emphasise environmental considerations in addition to requirements for fastest and fairest offers.» Proposal No. 143 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce some form of clear CO 2 marking of flights using average figures for the flight in question, so that the customer is given this information clearly at the time of the electronic order before the end of the purchase process.’ Proposal No. 145 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a national standard for car-free heart zones around all kindergartens and kindergartens by 2023. This means that children who are being driven are dropped off at marked stop and pick-up points outside the zone, so that the immediate vicinity of the school and kindergarten is made safer for the kindergartens and pupils who are walking or cycling.» Proposal No. 146 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a wide-ranging public body in which professionals, inter alia: transport, climate change, ecology and agriculture are well represented, in order to identify new, more sustainable models of socio-economic benefits in transport projects. On this basis, the government is asked to come to Stortinget with a notification by the end of 2022.» Proposal No. 147 sounds: ‘In view of the introduction of road tolls on the main cities earmarked for the development and improvement of capacity on the rails in the same corridor, the Government asks the Commission to: Proposal No. 149 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to allow municipalities to regulate parking on private grounds and to introduce a reward scheme for municipalities that reduce street parking places and facilitate multiple car-free streets and spaces.’ Proposal No. 150 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to set targets for the completion of the external Intercity during the NTP period and to return to the Stortinget with this in the future state budget.’ Proposal No. 151 sounds: ‘The government is asked to launch a new high-speed investigation, developed by the external trade union community, which assesses high-speed rail in a multi-purpose concept for freight and passenger transport, with many stations in a varied stopping pattern. In order to contribute to rapid progress, it should be assessed whether the studies of Norsk Bane and Deutsche Bahn International can be used as a basis for such an investigation and whether they can also be used as a basis for a KVU or KS1.’;» Proposal No. 152 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to wind up New Weier AS as soon as practicable and legally possible.’ Proposal No. 153 sounds: ‘The Government is asked immediately to take the initiative to relaunch the planning of the new Oslo railway tunnel and to propose that funds be made available to this end in the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 154 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the start of the construction of double tracks throughout the Oslo–Halden route and beyond to the Swedish border, with objectives of completion during the planning period.’ Proposal No. 156 sounds: ‘The Government requests the start of the planning, design and start-up of electrification of the Røros Railway and the Solørbahn in view of full electrification during the first six-year period.’ Proposal No. 157 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to have as its objective the annual budgets to complete the development of double tracks throughout the Oslo-Tønsberg route and continue to Skien during the planning period.’ Proposal No. 158 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to upgrade the Ålgårdbahn for passenger services for reopening and to provide for start-up appropriations for late expansion in the state budget for 2024.’ Proposal No. 159 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to take responsibility for the necessary upgrading of Tinnosban and for the first sub-allocation to be made available on a proposal for a State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 160 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to have as its objective in the annual budgets to complete the development of double tracks throughout the Oslo-Lillehammer route during the planning period.’; Proposal No. 161 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to stop the construction of E6 over the Laagendelta north of Lillehammer and to instruct New Vejer AS to scale down the road on the Moelv-Øyer route from the four-field motorway to a repair option in two- and three-field concepts.’ Proposal No. 162 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to proposals for the State budget for 2022 with sufficient funds for the full-electrication of the Tronderbahnen and the Meråkerbahnen to Steinkjer and Storlien.’ Proposal No. 163 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return of the government budget for 2022 with a plan for electrification of the Grong station’. Proposal No. 164 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the entire section of the Nordlandsbanen is electrified by 2030.’ Proposal No. 165 sounds: ‘The government immediately asks the government to stop all plans and to start expanding four-field motorways on the E6 in Trøndelag north of Trondheim.’ Proposal No. 166 reads: ‘In its negotiations on the Oslo urban growth agreement, the government asks for a new T-Bahn tunnel through Oslo as such an important project for the whole collective system in the Oslo region that it is fully lifted out of the urban growth agreement and fully financed by the State.’ Proposal No. 167 sounds: ‘The government is asked in its negotiations on the Oslo urban growth agreement to take the initiative in further planning of a path solution for Lower Romerike, starting from the extension of the T-Bahn to the Ellingsrudåsen to Lørenskog. The objective shall be a start-up appropriation for the last part of the planning period.’;» Proposal No. 169 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to set aside funds in the State budget for 2022 for upgrading the railway on the Stavne-Leangen route so that it can be opened up for passenger services at 15 minutes’ frequency’.» Proposal No. 170 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals for the start-up grant for the city railway in Trondheim in the state budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 172 sounds: ‘The government asks Norway to be part of Deutsche Bahn’s co-operation on tickets ‘Sparpreis Europa’.’ Proposal No. 312 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to give priority to road maintenance in the road sector, so that the delays in maintenance on national and county roads have been removed before the end of the planning period.’ Proposal No. 313 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to start work on the conversion of Riksveg 4 between Sinsen and Grorud to local road as soon as possible. In the short term, by 2022, reduced speed limits shall be applied to 50 km/h, average speed measurements, collective fields and improved noise protection.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e3562	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 125, 128, 168 and 171 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 125 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to increase the profitability of the use of zero-emission fuels, in particular for heavy transport and ships.’ Proposal No. 128 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the start of a work on land accounting for natural habitat types in individual modes of transport, including the impact of the expansion on natural carbon stocks.’ Proposal No. 168 sounds: ‘The Government requests the launch of a draft selection inquiry for further extension from Lørenskog Centre to Lillestrøm/Kjeller’.» Proposal No. 171 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a draft selection study, or alternatively an opportunity study, for a new, modern double-track railway between Oslo and Gothenburg in cooperation with the Swedish authorities.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e3596	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 280, 286-288 and 293, from the Central Party. Proposal No. 280 sounds: «The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of Rv. 4 with portfolio expansion up to the year and extension of the Hagan tunnel with start-up at the latest in the second planning period.» Proposal No. 286 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of E134 Bakka-Solheim with start-up during the first planning period.’ Proposal No. 287 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of the E39 Astad–Bjerkeset with start-up during the first planning period.’ Proposal No. 288 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the deployment of E14 Stjørdal–Meråker starting in the first planning period.’ Proposal No. 293 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of the E6 Firevolgbakken with start-up during the first planning period.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e3633	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 285, 289-291, 307 and 372, from the Central Party. Proposal No. 285 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of the E39 Ringveg East with start-up during the first planning period.’ [[Wågsbotn-Klauvaneset]] Proposal No. 289 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of the E6 Helgeland South, also the two parcels farthest south of Grane, starting in the first planning period.’ Proposal No. 290 sounds: «The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of the E6 Wolfwaver with start-up during the first planning period.» Proposal No. 291 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the deployment of the E10 Lofoten with start-up during the first planning period.’ Proposal No. 307 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Norwegian Government to make it clear that any replacement of the rail offer from Arvika to Oslo must be linked to one of the existing railway routes in the region, Kongswingerbanen or Inner Eastfold.’ Proposal No. 372 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Alta airport is kept open and functional.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e3678	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 281, 282, 284, 294, 295 and 308, from the Centre Party. Proposal No. 281 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of E16 Ferne’s South-Hande with start-up during the first planning period.’ Proposal No. 282 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of Rv.15 The strynefjellet with start-up during the first planning period.’ Proposal No. 284 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of E39 Extensive improvements by Byrkekelo-Sandane starting in the first planning period.’ Proposal No. 294 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of E6 New Cross-Resolution Olsborg with start-up during the first planning period.’ Proposal No. 295 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of the E8 Lavangs Valley, starting in the first planning period.’ Proposal No. 308 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to increase the grant to the county road by 4 billion. krona, from 15.3 billion. SEK 19.3 billion. crowns.’» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e3724	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 279, 283, 296-306 and 309-311, from the Centre Party. Proposal No. 279 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of E16 Nymoen-Eggemoen with start-up at the latest in the second planning period.’ Proposal No. 283 sounds: «The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of Rv. 13 The Vikaberg tunnel with start-up during the first level period.» Proposal No. 296 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to start planning the Grenlandsbanen’. Proposal No. 297 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to start planning double-track walkways on the Haug-Seut route.’ Proposal No. 298 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to start planning double tracks on the route Fredrikstad–Halden Double tracks or double-sports walkll’. Proposal No. 299 sounds: ‘The government requests the start of work on electrification of the Kongsvinger-Elverum-Hamar route.’ Proposal No. 300 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to start the work of expanding Kongswinger, Elverum and Hamar together with a new timber terminal at Brandval.’ Proposal No. 301 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to start double-tracking work on the Akersvika Hamar route with start-up during the first scheduled period.’ Proposal No. 302 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to start work on the Brumundal–Moelv and Moelv–Lillehammer routes in the first planning period.’ Proposal No. 303 sounds: «The Government requests the start of the work of electrification at the Rørosbanen starting at the latest in the second planning period.» Proposal No. 304 sounds: ‘The government requests the start of double-track work on the Tønsberg-Stokke route.’ Proposal No. 305 sounds: ‘The government requests the start of electrification work Stjørdal-Steinker with start-up at the latest in the second planning period.’ Proposal No. 306 sounds: ‘The Government requests to start upgrading the Tinnosban with start-up at the latest in the second scheduled period.’ Proposal No. 309 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to repair Ballstad port during the first scheduled period.’ Proposal No. 310 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Narvik Tunnel to be accelerated if the Alpint 2027 World Cup is to be held in Narvik, so that the works are completed before the major event’.» Proposal No. 311 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of E16 Nymoen-Eggemoen with start-up at the latest in the second planning period.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e3821	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 354 to 356, 358, 369 and 371, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 354 sounds: «By the end of 2021, the government is asking for solutions with Agder County Municipality and the Municipality of Lindesne to create a new road between E39 and Spangereid.» Proposal No. 355 sounds: ‘By the end of 2021, the government is asking for solutions in cooperation with the municipality of Agder County and the municipality of Arendal to establish a new route from E18 to the port of Arendal and to assess whether the link via county road 415 to the port should be national road.’ Proposal No. 356 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for priority to be given to the restoration of the entrance to the Arendal centre through Galtesund, as well as to extending the entrance to the Arendal port, with the aim of facilitating cruise traffic and major ships.’ Proposal No. 358 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of the E6 Oslo East in the first six-year period and to starting work on the State plan for the project.’ Proposal No. 369 sounds: ‘The size is positive to the reopening of civil air traffic from Moss airport Back and will contribute to this, inter alia. by maintaining the duty-free regime, being positive to the concession and other measures that may increase the risk of reopening.’;» Proposal No. 371 sounds: ‘The Government requests priority to the E6 Oslo East project for the first six-year period, given local commitment to the project after 2023.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e3864	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19–37, 39, 40, 42–45, 47–55, 57–66, 70–85, 88–96, 98–101, 105, 112, 118, 119 and 121, from the Party of Progress. Proposal No. 19 reads: «The government asks the government to increase the financial framework for the transport plan by 400 billion. krona with the following breakdown: New priorities compared to government proposals Distribution of the increased budget framework Investments Highway investment, toll winding-up and investment scheme for minor remedial projects 320 B.C.E. kronor Railway investment 40 B.C.E. kronor Freight Package 20 B.C.E. kronor Coastal investment 1 billion. kronor Maintenance Road maintenance national road, removing the maintenance seat drivage during the planning period. Benchmarking of efficiency through the use of competition 15 B.C.E. kronor in addition to government proposals Railway infrastructure maintenance, removal of the maintenance set during the planning period. Benchmarking of efficiency through the use of competition 10 B.C.E. kronor in addition to government proposals Coastal infrastructure maintenance siting, removal of maintenance seat drivage during the planning period 1st billion. kronor in addition to government proposals Strengthen the allocation of racial protection on highways and roads 15 B.C.E. kronor in addition to government proposals Compensate for the reduction of the Infrastructure Fund in order to liquidate the toll collected, cf. Representative proposal 275 S to delete tolls processed [[2020-2021]] 12 B.C.E. kronor Return roads reclassified from national road to county road in the context of the 2010 administrative reform 20 B.C.E. prior priority for upgrading of previous highways; Supports for bridge reinforcement, particularly relevant to the county road network, the Brus programme 1 billion. kronor Cut proposals compared to government arrangements Winding up the system of urban growth agreements and urban packages while establishing new schemes for investment in large collective projects and for the operation of public transport in large cities - Thirty billion. kronor Settlement grant scheme for urban growth agreements for smaller urban areas - Six hundred million. kronor Expected efficiency improvement by building with predictable framework conditions in portfolio Twenty-five billion. kronor The Progress Party believes that there is still a potential for roadside savings under the auspices of Nye Weier AS’» ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e4018	Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the reclassification of roads from national road to county road in the context of the 2010 administrative reform.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set up the State Roads Project Department, which is allocated 12 road sections in a start-up portfolio: Public Roads Administration, Portfolio Project E6 Oslo East E18 West Corridor Rv. 4 Raufoss – Oslo included fv. [[(Cross-Cross-Cross-Cross-Cross-Cross-Cross-Cr]] 22 Watm – Gjelleråsen E39 Ringvei Øst [[reclassified]] E39 Hordfast E39 Rogfast E39 Bokn – Stord [[binding]] E134 East, including Damåsen-Saggrenda, Dagslet-E18 Rv. 13 Mountain of the Week E16 Payers South-Hand Rv. 15 Otta–Måløy–Strynfjellet with arm to Geiranger E6 Fauske–Bognes New Wee’s portfolio is allocated to 23 new road projects and 4 railway projects: [[Mergården-Mørsvikbotn]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e4222	Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish the Bane NOR Project Department as a dedicated development department assigned to the following start-up portfolio: Path NOR Portfolio Project Oslo-Navet, new regional train tunnel under Oslo Vestfoldbanen Stokke – Torp – Sandefjord, Outer IC Ostfoldbanen Moss-Fredrikstad, Haug-Seut Goods package Dovrebanen, Inner and Outer IC In order to ensure that the Bane NOR Project Department is able to expand the allocated portfolio of projects as well as develop the freight package, the Project Department is allocated 4.5 billion. annual crowns for the next 20 years.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e4266	Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up its own project department of the State Road Administration, which will have the same framework conditions and predictable funding as the road company Nye Weger.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to provide Bane NOR with the same framework conditions and predictable funding as the road company Nye Wegener for a development portfolio.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asked to wind up today’s toll system and to provide state full funding for infrastructure and national transport plan.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government requests the closure of the Special Nursing Standard with the extension of the 2/3-field road and the construction of the narrow 4-field road as a new standard.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to establish new road standards that are in line with what is available in Sweden and Denmark.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a new speed limit strategy based on the following on the non-conference road and where mid-recording is enhanced: 90 km/h on the 2-field road, 100 km/h on the 2/3-field road, 110 km/h on the narrow four-field road and 130 km/h on the full standard four-field road.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of the VV status from the vehicle of 20 years’ age’.» Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government requests the winding-up of urban growth agreements and urban packages’.» Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government requests the conclusion of ongoing urban growth agreements and urban packages.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asking to stop new initiatives to establish urban growth agreements or urban packages.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: «The government is asked to establish new grant schemes for investments in large collective projects and the operation of public transport as an alternative. Premise whether zero growth targets and tolls shall be closed.’» Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to conclude the urban growth agreement for Bergen.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to conclude the urban growth agreement for Trondheim.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to conclude the urban growth agreement for the North-Jear.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to conclude the urban growth agreement for Oslo.’ Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a critical review of today’s standards on the design of roundabouts and the shifting of sidecars, with the aim of significantly reducing such unnecessary additional costs.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a critical review of the current use of funds for archaeological excavations in the development of road projects, with the aim of making appropriate and reduced use of funds for this purpose.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider removing a number of climate, environmental and natural diversity requirements that lie in planning processes for new road projects, resulting in unnecessary cost increases for development projects.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to investigate further the extension of the high-speed rail network, including from Trøndelag to Tromsø and beyond to Kirkenes.’ Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assign the Oslo-Navet project, new regional train tunnel under Oslo to the Bane NOR project department portfolio.’ Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assign Goods Packages to the portfolio of the Bane NOR project.’ Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the full development of the port of Borg.’ Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to allocate E6 Oslo Øst to the portfolio of the State Roads Project Department.’ Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to allocate the Haug-Seut section on the Eastfold Railway to the Bane NOR project department’.» Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to allocate the line E18 Oslo-riksgren to the portfolio of New Roads’. Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to allocate the lines E16 and Rv. 2 Gardermoen, Kongswinger to Magnormoen complete extension to the portfolio of New Roads.» [[Kurudsand]] Proposal No. 52 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to allocate the route rv. 35, Hokksund – Against the portfolio of New Roads.’ Proposal No. 53 sounds: «The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of R & D. 41/rev. 451 Timenes - Kjevik [[Kjevikvejen]] Proposal No. 54 sounds: «The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of e.g. 460 Spangreidwegen, Lindesnes to E39.’» Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘The Government requests the provision of facilities for floating tower services at Gullknoše Arendal.’ Proposal No. 57 sounds: «The government is asked to grant rv. 19 Moss for the New Roads portfolio.’ Proposal No. 58 sounds: «The government asks the Government to assign Project E18 to Larvik Port to the portfolio of New Roads.» Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to award the budget for the following year. 410 Arendal port to E18 for the portfolio of New Roads.’» Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to allocate E18 Gartnerløkka–Kolsdalen to the portfolio of New Roads and to scale down the project.’ Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assign the E39 Ålgård–Hove to the portfolio of New Veger.’ Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to allocate the railway project Vestfoldbanen Outer IC to the portfolio of New Roads’. Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘The Government requests the allocation of planning tasks for the Grenlandsbanen, planning within the New Roads portfolio.’ Proposal No. 64 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to award the Vestfoldbahnen Parsellen Stokke-Torp-Sandefjord, Outer InterCity, to the portfolio of the Bane NOR project.’ Proposal No. 65 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to allocate the E18 West Corridor to the portfolio of the Statens vägvesen Projekt.» Proposal No. 66 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to allocate E134 East, inter alia Damåsen-Saggrenda, Dagslett-E18, Elgsjø-Saggrenda, Seljestad-Vågsli, to the portfolio of the Statens vägvesen Projekt.’ Proposal No. 70 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to allocate E39 Smien–Harestad to the portfolio of New Roads.’ Proposal No. 71 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assign the E39 Ålesund-Molde/Romsdalsaksen/Blindheim-Breivika to the portfolio of Nye Veier’. Proposal No. 72 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to allocate the E39 Ringweg Øst to the portfolio of the State Road Project Department.’ Proposal No. 73 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assign E39 Hordfast to the portfolio to the Statens vägvesen Project Department.’ Proposal No. 74 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to allocate the E39 Book–Stord to the portfolio to the Statens vägvesen Project Department.’ Proposal No. 75 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to allocate the E39 Rogfast to the portfolio of the State Roads Project Department.’ Proposal No. 76 sounds: «The government is asked to grant rv. 13 The Vikaberg of the portfolio of the State Road Administration project department.’» Proposal No. 77 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to allocate E16 Payers South-Hand to the portfolio of the State Roads Project Department, starting early in the first period.’ Proposal No. 78 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to allocate E39 Ringweg east to the portfolio to the Statens vägvesen project department.’ Proposal No. 79 sounds: ‘The Government requests the extension of the E16 Cross at Helgelandsmoen to the portfolio of New Vee.’ [[FRE16]] Proposal No. 80 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to allocate the E16 Eggemoen–Nymoen to the New Vee’s portfolio.’ [[FRE16]] Proposal No. 81 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to award the E16 Highcast-Honey Foss to Nye Veier’s portfolio.’ [[(FRE16) (Joint project railway)]] Proposal No. 82 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to award its portfolio to E16 Arna–Stanghelle to Nye Veier.’ [[common railway project]] Proposal No. 83 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assign E134 West with its arm to Bergen, including Bakka–Solheim, Vågsli–Seljestad, to Nye Veier’s portfolio.’ Proposal No. 84 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to award the Ringeriksbanen railway project to Nye Veier’s portfolio’.» [[FRE16]] Proposal No. 85 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to allocate the Vosebanen railway project to Nye Veier’s portfolio’.» [[joint road project]] Proposal No. 88 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to conduct an investigation of the Ottadalen Airport.’ Proposal No. 89 sounds: «The government is asked to grant rv. 25, complete extension of Hamar-Løten-Trysil. Rv3 Løten–E6 Stage/Romedal to Nye Weier’s portfolio.’ Proposal No. 90 sounds: ‘The government asks the Swedish Government to award its portfolio to E6 Dombås–Ulsberg.’ Proposal No. 91 reads: «The Government asks the Government to award the Klett Cross project. E6/E39 to Nye Weier’s portfolio.’ Proposal No. 92 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to assign the project E6 Sokndalen tunnel to Nye Veier’s portfolio.» Proposal No. 93 sounds: «The government is asked to grant rv. 4 Biri–Raufoss to Nye Weier’s portfolio.’ Proposal No. 94 sounds: «The government is asked to grant rv. 15 Otta–Måløy–Strynefjellet with arm to Geiranger to the State Road Administration Project Department.’ Proposal No. 95 sounds: «The government is asked to award 3 rv. 4 Raufoss – Oslo included fv. [[(Cross-Cross-Cross-Cross-Cross-Cross-Cross-Cr]] 22 Väm-Gjelleråsen of the State Road Administration Project Department.’ [[reclassified]] Proposal No. 96 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to allocate the Dovreban inner and outer InterCity to the Bane NOR project.’ Proposal No. 98 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assign E6 Åsen–Asphaugen to Nye Veier’s portfolio.’ [[revalidation of Åsen-Steinkjer]] Proposal No. 99 sounds: «The government is asked to grant rv. 80 and E6 Bodø-Fauske with conversion of Rv. 80 and E6 out of Fauske’s centre to Nye Weier’s portfolio.’» Proposal No. 100 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to award E14 between Stjørdal and the Swedish border to Nye Veier’s portfolio.’ Proposal No. 101 sounds: «The government is asked to grant rv. 4 Biri–Raufoss to Nye Weier’s portfolio.’ Proposal No. 105 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of cruise and multi-purpose skis in Alta.’ Proposal No. 112 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of the Kvålo link via Håkøya in Tromsø.’ Proposal No. 118 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the deployment of E6 Alta Parsell 1 – the route of relief for new E6’. Proposal No. 119 sounds: «The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of E6 Alta Bru – Parsell 2. ‘... Proposal No. 121 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to allocate E6 Fauske-Bognes to the portfolio of the State Roads Project Department.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e4658	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 38, 46, 68, 69, 87, 97, 104, 110, 111, 113, 114, 117, 120, 357, and 365, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce free national and county roads during the landfill period 2021 to 2025.’ Proposal No. 46 sounds: «The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of e.g. 118 Sarpsbro.’» Proposal No. 68 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of the Karmsundet, Trollholmen project.’ Proposal No. 69 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of the Tananger internal port.’ Proposal No. 87 sounds: «The government is asked to give priority to further development of R & D. 70 to the river fjord." Proposal No. 97 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of E6 Helgeland Sør, the last parcels.’ Proposal No. 104 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to improvements at Banak airport.’ Proposal No. 110 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to improvements to the E6 Salt Mountain and the Bjørn Mountain in order to ensure better winter regulation.’ Proposal No. 111 sounds: «The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of R & D. 83 Fauskevåg-Harstad.’ Proposal No. 113 sounds like: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of E-E10 Fiskebøl-Nappstraumen’. Proposal No. 114 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to improvements to E45 Eiby – to ensure better accessibility of E45 through Eiby’. Proposal No. 117 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the completion of the E6 Transfarelv bridge.’ Proposal No. 120 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of project E6 Stream Bridge.’ Proposal No. 357 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a premium of SEK 1.5 billion in the first period and SEK 1 billion in the second period for the start of a new timber terminal in Kongswinger and planning funds for the IC sections in Larvik and Fredrikstad.’ Proposal No. 365 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the project E39 Vågsbotn-Klauvaneset with state full funding and start-up during the first six-year period.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e4749	There is a vote on proposal No. 86, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to step up its efforts to improve R & D. 3 in addition to the proposal in the national transport plan.’.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e4766	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 67, 115 and 116 of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 67 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of Furneset fergekai’. Proposal No. 115 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further priority to be given to the improvement and establishment of the middle parts of the E8 Lavangs Valley.’ Proposal No. 116 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of the route along existing E6 Tana Bru-Skipagurra.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e4795	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 359, 362–364 and 366–368, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 359 sounds: « The Government is asked by the Government to assign New Veier AS responsibility for Rv. 4 Biri-Jaren.’ Proposal No. 362 sounds: "The Government requests the prioritisation of the Rv project. 13 The Viking Mountain Tunnel with State funds equals 500 million kroner in the first six-year period and 2.6 billion kroner in the second period.» Proposal No. 363 sounds: «The government asks the government to give priority to the project Rv. 15 The strenuous mountain with state funds equals $1 billion in the first six-year period and $3 billion in the second six-year period.» Proposal No. 364 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the project E134 Bakka–Solheim with state full funding and start-up during the first six-year period.’ Proposal No. 366 sounds: «The government requests priority to the project E8 Lavangsdalen with SEK 500 million in the first six-year period.» [[correction/traffic safety measures]] Proposal No. 367 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the project E14 Stjørdal–Stollien by government funds of 500 million kroner in the first six-year period and 4,5 billion in the second six-year period.’ Proposal No. 368 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the project E16 Fenernes Sør-Hande by government funds of SEK 1 billion in the first six-year period and SEK 1.2 billion in the second six-year period.’ The Central Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e4845	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 56, 103, 360, 361 and 370, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take initiatives to further develop the Notodden Airport in cooperation with the County Municipality.’ Proposal No. 103 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of Leknes Airport Lofoten’. Proposal No. 360 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the expansion of the Haug-Seut route on the Eastfold Railway in the first six-year period.’ Proposal No. 361 sounds: « The government asks the government to give priority to full State funding of Rv. 282 Holmenbrua with a total of 953 million. crowns in the first six-year period.» Proposal No. 370 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to use the same principles for the use of ferry solvents on both national and county roads, at least at the level of the current county roadferry system.’ The centre party and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e4886	There is a vote on proposal No. 41, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a critical review of the cost growth of the operating and maintenance budgets and for proposals for the Storting with concrete measures to streamline this part of the road sector.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e4903	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 102 and 106-109, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 102 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of the crossing tracks Fagerlia/Sisterbeck on Ofotbanen.’ Proposal No. 106 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of the Brønnøilden.’ Proposal No. 107 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of Ballstad port.’ Proposal No. 108 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of the port of Sørvær.’ Proposal No. 109 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of Mehamn, deepening.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e4943	There is a vote on proposal No. 292, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of the E6 Winter Open Sennaland/Saltberg/Bjørnberg starting in the first planning period.’ The Progress Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e4960	There is a vote on proposal No. 278, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of Rv. 350 crossings with detour to fv. 287 starting at the latest during the second planning period.» The Progress Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e4977	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13, 16–18 and 314 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to launch an independent draft selection investigation of the Nord-Norway where the objective of realisation is taken into account.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Arna–Stanghelle K5 project must have a simultaneous start-up for rail and road, by 2024 at the latest, and that sufficient funds are provided for this start-up in the State budgets for 2022 and 2023.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure the implementation of the planned crossing track in Fagerlia/Sisterbeck v. Bjørnfjell/Riksgren in the first planning period.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that Gulskogen station is extended in line with previous plans and agreements with the municipality of Drammen.’ Proposal No. 314 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to develop a framework for a major, long-term project in climate-neutral aviation, where the establishment of a test centre in North Norway will be central, and to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner, including with proposals for start-up appropriations for this purpose.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5017	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the launch of a pilot project for the use of fuel cells with zero-emission hydrogen on at least one of the non-electricated routes.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5035	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the safe development of the E6 Narvik tunnel with completion by 2027.’» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5052	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to ensure that universal design is required for all transport projects and that the necessary means are set aside to integrate universal design into the planning process of all individual projects.» The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5069	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to continue planning the interconnection of Vestfoldbanen and Sørlandsbanen in view of the mid-term construction start’.» [[Generic calculation]] The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5086	There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to draw up, together with the county councils, a comprehensive and binding plan to reduce the maintenance run on county roads and to enable county municipalities to comply with this plan.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5103	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked immediately to initiate an independent review and evaluation of the various reforms and their impact on the professional environment in the road sector.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to implement an infringement of how road construction is to be organised and implemented in order to ensure that it is organised as efficiently and as efficiently as possible.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the continuation of the environmental aid scheme for goods on the road beyond 2021 and considers it established as a permanent scheme.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in an external evaluation of the railway reform.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5138	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-7, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The majority believe that the ambition for the InterCity operation on the Dovrebanen, Østfoldbanen, Vestfoldbanen and Ringeriksbanen is at stake.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to start planning the reopening of the Eastern line of Eastfold for both passenger and freight transport in the first period of the national transport plan.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to assume that the State is responsible for the maintenance and upgrading of the Tinnos Railway, so that the track can be restored and Norway can discharge its responsibilities for the world heritage of Rjukan-Notodden industrial heritage.’ The Progress Party, the Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5167	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the continuation of the project to cut and solve the challenges faced by the Svinesundsterskkelen for the entrance to Halden.’ The Labour Party, the Right, the Centre Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Red have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5184	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5195	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5209	I could not vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5214	I should have voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5219	We're correcting the number of votes. The result is that 57 representatives voted in favour of the Committee's position and 30 voted against. – Thus the setting is consonant. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5246	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5266	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party, proposal No 3, from Siv Mossleth on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 4 and 5, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to incorporate a new target into all relevant decisions and documents, about 40 pst. reduction of passenger car traffic in all major cities by 2030.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5295	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for an appropriate ban on the sale of fossil cars by 2025 if the objective of the Stortinget is not achieved through the charging system as an instrument, and to return to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner before the submission of the State budget for 2022.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5312	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to clarify that the measure of increased sales of zero-emission vehicles does not mean the prohibition of the sale of petrol and diesel vehicles.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5329	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5345	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the continued sale of petrol and diesel cars in the Norwegian market even after 2025.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to propose to wind up the zero growth target and to facilitate the use of the car as an attractive means of transport for people in both urban and rural areas.’ The Green and Red Environmental Party has announced support for the adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5376	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to amend existing manuals for standard requirements for the construction of bicycles and pedestrian paths, so as to open up simpler and cheaper solutions. The size expects new simplified standard requirements to be introduced during 2021 and to be used particularly outside the major cities.» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Green and Red Environmental Party has announced support for the adjustment. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5409	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party, proposal No 3, from Siv Mossleth on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the government to increase its permitted speed for mopeds.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5435	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size requires the government to introduce 120 km/h as a new upper speed limit on the motorway. The amendment shall be introduced by 1 July 2021.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government requests that the allowed speed of mopeds be increased from 45 km/h to 60 km/h. The amendment shall be implemented as soon as possible and no later than 1 July 2021.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5457	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5468	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5480	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5488	The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5514	The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5540	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5559	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5575	The Party of Advancement and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5594	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget approves revised financing arrangements for the Harstad Road Package and assumes that the road package is completed without the use of toll financing. Government funds are increased correspondingly the proposed share of tolls, and the government is asked to redeem the residual loan debt of the toll company. Toll collection in the Harstad road package is terminated.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5631	Red has notified subsidiary aid to the suspension. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5645	The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1-3 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5658	During the debate, Lars Haltbrecken put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. In the case of Recommendation B, it is identical to a recommendation submitted to the Stortinget meeting on 11 March 2021 and will refer to: Thus, the fifth paragraph of Section 38 of the Rules of Procedure is not reopened. It is voted on by the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to examine the basis for the two compulsory payees in June 2021 in the light of the claims that the basis is thin and to seek answers as to whether this intervention in the strike is acceptable under the strike rights and international obligations.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5679	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5710	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5722	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5736	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5748	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5775	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5787	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5801	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5813	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5899	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5910	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5945	The size would then go back to the debate on case No. 4, and the next speaker is Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5950	First, like many before me, I would like to take the opportunity to extend a great deal of thanks to municipalities, residents, businesses, public servants, and especially health workers, for the efforts that have been made in the situation and the everyday life in which we live. In particular, I want to boast of Norwegian municipalities, small and large, about how they have handled the pandemic. So to the matter: the treatment of the municipal bill is one of the most important things we do for Norwegian municipalities, although perhaps not everyone is aware that this is the absolute highlight of the spring. As the rapporteur, Mr Greni, has pointed out, the Central Party is promoting a solution with four points that we believe include many of the municipal challenges that other parties have also raised in this matter. We show in our loose proposal for the public sample that was set up last year, which is to go through the income system in the municipalities. The Committee shall deliver its opinion in June to the next year. The party currently proposes to extend the mandate of the panel to include, inter alia: assessment of a maximum limit for expenditure related to resource-intensive services. We also want the sample to assess a top-level funding scheme for municipalities with exceptionally high child protection costs, and we believe that the sample should consider removing the educational criterion as a sub-cost key for the calculation of childcare needs in municipalities. Finally, we ask the sample to assess compensation schemes for municipalities with high health costs related to the outlying population, for example. co-financing from the municipality to which the recipient pays taxes. The last point is pretty similar to VI in the recommendation, which the central part will vote for secondary. However, we believe it is right that the sample looks at all of these areas together, as they are very important for the economy of the municipalities. Most have in common, they are marked by considerable uncertainty and can impose disproportionate and unexpected additional costs on individual municipalities. I therefore hope that the majority in the Chamber makes sense to support the proposal for additional tasks in the mandate of the already reduced sample. Then I would like to take the opportunity to highlight a majority comment on veterinary preparedness, stressing that predictable access to veterinarians throughout the country has a major impact on animal welfare in the country. Therefore, municipalities still need to be earmarked for veterinary preparedness, which we received last year. Finally, I believe a small clarification from the government parties and the Progress Party on their proposal asking the government to consider a subsidy scheme for maintenance, upgrading and investment in the county road network with a framework of 1 billion. kr. The equivalent extra was added to the NTP yesterday, and the question is, is this the same billion, or is there two? If that's the last thing, it's very good, because there's no doubt that the maintenance run on the county roads is huge, and that it's needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5965	Norway is a long-distance country. We live in the inner valley and on the outer section, but most of us live somewhere in the middle. Over 80 pst. of us live in cities and towns. Here we have our homes and create our lives. Cities and agglomerations also face many of the major challenges where we need to find good policy solutions for the future, such as infrastructure, innovation, business development, housing, exclusion and integration, and not least sustainable climate and environment policies. Creating and further developing a good living environment throughout the country is also about municipal economy. A strong and robust local economy, as we put it, is helping to equip municipalities to pursue a good housing policy and a forward-looking urban and urban development. An important part of creating good lives is creating good homes and stronger communities. For the Workers' Party, it means a safe and good local environment with schools, bicycle paths and collective services, access to work, leisure and cultural services, and giving older people the opportunity to be bosses in their own lives, including: by letting them stay at home longer and have good institutions for them when they need it. The government's financial arrangements for the municipalities have been too tight over time. Growth is consumed by increased demographic costs and pension costs. We believe that the municipal sector has too little economic space for action. The Labour Party believes that the government's proposal for 2022 is too low when municipalities have large unsolved tasks in key welfare areas. The government does not enable municipalities to solve their tasks better. We have more ambitions than the government for better quality in welfare, care and school in the municipal sector. We believe that there is a need for a sharp increase in the growth in the income of municipalities and counties. The Workers' Party's structure therefore prioritises a strengthening of the municipal sector's revenues in 2022 by 3 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. In this debate, the government parties have tried to present the opposition as if we have hacked into the disc in terms of compensation for unforeseen expenditures that the municipalities have had in the last year. It is not strange that the local authorities are concerned about empty words from the government. The alert compensation in RNB for the cost of vaccination only in Oslo is significantly lower than the estimated costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5978	The municipalities have a large responsibility, and one of them is the primary health service. The fixed medical system is an important piece in it. The scheme is the foundation of municipal health services. Now the system is in crisis because the decision-makers are getting more and more tasks without increasing resources accordingly. The result is that both large and small municipalities have problems recruiting permanent staff, and it is the least central municipalities that report the main challenges. Already in 2016, the first notifications came that the scheme was in danger of collapse. In 2017, VG reported that nearly half of Norwegian municipalities were concerned about the recruitment of permanent workers. In the meantime, the situation is getting worse. The last year reports 85 pst. by municipalities that they have had challenges in recruiting permanent doctors, according to a report from the Societal Economic Analysis and the Medical Association. The government has reacted too late to the fixed crisis. When the government presented its action plan for general medical services in 2020, it was, according to the Medical Association, both too small and too late. The centre party believes that a strong increase in the number of permanent staff is needed to reduce the workload of each doctor and ensure the safe and stable coverage of permanent staff across the country. In the Central Party's alternative budget for 2021, we proposed a strengthening of the fixed medical system of approx. 400 million. kr with the following measures: 400 new start-ups for specialised general practitioners, a grant scheme to secure the medical care system in municipalities with special recruitment problems, and a grant scheme for municipalities that will try out new recruitment measures. A well-functioning fixed medical system ensures that sick people can receive health care close to their place of residence and by a doctor who knows them. The fasting crisis causes sick people to increasingly not meet the regular doctor who knows them, but random temporary workers. In the worst case, it causes people to stay standing completely undetermined. Therefore, it is urgent to secure the fixed medical system. Finally, I would like to make an explanation of vote. We are promoting our proposal No. 27, in which we ask for an overall supplementary mandate to the Committee on Income Systems, but we will inform you that we will vote in a subsidiary way for the proposals No. 20 and 21. In addition, the Centre Party will support proposal No. 12, from the Progress Party, where they ask the government for a guarantee that all households will have Internet access during 2025. I would also like to inform you that we support proposal No. 29, from Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e5995	The 2022 municipal bill draws a positive picture for the future. Local authorities have increased their free income by 35 billion dollars. kr since 2013. Local authorities have also received assurances that they will be fully compensated for the pandemic costs. In the light of what previously speaks, Hadia Tajik, said today, I would like to stress that in the Right we believe both in ordinary people and in ordinary businesses. Unlike the Workers' Party, we believe that a good society with good welfare services is created best by letting go of all good forces. The government's goal is to create more and include more. Digitalisation and technology open up whole new opportunities for citizens, for enterprises and for society through increased prosperity, better quality of life and sustainable development. This led the government to grant more than 1.5 billion permits. kr to new digitisation measures in the State budget for 2021. This came to the top of an already high digitization activity. Several of the new measures in 2021 are relevant to the municipal sector. This applies, for example: digital education in municipalities, national road database, establishment of ITS and joint municipal journal solution, and not least broadband. The co-financing mechanism has contributed from 2016 to 2020 to the realisation of digitisation measures that are expected to provide a total annual benefit for municipalities of more than 670 million. kr. In 2021, the allocation framework from this scheme is nearly 190 million. kr, which could trigger public digitisation investment with a total budget of between 218 and 379 million. kr. This gives a large potential for profits for municipalities that may be proactive, not least for their inhabitants and for their business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6006	All students deserve good teachers. We have a teacher crisis in Norway. We thank the government for that. The government has a heavy responsibility to provide qualified teachers in all classrooms. It is therefore frightening that the Prime Minister continues to claim that we have a positive development in teacher density. Teacher shortages have increased dramatically in recent years. The whole 15 pst. by primary school teachers and 21 pst. by secondary school teachers are unqualified. In addition, the number of applicants for teacher training is declining. In a few years, we'll be at risk of missing a total of 8,000 teachers in Norwegian school. Sharpened and unreasonable admission requirements for teacher training lead to the loss of hundreds of motivated applicants every year. In addition, it is reported that the separation of 33 000 experienced teachers by the fact that the government’s competence requirements for education have gained retroactive effect has contributed to teachers’ ending, withdrawing early retirement or simply not being offered a new job if they are applying for a new teaching position. The government has a responsibility to ensure good recruitment to the teaching profession. Time and again, the government parties, with the Progress Party on tow, have voted in favour of SV's proposal for a national initiative for more teachers in school. The separation of teachers and four requirements in mathematics are just some of the unreasonable choices made by the government in recruiting and retaining teachers. This country needs a new red-green government, a government that will take a force to get more teachers in Norwegian school. We in SV want the welfare state to be expanded, not cut down. Then the local economy needs to be strengthened in order to secure money for school and health. One of our most important issues in this election is going to be to introduce free SFO. All children should be allowed to play the game. Today, eight out of ten first-graders go to the SFO. They get to play and learn in the SFO, but at the same time there are some kids standing on the outside of the fence. When school is over, these kids don't get the safe place to be with adults who provide supervision and care. They're not allowed to participate in the game and the learning in the SFO. After the end of school, there are a lot of people who talk about home. A third of those who don't send their children to the SFO state the price as the reason, and we can't have it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6025	Most of the health care we get is in the municipalities or the counties. To get quick and good help, we need to strengthen the municipalities and the counties. It is sad that only I from SV in the Health Committee are involved in this debate. We have a mental health crisis in the country, and we had that before the pandemic hit Norway. Now it's even worse. During this right-hand government, we have lost 500 beds in mental health protection. In 2017, the right-wing voters promised that mental health protection would be strengthened by the Golden Rule. This would mean that more resources would go to mental health. The government has broken the promise every year. Now the Riksrevision has also said that, and the Psychologists' Association said that the golden rule is a political bluff. SV agrees with the Psychological Association. More have become sick and become even worse under the pandemic. An example is a large increase in eating disorders, which have hit children and young people hardest. SV suggests low-threshold mental health care where people live — nearly half a billion dollars. We propose to strengthen school health services and health centres with a large increase in a escalating drug treatment plan. Dental health is a hole in our welfare state that we have to fill. The delays we see in dental care are unworthy. Now it's urgent to expand the public dentistry so that we can do something for the 133,000 children and young people who are in line for dental care. We need to expand the offer to young people, the elderly and the whole population. Someone's talking about dental reform, but we're dealing. SV suggests over $30 billion to strengthen dental care. We need a fair Norway, and then the dental problems have to be treated like other diseases. We need a dental reform, and SV starts work on strengthening public dental care. It's one of the most important issues for SV in the election campaign. Then people can choose if they want less taxes for the rich or use this money to expand the public health system. SV wants a red-green government, not a center government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6037	I don't think it's just me who's still getting calls from the parents to those with developmental disabilities, and from people with disabilities, that the offer they get in the municipalities, in no way holds the goal. There are probably many people who have received enquiries about the system of user-led personal assistance, with whom municipalities are allowed to scald and choose because the government has refused to make a regulation that shows how this should be handled. Now there are several municipalities that cut down on this offer, so that people don't make any independent choices in their own lives. I can tell you that our representative in the county of Westfold and Telemark now gets so much cut off in his user-driven personal assistance that he has to resign from his political position. That's the situation in many municipalities. Therefore, the community economy needs to be strengthened, so that these arrangements for people who need the community more than others are actually there, and not just fine words. We have received reports of human rights violations in the care of the elderly. That's why SV is involved in this, and that's why we think it's more important to spend the money on this than to give to the richest in society. It's not like the money you give to the richest people, they shake down and become jobs or well-being. No, they stay there, and we see that the differences are increasing – year by year. It would have been much better for society and for the freedom of individuals, and it should have been everyone, that we had strengthened the community. SV is also very concerned that the young person we have will get the best offer of learning. That is why we are very concerned that everyone should be given an apprenticeship, and that high school — especially professional — needs to get a lift in equipment. We know that's what we're after. It's expensive, and there's fewer students now than before, but we have to take care of this, because everyone says it's in the profession we need the students to go. We encourage them and say that we need more professionals than those who have master degrees. That's true, but then 1) the schools have to be there, and 2) they have to have modern equipment that matches the business of these students. There is also a great need for health and care professionals in the public sector and in the municipal sector in the future, but municipalities are struggling with the economy. Therefore, SV proposes to increase the apprenticeship subsidy in the municipal sector in order for the municipal sector to absorb these apprentices, so that they can complete their education. It's necessary, because the municipalities don't have any earnings, they only have wage costs for these apprentices. This would have been a much smarter way to spend money than the one that the majority has.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6047	As mentioned earlier from the pulpit, we can see from the assumption that, starting with the municipal bill for 2023, the total income of municipalities is not estimated, on the grounds that there are many factors involved, and that it is difficult to get precise enough figures. The centre party is skeptical about this, as we know that the municipal bill of estimated total revenues is an important document for the municipalities to prepare their budget. However, if the calculation does not take 100 pst, it is a very necessary tool and far better than whether the municipalities should guess to the answer themselves. We can't expect the municipalities to wait with their budgets until after the government budget has been approved, and I'm excited about what the explanation from the government to the municipalities for this is, and how it's to be resolved. We in the Center Party are, as we know, followers of maintaining a diverse municipal and county structure, which requires political will for priority. We want municipalities to have a predictable and good economy, and we also want county councils to be able to solve their statutory tasks and be involved in the development of their collective services, for example. We therefore propose a separate grant scheme to ensure conversion to zero-emission technologies in municipal public transport. There are many coastal areas that have been successful in the conversion process, but it is also terriblely expensive. If you want to continue with the conversion in my county, Northland, the bill for the county municipality will be 1.5 billion. kr. It's beyond what is covered by the state through Enova. This is why ice cream is being put on, and this is a means that citizens would rather want to continue school lines, maintain secondary schools and have an acceptable route offer on those boats that actually exist there. Then the Central Party has made a proposal to ask for an investigation of a boat relief scheme based on the principles of the existing holiday relief scheme, as we see it as necessary to equalise the two. Finally, two things from the regional reform: the centre party is disappointed by the development of regional development funds, their removal or a significant reduction in recent years. This has been very important for, among other things. municipal food funds, and we believe that an escalation must take place. Finally, I would like to mention the example of fishing ports, which has proved to be a task that has been transferred to the new regions, where no account has been taken of what should happen with funds and how responsibility should be allocated. There are several of the largest states that have not signed. Now there's a document that testifies that it's not drawn up in line with the intention, so I'm eagerly waiting for a solution there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6059	If we are to succeed in using the whole country and create housing for new generations, both in rural and urban areas, we must give young people the opportunity to obtain both education and work. Both the public and private sectors need appropriate skills and labour, and so does the Municipality of Norway. It challenges us to impose the political framework conditions. We have to make our education system even more accessible to people most and no matter where people live. Today, I'm incredibly excited about what's going to be the government's new strategy for decentralised and flexible education, which is now right around the corner. As the Council of Asheim said recently, education and competence are not just the way out of the coronary crisis. It is crucial to create new jobs, and there is no doubt that education and skills contribute most to equalising differences in society. Over several years now, the government has established schemes and invested in the development of more flexible education services — flexible health care courses at the College of the Interior, ICT in kindergarten at the University of Eastfold or decentralised nursing training in Agder, etc. We see that for each of us, if we are to be able to learn throughout our lives regardless of where we live, there must be offers that can be combined with job, mortgage and family. That is why it means so much when the government now opens up significantly more flexible and decentralised offers. When Lånekassa opens up to more than first-time students, when the subject-school sector is addressed for better quality and new challenges, with 1,600 new places of study for vocational students in vocational schools and 500 in industrial colleges – doing good for industry and business in the districts. Similarly, the establishment of industry programmes and the lifting of competences for vulnerable industrial clusters. In 2019-2020, it was allocated around 100 million. kr to the higher education system, including continuing education, available to people at work and unable to move to an ordinary place of study. The scheme was strengthened by the Education promise in 2020. The same was true of the online services offered by universities and universities. Through the Koronacrisa, we have seen that many tasks can be solved independently of where we live, including education and skills building. Before we talked about decentralised offers that would meet people who live far away from campers, who can't or don't want to move on. Today we see that new offers also have to be flexible and meet those who live a stone's throw away, but who have no time or opportunity to follow a rigid course of education. There is no doubt that the education system of the future is more flexible and that it will benefit the whole country. It gives us opportunities, new opportunities, whether we live in town or built, and it facilitates our government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6072	There are two things that tickle out in the debate today that the opposition is busy with. It's that Right is for the coercion of municipalities. It can be refuted. It can also be proven if a person is only allowed to read references from this room. So it's this because it's a bad community economy. It can also be refuted if you just read the entire community proposition, especially point 2.2 – then there might be a light coming up for more people in this room. So the growth is larger than what one of the Workers' Party was able to describe in its article. Yesterday I witnessed a Facebook message from Hadia Tajik. She claimed that the right side had weakened the municipal economy, and that this was what caused Nav Inner Eastfold to write a fatal decision that a man could benefit from a barbecue — a totally terrible decision. My point is that the local economy is not weak, and especially not in Inner Eastfold. Eighty-three million. kr was set aside on operating funds last year, they went by 104 million. kr more in surplus than they budgeted for. In addition, they managed to remove the property tax and save the population for 40 million. kr. Nevertheless, the Labour Party says that they should have higher growth and more money on the table. They're saying they're adding 3 billion to the state's rights. If one takes the entire budget below one, we're approaching 700 billion, if I'm not completely wrong. And if one divides these three billion here, the number is going to be something like 0.042-- so it's going to be promiles, so this is going to be the difference between the starvation of Norwegian municipalities and wealth. So it's going to be the big ambitions of the Workers' Party in relation to this government. Understand the one who can. And it's going to solve the fixed crisis, it's going to solve a crisis within both psychiatry and health and school and child protection, and I'm not going to be completely wrong – although they haven't written it in the settings of the community proposition this time, they wrote it in their budget last year – it's also going to be free school food for the students. There's no way that this prom will cover society's challenges and the Workers' Party's desires.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6088	First, I'm very pleased with the post to Tveiten Benestad, because it's clear that the government has now understood what the Center Party has been talking about for eight years, that we need to have a more decentralised education, we need to have an offer near where people live, and we need to have an offer people can take advantage of, even if they are, for example. is responsible for family or other things that make them unable to go out to study. It is absolutely essential that you have access to competence in the district if we are to get people out of the district. Then it's a terrible shame that this government started the process of shutting down Nesna, which was actually an important offer to gain competence in the district, to make sure that the municipalities there had access to nurses, teachers, etc. It's pretty worrying that a process like this starts with putting down an offer. But my challenge to the district minister is the question of a differentiated employer's fee. We all agree that it is an incredible tool for district policy, and what many are asking about now is: Where are the negotiations with ESA, and when are we going to get a clarification there? The question that at least business associations are constantly putting me away is: How is the discussion about whether one can have multiple zones within a merged municipality? There are now many of the new municipalities that have several employer tax zones, and they have continued for a while. Will they continue with that in the future as well? And another question that comes in the wake of it: Will it be relevant for other municipalities with a similar nature to get different employer tax zones within those municipalities? I hope the district minister can answer that. So to the debate on coercion. Sometimes when I'm here in the hall, the debate is actually informative, and I get a little bit more when I go out than I did when I got in. The council is probably right that I am terribly heavy about it, but it didn't get any better when the council wouldn't answer the question I asked, and it wasn't at all about it. For the simple question is, What will the Right do after the election? Will we have more coercion if the Right comes to power after the election, or is it not up to date in the 2021-2025 period to implement new coercion? I think that's the question I get no matter what municipality I'm in, at least the smaller municipalities. It's very nice if you could answer yes or no to that question, so maybe it would have gone in with me too.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6101	Now a lot is said in all of these hours. But at least we've got a clarification or two. It will be a minimum settlement for municipalities if the current government is allowed to continue after the election. It's become very clear. The second thing that is clear is that if the municipalities are to get more money to develop welfare in a better way, a new government must come with a new policy course after the September elections. Then I register that the representative Trellevik is very dissatisfied with the fact that the Workers' Party prioritises the municipal economy better and stronger than the right and government parties do. I understand that it may be a bit difficult to take over. But that's a fact. And we mean to add 3 billion. In addition to the government's proposals, local authorities will be helped to make it somewhat more liberal and could have the opportunity to take a better grip on the quality of service development. That the representative Trellevik believes that 3 billion. kr is nothing to care about, I have a little difficulty understanding. I want to end not only a long day, it is probably also the last debate the municipal committee has in this room before we meet again after the election, by thanking both committee secretaries and the staff around, everyone who helps us do our job, makes it possible, all the help we get with correction and understanding how things sometimes relate. Without the great administration of Storting, this had never gone well. That's what I wanted to say. And then I want to say a thousand thanks to those who are members of the committee, those who have chaired the committee. It's been neat, it's been good. If from time to time we may have been a little annoyed at each other politically and have disagreed, there is one thing, but it's been a good mood, and we've managed to have a nice time together, although of course we're not always as united politically. So, thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6112	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6117	I would also like to thank both the committee and the administration. Now we have two more things on the case list today, so I guess we'll talk a little bit more. The reason I took the floor was because one of these recurring things was that the government says they've spent more money on yours and more money on your daughter. Yeah, it was supposed to be missing. You spend so much more oil money than you've ever done. No government has had as much money as this government. So it's clear you have to be able to spend that money on something reasonable. Should it have been exactly the same thing as it was eight or twelve years ago? There's no particularly impressive argument. I would also like to thank the representative Tveiden Benestad for her contribution. That's a very important point, the representative Tveiden Benestad is coming along. And then I'm going to draw attention to IV, where we're saying that we have to ensure a basic funding of the infrastructure that needs to be located in some places. Many educations may be quite flexible, but some people need that hood for this to work well in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6126	The representative, Norunn Tveiden Benestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6131	Just briefly to the representative, Mr. Greni: I think we agree this time, that decentralised and flexible education is important and will become even more important in the future. But it's not just about where campus should be. We've seen it very clearly now through the Koronacrisa, where we've been introduced to technology in new ways and made experience of it both in education and in the workplace, that here we have to think differently. There I feel that we have a big common challenge, all of us, to take with us the experience we have now, and see how we can get rigged to a better decentralised and flexible education system for the future. I believe we have to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6138	I received a specific question from the representative of the Central Party, Mr. Greni, so I would like to answer that question. I am very pleased with the question, because it shows that socialist parties are also concerned that we should have businesses in this country, and that private sector jobs are an important part of the basis for funding the welfare services that our citizens around the municipalities receive. In this way, a differentiated employer’s fee is a very important measure. It's one of the most important district measures of the government, because we're totally dependent on the businesses around the districts, creating jobs, and making people have something to live on, and that it's possible to live a good life around in scattered areas. The system of differentiated employer fees is, as the Stortinget is also briefed on, which the government has attached a great deal of stress to. It is precisely ESA's guidelines that lead here, and this has meant that we have had to wait until these guidelines come into place, before we can notify the scheme and get the ESA system approved with an employer's fee that will apply from 2022. The guidelines adopted on 19 April meet the important Norwegian interests and pass on key elements of the regional aid map and the differentiated employer’s fee scheme. Norwegian authorities have been given the advantage that transport, energy and broadband sectors can be included in the operating aid scheme. I'm very happy about that. It has been important that we have received these sector exemptions. The audit shall be based on the development of the municipalities. In the Granavolden platform, the government has been very clear that we want to continue today's arrangement. The size also knows that the government has therefore been clear that we want to continue the differentiation of zones within merged municipalities and have asked for it separately. In addition to that, I cannot comment on the negotiations we now have, but we aim to ensure that this will be put in place as soon as possible during the autumn and before Christmas, so that a differentiated employer tax system can be implemented from 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6153	It is good to hear that an attempt is made to continue the system for merged municipalities, but what about neighbouring municipalities? What if we have a municipality where we have a city and a very pig-grown branch? Will there also be opportunities in other municipalities where there are very rural areas in a larger municipality, to have differentiated employer tax zones, so that they can try to get business into the branches? It is interesting for many municipalities whether there is something that the government considers. Finally, I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee for four very pleasant years and for a good debate. We're going to discuss some small things afterwards that I think it might be less discussion about, but I hope the district minister can answer this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6160	Now I am not going to make an unnecessary contribution to extending this debate. We see those municipalities in a context. So the answer to Mr. Grenis' question is that we base the regional aid map. We look at those municipalities that are struggling, where it is difficult to do business because of distance constraints and low population density. Of course, we cannot look at each municipality in isolation. We're looking at it from a larger perspective, because it's like municipalities belonging to parts of a region, which are the hardest hit. There are also municipalities that belong to centrality five and six.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6167	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6184	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6191	Digital Europe is an investment and cooperation programme for the period 2021–2027. It shall contribute to ensuring Europe’s competitive advantage and strategic autonomy before needs-driven digital transformation. There is a single committee that supports this setting. This content of the programme is linked to the development and maintenance of capacity within five bet areas. It's about heavy-duty, supercomputers. It is about artificial intelligence, cybersecurity and trust, advanced digital skills and roll-out and best use of digital capabilities and interoperability A central idea of the programme is that, under the auspices of the European Commission, EU countries will be able to join forces and channel investment, knowledge and efforts towards common solutions that can be exploited and further developed by a lack of enterprises and citizens across borders. The review of the Digital Europe Programme in the European Parliament highlighted the fact that this programme is considered to be the most important tool for raising Europe’s common digital sovereignty and for achieving the main priorities of insurance for a new generation of digital technologies. When the Decision enters into force, it will allow Norway and the EEA/EFTA States to participate in the Programme from the first call. Proposals are made for the Storting to give its consent before the final adoption of the Regulation and before a decision is taken by the EEA Committee. Since this proposal was made, the Programme for a Digital Europe has been examined and adopted by the European Parliament on 29 April 2021. This Regulation has also been formally adopted without amendment to the draft submitted and published on 11 May 2021 and will apply from 1 January 2021. The matter has also been brought before the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee for questioning, and they refer to Report. St. 5 for 2020-2021, Social security in an uncertain world, which is also about digital security. A Joint Committee agrees that Innst. 275 S for 2020-2021 well illustrates the position of the respective parties in relation to the importance of digital security and that these are relevant to the Norwegian participation in programmes such as DIGITAL.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6212	Digital development is changing society and the world. It's going fast, and a lot of it's good. But it's also so that this new technology can both create new power relationships and make the difference between those who master this, and those who don't, even bigger. As the rapporteur just said, there are people who even use such big words about this program as that it is about asserting sovereignty. These are very serious words. There is also a need to look at how we can assert our sovereignty in Norway — into these programmes and into this digital future — both for national reasons, but also for the different priorities we want to do within our own country. This is why it is important to go into this work, work in parallel with and strengthen the work of national responsibility in this area, so that you know exactly what is going on, and that you have control of the things that we as countries are going to control. We also have to have a consciousness about the changes in power relationships that can happen in these areas, because it's not, to say the least, those with little power in society that are developing these structures. It doesn't mean that they necessarily have evil in mind, but it could mean that they ignore other important concerns that we politicians are set to care for as we develop our society in the future. That is why the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV have a note about this in the setting, which I had hoped the government parties could join in, because I hope we agree on these things, for example. that it is important that we have control of these things seas, even at national level. I have also been concerned that we are going to be involved in a great European cooperation on this. We are for that, but it also binds up huge resources in the future in this field of research. We also need to make sure that we have some of our own national resources to go into research and development in these areas, so that we have the opportunity to do this on our own and in areas for which we have a special responsibility. So here it's important that the government is conscious of its responsibility and that this does not change power relationships, and that you take the necessary national considerations, which you have to ensure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6225	The Digital Europe Programme, DIGITAL, is the EU's new investment and capacity building programme for digital transformation and use of innovative digital technologies in society and in industry. By pooling resources, Europe can build the necessary capacities in areas such as artificial intelligence, supercomputers, cybersecurity and advanced digital skills, as explained by the rapporteur. Participation in the Programme will provide access to these resources to Norwegian enterprises and research and innovation environments. It will have a major impact on industrial development opportunities and the competitiveness of our businesses. Participation in DIGITAL will also be one of the main means of implementing the digital transition, through access to skills, project resources and exciting business and research partners across Europe. In the programme, the idea is not just to cooperate with others in the same industry, but to learn from each other and to develop new solutions across sectors and industries. One of the means of achieving such cooperation is the establishment of digital innovation hubs. Innovation Norway has received declarations of interest from eight strong digital environments across the country in order to be identified as such hubs. They are now in dialogue with these environments, and it will be very exciting to follow up on which of these will be able to participate in the EU's major efforts on such hubs across Europe. In Norway’s increasingly knowledge-based and data-driven economy, participation in DIGITAL will be essential to strengthen local and regional business and to contribute to strengthening competitiveness in all industries. It is not realistic for Norway to build corresponding capacities and competences on its own. We invest heavily in our digital future for our businesses and public enterprises in partnership with our closest trading partner, the EU. We're not doing this for the sake of digitization. We do this to create new opportunities and foundations for value creation and productivity growth in our management and business. By cooperating with the EU, we contribute to a digital future, built on common goals and common European values. Norway, for example, wants: promoting the ethical and responsible use of artificial intelligence, and these are values we share with other European countries. Participation in this programme will help to ensure the development and use of artificial intelligence with respect for individual rights and freedoms. DIGITAL is one of the EU’s most important tools for building Europe’s digital capacity and sovereignty in competition with countries such as the United States and China. We cannot isolate ourselves from digital development. We must participate and be involved in shaping digital developments, being concerned with privacy, security, ethics and democracy, and we are doing the best we can with other like-minded countries in EU cooperation. I am therefore very pleased that an overall committee recommends that the Stortinget consent to Norwegian participation in DIGITAL.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6246	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6263	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, we the President held the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6270	In line with negotiated agreements between the parties, the Government has submitted proposals for wage regulation to the employees of the State tariff area. The increase is now addressing the changes that need to be made to the State budget for 2021, and it is an overall committee that agrees to the introduction of wage regulation in line with the negotiated proposal. However, the comments express concern about the development of leadership wages and the red-green opposition has made several related proposals. I expect those parties themselves to present their proposals and positions. The Government Parties and the Advance Party share the concerns about rising wage differentials and increases in management salaries. We believe it is positive that the government has tightened up in terms of remuneration and right-wing positions, and support the clear signals given by the government that state leaders should not receive a sustained increase in pay than workers. In the right, it is important to follow developments closely and continuously assess whether there is a need for new measures to ensure that management salaries also adhere to the FMC. Leader pay must be competitive. The state must also be able to secure the best people. At the same time, there must be moderation and the state must not be a pay manager. In order to address this, the government has set up a wide-ranging sample to assess all aspects of the management pay system in the country. The committee is expected to deliver its report in 2022. Right looks forward to it and will come back to these questions in that context. Another question that has been raised by the red-green parties is the fact that the state has entered into two collective agreements, which of course is full access to. The right considers this to be a natural consequence of the freedom of agreement of the parties and the freedom of negotiation of individual organisations. In our view, requiring the country to conclude similar agreements — or one agreement — would be to intervene in this. It is difficult to understand that the question of whether one or two agreements are to be negotiated has an impact on strike as an instrument of the main course of tariffs, as the Red-Greens claim. This has been a recurring question, and there is probably also an opportunity to get back to it at later intersections. Today, the necessary decisions are to be taken to ensure the implementation of the year’s settlement – and that is the full agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6287	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a good review of the Committee's work on this matter. I'm going to focus on what's going on in terms of leadership wages, and what we have of both comments and suggestions from the opposition. For the Workers' Party, it is important to have a society based on trust, where everyone feels a responsibility to contribute to the community. A prerequisite is that everyone feels like part of this community. Then the differences can't be too big. Then ordinary people can't sit with the feeling that an elite is running away, while you're standing still. This is important in normal times, but it is even more important in times of crisis. Secondly, the crisis also provides an additional reminder of how dependent we are on each other's work, of everyone's work, and not least of the work of many of those who do not belong to the payroll of society, many of those who serve least in society. We have had bus drivers who have been on strike, pediatric assistants who take care of our kids – many of the professionals have lost purchasing power in recent years. Life has become more expensive, but wages have not followed that trend. Our pensioners have also lost purchasing power. If we look at the present, we also know that nurses and teachers have recently struck. We're all grateful for the job they're doing, and especially have done in a difficult time through this pandemic. At the same time, in the state companies and in the state, we have had a crazy leadership pay gap, with continually new directors and top managers with millions of wages, often people who have had safe jobs and secure home office jobs in those times. In the Workers' Party, we have spent time and use the opportunity to present our proposal, which is to set down a leadership pay commission for government directors' salaries, executives' salaries in state-owned companies and companies where the state is a majority shareholder, and the pay of politicians. Yes, it needs to be cleaned up, and we also support proposals on the freezing of salaries of high-wage government leaders, and it should also be the freezing of the salaries of government members and gross domestic product representatives. The state has to go ahead as a good example, and often it is in the economic elite that everyone points to each other and talks about being pay-paying. We must not sit and look at the developments we have had, such as: for the Coop Directors. While shop clerks have received peanuts, it can be seen that Coop directors have received millions in both wages and pensions. Then the state must show way. Then you have to show the political will to clean up. In this I address the proposals we have made together with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6302	The representative Masud Gharahkhani has drawn up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6307	It's been a long day, so I'm not going to repeat the previous speech. We have common comments in the setting, so I agree with what he has said. But the Center Party has a slightly different proposal. We have the proposal: «The government is asking the government to set up a management wage commission for government directors' salaries and senior employees' salaries in state-owned companies. The Commission shall review the State leadership salaries and bonus schemes in the context and analyse why wage developments at the top level have continued, despite, inter alia, guidelines adopted previously. Furthermore, the Commission shall make a thorough assessment of the real social considerations in the determination of wages and salaries and what cannot be justified by this. The Commission shall have strong representation from the parties.’;» What distinguishes our proposals is that we perceive that the issue of political wages is settled in the matter that was adopted here in the Stortingen not long ago, where the Stortinge gave the presidency the power to develop guidelines for the activities of the payroll commission. It is in line with the assumptions I think it was an almost unanimous committee that was behind in the vote. That is why we believe that this issue has been clarified, and we are therefore promoting another proposal in which politicians' wages are no longer part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6319	The representative Heidi Greni has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6324	I'm just taking a brief post to clarify what we mean by strikeright. It is such that local wage negotiations in the country do not strike. So when you create solutions that will allow the whole pot to be negotiated locally, you remove the striker's rights attached to these negotiations. That's what's the whole point, and that's why we're against it. That's how the negotiation system is, so that's a very factual and real reason why we write it in the setting, and that we have this view of why we're against this change that's made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6329	I am very pleased that we have reached an agreement in this year's interim settlement in the state, in line with the front subject's framework of 2.7 pst. The frontal model is important, especially when we are now on our way out of the greatest crisis since World War II. The frontal model helps to ensure our competitiveness and provides us with a good basis for ensuring high employment and low unemployment in the future. It is an overall policy objective to give more responsibility and increased local space for action to businesses. Decisions become best known when taken by those who know the local conditions. Local partners are best placed to handle, for example: equal pay. Last year's figures show a more positive wage trend in the relationship between women and men in the agreement with the academics than in the other agreement. In the agreement with the academics, the entire available framework is transferred to local negotiations. I have noted the proposals made by the members of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left on, among others. to promote a separate case for the Storting on new guidelines for government management salaries and to set up a management pay commission. Already in our government set up a wide-ranging selection to look at all aspects of the management pay system in the state tariff area. The selection shall include, inter alia: assess the conditions at the heart of the head recruitment of the State and how these contribute to determining the salary level and subsequent wage developments of the individual manager. The parent group in the country is the sample reference group. The increase in the number of managers shall be kept within the scope of the front and be consistent over time with other social wage developments. The fourth year's wage growth for the top managers in the country as a whole was 0.9 pst. This is well below the general wage growth in society. You could get a different impression when you heard some of the representatives in the pulpit earlier. I also set an absolute thank-you corresponding to the front-line framework for each department sector in 2021, as I did last year. I also notice that the members of the Workers' Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left will see the next main settlement in 2022 result in one main tariff agreement. To that end, freedom of organisation and negotiation is an important principle of employment in Norway. Employees are free to organise themselves in different associations, which remain free to negotiate agreements on behalf of their members. There is a long tradition of respecting the fact that wage negotiations are the responsibility of the parties in each settlement. Untying the outcome of future wage negotiations would be contrary to contractual freedom. Otherwise, I am glad that a joint committee supports the proposal presented by the government and the parties have concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6344	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6349	It is free of contract, but the employer is also a party, and you can be, and I actually have experience with it, because I conducted the wage negotiations when I was in the county municipality, with over 6,000 employees. We actually got the equality price, and we did that because as an employer, we set ourselves a goal of achieving equal pay and raising the groups we were looking for. Now the Council of State says that it is good with the more local wage negotiations, because then you get equal pay. What is the reason why the State has not had this objective in its employer policy once they have carried out the negotiations and achieved an equivalent result?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6355	As I said last year, the figures show a more positive wage trend in the relationship between women and men in the agreement with the academics than in the other agreement, and in the agreement with the academics the entire available framework is transferred to local negotiations. It is precisely because we believe from the state that good solutions are being found locally on precisely this type of issue, that we want the best possible use of the framework to go to local negotiations. It's been the country's starting point, and it's still going to be the country's starting point. So the question is, should the state think that this should all be part of one agreement? Well, if you want to make different agreements locally in the state, I think it's going to be wrong for the state to stand in the way of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6360	In this context, the Council of State is the state, and it may also be other councils that may have different views and other opinions about it. The Council of State was also concerned when he said that this is where management wages have been taken into account, and that is what we hope, because there have been quite huge increases there for a long time. But then the state council uses percentages as a yardstick on this. What we know is that if you count percentages of the government's salary or of some of these executive salaries, and you take percent of the salary of the ordinary employees in the state, or else, or someone who earns poorly, you might say that they've got the same percentage increase, but in dollars and cents, there are thousands, maybe 20,000 dollars, in difference. If you keep counting in percent, doesn't the Council see that even if the percentage is equal, the differences will increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6365	As I said, the government leaders were well below what was the front course last year. The framework was 1,7 and government leaders ended up at 0,9 within the State tariff area. I think that's an expression of moderation, and I'm in favour of government leaders doing that. We're going to be competitive, but not pay leaders in the state. It is important that we have a pay policy that enables us to get the best heads of the tasks to be solved, even in competition with private businesses. At the same time, we must ensure that government leaders are not wage leaders. Now we have set up a management pay committee to assess exactly how the management pay system should be in the future and whether adjustments are needed. It will give useful input to our further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6370	The council did not answer my question. I ask if the Council of State believes that this percentage is a good principle when looking at such increases and looking at differences. Because it's proven that there's going to be huge differences in purchasing power, to deal with your everyday life, if you get 1 pst. or 2 pst. increase. Whether it's on a salary of $550,000, or it's on a salary of 1.5 million. kr – or 2 or 3 mill. kr, it's a sea of difference. Does the Council of State mean that this percentage comparison is continuing when we're actually going to be able to slow down the trend in leadership pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6375	I am concerned that the front-line model uses a percentage that the other social partners should adhere to in order to ensure the competitiveness of the Norwegian economy. It's also the case that we have a tax system that has to be redistributive. The ten percent pay 40 pst. of the total tax intake in Norway and has a significantly higher effective tax rate than those with the lowest income. So here it's not only wage developments, but also the tax system that needs to be integrated into a larger whole to help us maintain a society of small differences, as we all agree that we want and are important for a positive development in Norway in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-15.ana.ud209e6380	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox So the map is ready for today. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
