ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e28	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of Åshild Bruun-Gundersen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e35	On behalf of Tuva Moflag, Nicholas Wilkinson and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for a representative to ensure that women in like-minded couples can have a real opportunity to choose for themselves which of the women in the couple are going to be pregnant with the children of the couple. Given that this is a legal interpretation going on in the department, I would like to ask for a quick examination in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e40	The representative of Espen Barth Eide will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e45	On behalf of the representatives of Else-May Botten Norderhus, Åsmund Aukrust, Ruth Grung, Runar Seestad and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on a strategy for the forthcoming implementation of the UN Natural Agreement and a cross-sectoral action plan to achieve the objectives of the Nature Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e50	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e55	On behalf of the major representatives of Lars Haltbrecken, Arne Nävra, Eirik Faret Sakariassen and myself, I would like to propose amendments to the Planning and Building Act on increased responsibility for supervising the implementation of development and construction projects in accordance with the given permits and regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e60	The representative, Mr Sylvi Listhaug, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e65	On behalf of the big business representatives Hans Andreas Limi, Morten Ørsal Johansen, Sivert Bjørnstad, Bengt Rune Strifeldt and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a plan with measures to reopen society and restore Norwegian business after the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e71	The representative, Arne Nävra, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e76	On behalf of the representative Lars Haltbrecken and myself, I would like to make a proposal that zero-emission goods cars still have to be discounted in the toll stations around Trondheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e81	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e86	I am also delighted to contribute to the fact that Stortinget has some business to do, and am delighted to present a proposal by the depositors Tor André Johnsen, Sylvi Listhaug and myself on medically justified exemptions for the feeble, and a proposal by the depositors Tor André Johnsen, Åshild Bruun-Gundersen, Roy Steffensen on cost-effective road investments – and myself. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e91	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e107	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e116	Yesterday, national closure measures were adopted in Norway. The reopening, which was to be announced at the end of March, is postponed until April, and that is understandable. The R's too high, there's going to be local outbreaks, and we still have a piece to go to fight the infection. The situation is very serious for many people, for business, for businesses that go beyond the end, and not least for those who get out of work, who lose their jobs, and for those who have to sit in for another week and another month, with the psychological consequences of it. A lot of people are tired now. That is why we need to step up efforts to control the infection, and it is natural to ask the Prime Minister questions about it. Four main groups of questions need to be clarified. It is linked to vaccines, border control, our testing and analysis capacities and intensive hospital capacity. Importitis first: the government has said that we are the most stringent in Europe, and questions from the opposition about mandatory testing and control are almost rejected as relevant. Then we get stories from the Gardermo – the main airport – where people come home. Many don't test themselves, and many take a quick one and move on before they get the result. We found the story of the person who came to the municipality of Vestby with the Brazilian virus, but was not held back at the airport. We heard Amalie Aune say to TV 2 that when she landed, there were only five who took the test, everyone else went through the tax-free and out into society. The NRK revealed that in the first week of March, there were four out of ten who did not take the test, and many of those who took the test and were to take the test number. 2, didn't. The question to the Prime Minister is: Do we have control? Is she satisfied with the way the border test is conducted?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e127	Let me start by saying that the situation we are in now is a situation that is both demanding and difficult, and I agree with the representative that it is important that we now have control over all the different parts of this. Now there were initially four topics that were raised, but I understood that the question was primarily about border control. I would like to comment on all the others as well, but I am sure I will have that in future questions in the Questionnaire. Today we have a control regime that is good, but of course not perfect. It's a demanding control regime. We have Europe's longest border, Sweden. That's why we've limited the number of places you can cross the limit. We've set up systems for that, and we're working hard to get it done. When we get reports of any holes, we also follow that. But it's made a very clear system to be followed when you get there, you have to go to the test, and you have to wait until you get the results. We're now working on a basis to oblige people to wait, possibly hold people back, even with power, so that they don't move until the test results come. We have now imposed that those who have been on what we would call unnecessary travel, that is, leisure trips, have to get quarantined. For the first time, quarantine hotels – all should be quarantined, but they must be quarantined at quarantine hotels – initially for three days. From this weekend on, you have to be seven days before you can test out. That's because we're learning on the way. One of the things we've learned is that once we've put together the MSIS system, i.e. the infection registry and testing system and the arrival regime, we see some signals that indicate that we need to be more stringent with the quarantine implementation in private homes. Then it's best to say that people have to be at the hotel.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e136	I agree that we must learn as we go, but what is strange about the government here is that it has been pointed out from early in the harvest that this capacity is not good enough, not systematic enough, not consistent enough. The result of this was full shutdown, which affects parts of our business very brutally. After all, companies have proper control over their own management of people coming to Norway, with quarantine, with testing, and have good control, but they are now struck by the fact that the closure is quite complete. I find it strange that the Prime Minister here has to say that they still have systems to assess that control will apply at airports. It's a fairly regular business that happens at our airports. People come, they land, they go ashore, and they go through society. So my question is, when could the Prime Minister say that now we have a system in place that we are satisfied with and that can work for a country with long, open borders? We had 12 March last year, we have it this year, and we're going to have it next year. So when is she on track that we have enough control?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e143	If I heard that the representative said ‘a system that can work with open borders’, it would be based on the disease situation in the country. We have followed the technical advice we have, which the representative is aware of, and which the majority of people have also agreed with us, the clear technical advice, until the Rome Christmas, which was that the test capacity should be inserted where it was most needed. The testing capacity was most dependent on the follow-up of the TISK work by the municipalities, and the mandatory testing was not perceived as targeted and well enough before the mutated virus was circulated. When the mutated virus was circulating, we received a new professional advice. Therefore, we established testing at border stations. We established an entry register. We have now got the digital connection between the entry register and the test system. We have made a large device to call anyone who comes across the border, to follow up, to give notice, to inform and to make sure that they have received all the information.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e150	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e155	Let's pursue this with test capacity within the country, within the border. It's absolutely vital if we're going to get control of the infection, that we're going to test significantly more, much, many places, so that we can succeed in opening up. What we are now reading is that Denmark, which is presenting its reopening plan, tests as many in one day as Norway is doing in a whole week. Is the Prime Minister satisfied with the capacity we now have for testing? Oslo has wanted to go ahead. They say they have too many defects in the laboratories to be able to carry out as many tests to be done, there are limitations on the personnel who can help carry out the tests. Should it be a health care professional, could there be others who do that, and can we get a mass test? It seems to me that we are looking for laboratory capacity, and that we are looking for the capacity of those who are going to carry out the tests. Is the Prime Minister today, on 24 March, satisfied with the test capacity in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e162	We have a test capacity according to the targets we've set for what we're going to have, so if we're going to go to large mass tests, we're going to have to increase that bit. But the important thing is to be able to increase self-test, and that's one of the challenges we're dealing with now, for example. the test carried out in Bergen, where a test is carried out in schools with a separate self-test scheme. Can we use saliva samples and results? Is it the fastest that produces results there and then? We've bought many of these quickest ones. As far as I know, we have four million shortcuts that can be used, and then we can increase it. So it's done on the spot, based on what's the most important result of this. Some countries thought early in the pandemic that they could test themselves out of the pandemic. It wasn't a good example, it wasn't possible to do. Some of those countries have had the largest outbreaks of infection afterwards. So there's a mix between testing and checking, and not least the big TISK work, making sure that we follow all the advice and rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e169	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e174	So the Prime Minister is satisfied with the capacity as of today, we have to understand this. We can't test ourselves out of the pandemic, but we can probably immunize ourselves. That's the way out. The Labour Party supports Norway’s purchase of vaccines with European countries. We think that's what secured us more vaccines and not just one. That was the right strategy. But then the question is, is that enough? The current conflicts in Europe between countries are a cause for concern. New vaccines may be withheld. We have to look for alternatives. In Germany, there is a discussion — Germany is known as an EU country — about the possibility of buying, for example, the Russian vaccine, if authorised. Chancellor Merkel has said that she prefers a common European order, but she says, unless we make a separate German order. And then she says, well, we can do that, and we're prepared to do that. In a conversation between Merkel and Putin early January, they agreed that health ministers would follow this up. My question to the Prime Minister is: Has she taken any initiative with Russia on this vaccine, if it comes, to ensure that Norway can supplement the agreements we already have?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e184	We have not made direct contact with Russia about this. We agree with the Germans that the best thing is that we have a common procurement. What the Russians have suggested is that at the end of the second quarter of this year, the Russian vaccine could be available to other countries. It's at a time when we want a large supply of vaccines with the systems we have as of today if all of the vaccines we have are approved. In the short term, there is therefore no possibility of further vaccination with the Russian vaccine. It is also not approved in Europe. And it is important to stress that we have now vaccinated more than the Russians have, in our population. But we're open to buying Russian vaccines if they're approved, if we trust them, and if we see that we can make a joint purchase of them. But I don't want to buy vaccines until they're approved.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e189	Ingvild Kjerkol – for the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e194	In times of crisis, we prepare for each other. Our health workers in the front line have been on mail for a long time now. From my local hospital in Levanger, intensive staff travel to Drammen and Bærum to help their hard-pressed colleagues in the East. The intensive capacity is still an Achilles heel in this pandemic. The number of intensive sites is exactly the same as last year, 289 places. In fact, the trade unions say that we're worse off now than we were last year. Building up this capacity takes of course time. Solberg recently told the NRK that the intensive capacity is not her main concern. My question to the Prime Minister is whether she believes the government has done enough to increase the intensive capacity of the year that has now passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e201	The representative uses a common Workers' Party tactic: to take an opinion in one context and insert it in another context. My biggest challenge is whether the TISK work in the municipalities is collapsing. Of course, I have concerns about the intensive challenge, but the first thing we see that can crack if we have too much infection is the TISK work in the municipalities, and that is in the context that the sentence the representative takes out of its context is said. I really think that in Norwegian policy we should stop putting things into contexts other than those in which they were told. Then I will repeat what I have said before about intensive capacity. We have an increased intensive capacity — not in regular, regular places, but in the form of training and training for more staff, that more equipment is in place, that we have more respiratory capacity for Norway. So it's a better situation than we were last year. We have 3,000 nurses who are now authorized or have gone through courses to help under the direction of an intensive nurse. That's what we can work on in the short term, and it's also in line with the big message that was presented by the red-green government to build a capacity plan that you can build up when you need it, but not regularly increase it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e208	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e213	Not to take a quote out of context, but both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Health have expressed in full, whole sentences, that you are at risk of refurbishment with intensities that you do not need in a normal situation. The working party disagrees with that, and the trade unions also disagree with that. Regional intensive research from 2019 says that in a normal situation, the need will increase by 25-30 pst. until 2040. The professionals react to the Prime Minister not seeing their full description of reality. We need to increase intensive capacity both in everyday life and – not least – in a crisis. By comparison, we buy a good snow plough when it snows, even though it snows very few days a year in some places. My question to the Prime Minister is: why have we not done more to expand the long-term intensive capacity, with so much professional advice?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e220	With regard to the permanent structure of the healthcare system, I have said that we need to have a discussion about what the main priority is, what are the most important issues. So it's like the government has already taken action to get more places within the intensive capacity. Health enterprises are instructed on several continuing training positions for intensive caregivers in the future. We'll get that in a couple of years. But they already got it. So we're going to build intensive capacity in Norway. We had also ordered more respirator capacity before the pandemic came, and that's what we now have, making respirators available – because we were working on building better preparedness in the intensive field. But we also have to have a discussion where we see the context of our health care system. That is why I have said that it belongs to a debate in which we discuss what the priorities are and where our main challenges are. We have said that yes, we need to increase the intensive capacity of the government, but at the same time, there are other challenges in the healthcare sector that we also need to have capacity for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e229	Sivert Bjørnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e234	On the way to the opening of society, we had a setback yesterday. Many nutritionists had rejoiced and prepared themselves as best they could on a Easter with guests within a strict infectious regime. Too many people that dream was shattered yesterday. Many have waited as long as possible to order goods – whether food, drink, entertainment or other purchases – just in fear of this happening. But once you have to order if you're going to have a chance to get it on time, and too many actors meant it late last week. Last night we could read on social media that small Væktarstua hotels in Tidal municipality in Trøndelag got pallets with goods for hundreds of thousands of dollars delivered after an order they made on Sunday. They're in a totally desperate situation and fear they won't survive this. Does the Prime Minister share that despair, and can she guarantee that all the costs that these actors have incurred recently are fully covered by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e243	I understand the despair. This is one of the dilemmas we've faced. We could have given more predictability, but then we had to have stricter conditions across the country. That statement I made 14 days ago was a statement that said we could get into this situation, but we hoped that it would stick with local measures or national regional measures. What we've been looking at after this is that there's been more than one infection. Rogaland has a significant infection, Ålesund has got it — and more elsewhere. In the Nordic countries, there has been an increasing rate of infection and action. We also look forward to having more stringent measures when we have the Passover ahead of us. Then I agree that it is important that we compensate. That is why we also said yesterday that we want to increase the pot that Stortinget has contributed to proposing and granting. We proposed a smaller amount, the Storting has increased it. We will propose to increase more in that scheme in the future. We have 750 million. kr which has not yet been distributed and which will go to the municipalities. It's more focused, because they can see which businesses need it the most. And then we've said 500 million. kr at the top of it. We're prepared to help. If we can target everyone, I can't guarantee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e250	Sivert Bjørnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e256	500 million. hardly helps a nation that is effectively shut down. Nor does it help to make a promise that this money will come in the middle or at the end of June. Too many actors have ended long before that time. It's not just the little ones who're struggling, it's also the big players. Many large hotels throw out the guests after checking out Thursday's first, with two days' notice. This means that these hotels have made purchases for an almost normal situation. For many weeks you have had guests booked for the Easter feast. We believe that regulatory arrangements are the best, and that these are the rules that are wrong. The government points to the municipalities. I believe it is a discharge to push this over to the municipalities. It's the state that's shutting down, not the municipalities. Why does the state not take greater responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e263	The state takes a big responsibility. The compensation schemes that are at the bottom are there to help when you have a major income deficit, and will be able to do so for fixed expenditure. The representative also knows that the government is now working on the follow-up to the decision in Stortingen that it should also be possible to bring in warehouses – to the question related to it. I'll get back to it before the next round of compensation. There has been technical demarcation, ESA issues, related to it. But we'll get back to that question. What we're experiencing is that there's a diversity in inequality, in the type of businesses and the challenges they have. Then we believe that the regulatory arrangements need to be supplemented by something more flexible, which can be targeted at those who actually experience very special problems. We see that people fall outside it. That is why we have said that the municipal system is best, because there are some municipalities that are going to experience very much the effect of this – especially the winter tourist communities. That's why we have 750 million. kr not allocated and to be broken down according to the maximum load. In addition, in our proposal, we have said that we should increase that order by 0.5 billion. kr. So we from society at the bottom have taken a big responsibility for everything. The alternative, not shut down, would probably mean even greater costs for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e270	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e275	These are difficult issues, but a thought experiment would have been interesting anyway. If it had been so that it was North Norway and Trøndelag which were the largest infected areas, had one then, at three days' notice, shut down Oslo and the mountain areas of Oslo before Easter? At least it's an interesting thought experiment. But I'll talk a little bit more about vaccines, because that's what's the way out. But it's late, and it's not right that individual countries that order vaccines have ordered only one vaccine. The United Kingdom has ordered vaccines from seven suppliers — up to ten times its own population. On Saturday they set 870,000 single doses – in one day. We've been doing 760,000 doses since Christmas. The government didn't give a clear answer to Gahr Støre's question about the Sputnik vaccine. In the past, Höie said that buying Sputnik vaccine first and foremost appears to be a theoretical possibility. I feel that there is a movement from the Prime Minister here today. If approved, would Norway take any initiative — not joint but own initiative — to purchase that type of vaccine from Russia?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e284	What we know so far about the Sputnik vaccine is that they do not have anything available for sale until June. That's what we know so far, and it requires building up capacity in vaccine production outside Russia to do so. It is at a time when our estimate is still that Norway has quite a high level of vaccine coverage. But that means we're open to look at it when it's been approved. We'd rather go together with the European Union around it, but I understand this desire, because we all have that in our heart – that we should now have the vaccine, finished it and be able to live a normal life. But it's not like every single media lookup or output means there's any vaccines available right now. There are no vaccines available from Israel. There are currently no vaccines available from Russia. We are very concerned – and I think that is important in view of the AstraZeneca vaccine now – that we follow good professional judgements related to the effectiveness and testing of these. I think that's got a lot to say also for the post-history of how we handled this crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e289	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e294	The corona pandemic has shown us that the intensive capacity in Norway is too small. Eleven intensive patients at Aarhus are enough to create a crisis. Severely ill intensive patients on the respirator are transported in ambulances between hospitals in Health South-East to find free intensive beds. We have to learn from this. Intensive treatment came in autumn 2019. It contained both the status of intensive capacity and suggestions for increase and organisation. It recommended an increase in intensive capacity of between 30 and 40 pst. towards 2040. The government has not followed up, but they have asked healthcare professionals to do so, even though it has recently been distributed. The question to the Prime Minister is whether she can today give a clear message that the government will start work to increase the ordinary intensive capacity in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e303	The government has launched efforts to increase normal intensive capacity in Norway. It has been written on behalf of health businesses. The greatest lack of intensive capacity is competence; it is human. This is why it has been said that there should be several recruitment positions related to the training of particularly intensive nurses, which are a defect related to this. We also ordered more respiratory equipment, as I said, both before and during the pandemic, which makes it more accessible. So now this investigation came in autumn 2019, and the pandemic started in February 2020 in Norway. We've been working in parallel with both things, but what we've been doing most of the last year is dealing with the pandemic. This means that the main focus has been on how to temporarily raise intensive capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e310	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e315	Excuse me, Prime Minister, but this is going to be wrong. We have long seen the need for increased intensive capacity in Norway. It showed the evaluation report following the swine flu in 2009. This was demonstrated by DSB’s report on the crisis scenario in 2019. This showed the National Audit Office’s report on health care professionals’ recruitment challenges, presented in 2019. It showed that health professionals in 2016, 2017 and 2018 warned the department and government about major recruitment failures, and they asked for an increase in the educational capacity of intensive nurses, but the government said no all the years. The number of candidates for special doctors has not been increased since 2014, so the 100 new posts are too late, and it is too little. Does the Prime Minister himself criticise that no more has been done before, and will he now come up with a plan for the Storting to reverse and strengthen this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e322	Firstly, the representative began by referring to a report from 2019 that is a follow-up to the work. So a report has been prepared to start work on increasing intensive capacity. So it's true that the evaluation of swine flu showed that more capacity was needed, but it pointed out at the time that you had to do it with flexibility. You can never meet pandemics with as much capacity as you want, you have to make flexible mechanisms for it, and that's what we've done in this year to get it done. In the 2021 mission paper, health regions are asked both to train more intensive nurses, to set up at least 100 new training positions in intensive care, to work for more recruitment, development and to keep intensive nurses in hospitals in the short, medium and long term. In addition, consideration should be given to the future and overall need for intensive capacity in hospitals, i.e. to the need to change it. So it's the way to start the construction while you're working on what the need is. You don't start again where the report was earlier, but you move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e332	Per Espen Stoknes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e337	The corona pandemic has also hit public transport hard, so it is essential to get out of the crisis in a green and smart way. In Oslo, Ruter is responsible for the collective offer to nearly two million people, but the company now warns that they need to cut the route offer sharply in the second half of 2021 to cover a loss of income of nearly one billion. kr. In fact, collective societies throughout the country are in the same serious situation. It is therefore absolutely necessary to put in place a state transitional mechanism to ensure compensation, so that we do not cut the route offer vigorously just when the pandemic begins to run out. So my question is, does the government guarantee that they will put the money that is needed, on the table of the states in order to avoid cuts in the collective offer on the way out of the pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e344	When we presented the state budget for 2021, we were clear that the state budget also had to be handled flexibly in the future, depending on how long the pandemic lasts, in order to maintain important services, among other things. public transport. That's why it's compensated for the first six months of this year; there's added more money to the work related to it, both to Avinor and to all the parts of our infrastructure that now need money. But we also said that we need to come back to the revised national budget to look at the long-term effects. Thus, a number of corona-related budget lines have to be assessed up to the revised national budget. We also want to do that for public transport. So that's in line with what we put in the budget. In some areas it was not possible to estimate the full-year impact of the pandemic when we presented the budget, so we will return to this in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e351	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e356	The case of Torger Sétre, which has been mentioned in the Sunnmørspost and on TV 2, has upset many people. This is a young man of 28 years of age, at his best age. He suffers from an eye disease that has made him blind on the right eye, and he looks worse and worse with the left. Without treatment, Torger becomes blind. The treatment is available, but according to the Norwegian health system, it is too expensive. Had Torger lived in Denmark, however, he had received help. That's where they can afford it. It's simply shameful. About four million. It costs to save the sight of Torger and give him the opportunity to live a normal life, work and stand on. Even he says, "What will it cost if I go here blind and lazy? If you use common sense, it becomes quite a significant amount each year.’ Torger's brother Joar has the same disease, and he'll need treatment on both eyes, which costs $8 million. kr. The eye department at Oslo University Hospital is ready to treat and wait for only green light. Ragnheidur Bragadottir, who works there, says: «We see incredibly good results. This operation may give these people the opportunity to live a life of their own." Norway used three years to say no to treatment. Torger is running out of time. The last hope is the collection action on Spleis, which has now collected more than 3.5 million. kr. Then he can travel to Europe and get this help. At the same time, we see Norway spending money on a lot of other things — assistance of almost 40 billion. kr, and we now have a cultural arrangement in which the profits of the times are distributed to festival organizers who have not carried out a single festival. Does the Prime Minister agree that it is directly petty and unacceptable that the health services in Norway let people become blind rather than give treatment, because it is too expensive?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e375	We have chosen a priority model by a very broad majority in the European Parliament, where we have established priority principles in the area of health and where we have created a joint decision-making forum for the treatment of diseases. It's bad every time it turns out no to someone. It's bad every time we see individual ships that don't get it. But we've created some principles, we've created some systems, and we've asked someone to manage it. We can choose to take it away and just manage it in the healthcare system according to what the media storage is, or who we as politicians think it's right to do our own medical assessments for, and change those priorities. The starting point is that we have chosen a system, and they have provided an answer in this case. For our part, on the part of the government, we insist that the system adopted by the Stortinget should also be followed in these matters. So that doesn't mean that we don't experience that this is a difficult thing, that there are many things, and it might well be that we're going to see if any of the principles should have been followed in a better way. But every group that comes up with this kind of thing, we can't satisfy it by going around the principles we've set, because then we end up not having the system that's actually established. I have a great deal of understanding of it, and I hope you can look at it, look at the possibilities, but this is a medical assessment, and that is a priority question. As long as I don't see that there's a breach of the priority guidelines that the Storting has actually adopted, I find it difficult to go in and say that now we're going to try it out, now we're going to do something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e384	I think it's too bad for little Ulrik Fure in almost five years. He's got the same disease. The family was shocked when he got the diagnosis one and a half years old. The hope for the mother and father of Ulrik is that he will learn to read and write as other children, live with the vision he has today, yes, simply live a good life. In order to do so, Ulrik must receive this treatment when he is ten to twelve years old. He needs treatment on both eyes, and it'll cost $8 million. kr. So the family's mentally prepared for how to scrape together $8 million. kr to save the sight of his child. Mama Isabell says, "I think it's awful. Shall we sell everything we have of the house and the cabin, and sit on the bar hill? [[...]] In addition to Torger, Joar and Ulrik, there are five others with the same disease. So we're talking about eight people. Will the Prime Minister take the initiative to ensure that these eight people can be treated and avoid losing sight, which is being released in many other European countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e391	Taking action in decision-making forums if you don't think they've broken the priority guidelines, I don't think I'm right and not in line with what the Biggest has done. We've put someone in front of us to make difficult and heavy priorities, and then I think we also have to support that we don't always review the priorities that are actually done. We can have a lot of discussions about this, and we're all going to get hurt in the stomach of this. I don't have a medical basis to say whether it's a way to save your vision or not. I can't oversee the medical professional questions. I've been studying social economy, not medicine. I can have great empathy for the family and what's difficult, but we've made a system, we've made guidelines for priorities, and if we constantly skip them, we have to start dealing with all the single things in the Storting. I understand that this is bad, and that people are asking for help from politicians, but I feel that the Stortinget has been clear that we are going to have a priority system.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e398	When you see that this system doesn't work, you actually have to do something about it. What is worrying is that differences between health professionals are increasing in Norway — not just collection actions, but we also see that it is the wallet that now governs more and more the treatment of some diseases. In the case of MS, we see that many people have collection actions or pay about half a million dollars to travel to Mexico, Israel or Russia for stem cell therapy. In the case of cancer, new drugs and treatment methods come all the time, where they can travel with money and buy services and medicines in the home and abroad, while those who do not have much resources need to resort to collection actions and media attention in order to receive treatment. They take up large loans, and they do what they can. This trend in Norway is dangerous. Does the Prime Minister agree that ordinary people do not have access to new drugs and the latest treatment without collection actions and that differences between people are increasing in health?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e407	We are concerned that we in Norway should accept and use new methods. That is why we have increased the budgets in the area of using new methods. And that's why we've also increased the MS bit, where we develop tissues in Bergen and take in more patients related to MS and treatment related to that particular example. But we're back to these priority mechanisms. It is still the case in Norway that the MS treatment is considered to be a tried-and-tested new method treatment carried out in a project and implemented, and a large number of patients benefit from this treatment in Norway, but not all. So it's right that health inequalities are increasing in Norway. The differences that have increased most are between those who have drugs and mental problems, and those of us who have somatic diseases and not the same type of challenges. Fortunately, this government has done a lot to close the gap with the efforts we have both on mental health and not least on care.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e414	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e420	But we see that it's increasing in other areas. Another situation that we are in is that in Norway we are 100 percent dependent on other countries to obtain medicines. The red-green government, with Health Minister Jonas Gahr Støre at the head, chose to shut down vaccine production in 2011. Well, I guess it turns out it wasn't that smart. In May last year, the majority decided that we need to put in place a preparedness model for Norwegian production of important medicinal products. It's so far not followed up. The actors are ready to contribute. We have Curida in Elverum who's been trying to take initiative with the government, but they're not going anywhere. There is a constant reference to new investigations, but now is the time to act. Vaccine production is reported by stakeholders in both Sandefjord and Ullensaker, but they are waiting for the state to get on the road. Will the Prime Minister take action to ensure medical preparedness and vaccine production in Norway for the future, and so that we are better equipped to deal with future pandemics?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e429	As the representative is probably aware, the government started work already in 2018 on improved medical preparedness and assessment of production and input factors in Norway. That report was delivered by the Health Directorate in March last year, if I do not remember errors. At the same time, we've built up the stockpiles of drugs, along with the wholesale stockpiles of drugs, to make sure that we can meet the growing shortage of drugs in general, as we've seen on the world market. So it's important that we do it in a collaboration of that kind, because then we're constantly getting medicines that don't go out to date, and we're constantly getting consumption and rolling of the stocks. Then we're working on building up more. That's why we're also working on building up more now, we have money inside the budgets now for this, and we're building up more stocks. We're also working on what we can have of the kind of warehouses and collaboration with different companies. I can't answer the vaccine production right now, but I might get a new question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e438	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e443	Preparedness building will be a central issue, both below and after this pandemic. It has put a spotlight on our own preparedness and the lack of preparedness, and we have heard a little earlier an exchange of views about exactly what is going on intensive preparedness, which many of us think there have been very big problems. However, we have also lacked a lot of infection protection equipment, and in the case of infection protection equipment, fortunately many private companies in Norway have thrown around and started the production of infectious coats, of oral bandages, of facial visors, to mention something. So it's private companies that have helped us in a difficult time, but now it's getting full stop. Now they don't seem to be needed by Norwegian authorities anymore, and it doesn't make sense if the government doesn't want to build on these initiatives. In fact, they could have formed the core wall of building a better national preparedness for infectious disease protection equipment. As the leader of the RKGrafis, the producers of facial visors, it says, business is in a crisis situation, but when the crisis is over, there is no need for us. It's hard to understand. Last spring the prime minister was present and cut string when the mouthband producer Innovern in Sykkylven was opened. Head of Board Leif Jarle Aure says that he believes Norway needs to define the industry producing the infectious diseases industry, as an emergency industry and to facilitate the situation. ‘If we do not have a Norwegian preparedness, we will continue to be dependent on imports, especially from China,’ he says. Why does the government not want to implement the private initiatives that have now been set up and which have made a positive effort under the pandemic? Why does one not want to use them to also build up and expand a national preparedness for infectious disease protection equipment?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e456	I agree with the representative that we need to review what emergency measures we need to have. We've seen vulnerabilities in the international supply lines. We know that in individual areas, it is the individual country with the majority of production, for example. Malaysia in the case of gloves used. It's almost the whole market there. It's vulnerable, and we have to do something about that. We can't do all of that alone, we have to do it in cooperation with other countries. This is an ongoing discussion we also have with the EU, about how we can ensure that we have more legs to stand on such a situation. That is why we are also concerned about how we can keep and further develop the initiative that has now been taken very many places to create an industry in Norway, and look at how we can fit it in. But we have to spend some time finding the good models for this. That's how we have huge stocks right now. We've ordered infection protection equipment for an average of 150 years of normal consumption, so right now it might not be about the large purchases, because we can't just buy to keep the activity up. So we have a very large capacity right now, so we need to spend some time looking at how to find these different models in order to possibly have a cooperation with the Norwegian industry. But I agree with the representative that we need to look at how we can have some preparedness capacity, and in what areas we can have it. Then we also have to make sure that we have floated in these stocks, because infectious diseases can also become too old and too poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e465	But these companies can't sit and wait until the government has figured out how to do this, and until the government has found out that they don't have as large stocks as they have right now, but that they need more. They can't turn on and off either. This is a private enterprise that depends on actually having a performance, and the problem for them now is that there is a stop in deliveries. They got a lot of hearing at first, and also a lot of praise, but all of a sudden they don't need it anymore. There are many countries that choose to take a strategic approach to emergency storage. Germany defines this type of activity and this type of enterprise as a response industry and will have it in its own country — a good part of it — for safety reasons. They also provide investment grants when they are set up and they are engaged in self-production. It should also be Norway if we are to take care of all the fine private initiatives that have now come. So will Norway engage in dialogue with the production environments? Will a readiness agreement be established? Would you like to establish supply lines? Will long-term construction of national response stocks in these areas be considered?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e474	All of those questions we will come back to and answer when we're done with the work related to it. This is also on our horizon, how we're going to do it, how we're going to feel, whether there are companies that can be a crisis capacity that can be implemented if anything happens. We have to look at different models for this, but we don't have all the answers this week. This week is our main focus to get the infection down. Providing this is a great job that is now being done by everyone working in this sector. We can't answer everyone and make predictability of all questions. I just have to be completely honest and say that there are a lot of people in this device who are also going to work on this, who are working on extremely many other things right now. Of course, we can invite some consultants, but I have not heard that the Center Party thinks this is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e479	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e484	When the Prime Minister gets serious and talks about the measures we're in the middle of, which probably require a lot of those who work in the state, in the government and otherwise, I think it's hard for her to hang on to the little piece of consultant at the end. That was unnecessary. I understand that things have to take their time, and that things have to be taken in order, and I think it's positive if the Prime Minister and the government want to look at this in a longer perspective. But we must ensure that these private initiatives are not lost in the meantime. We have to make sure that the foundation wall they have now contributed to is an advantage that Norwegian society can actually build on. And we need to think about it. So if the prime minister can't answer them right now, at least the prime minister and the government should engage in dialogue with these private actors and make sure to give them the security that makes them not give up in the meantime because they no longer receive orders from or deliveries to the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e491	I'm saying, as I've said before, that we're dealing with exactly these questions, and we're going to answer this. How fast and how much can I not promise right now, nor how much of the people who have now turned around and contributed to production, which will be necessary in the future. In normal years, we have a significantly smaller need for this type of infection protection equipment, but we need to have it stored. My reply about consultants was just to stress that in the last year it seems a bit unreasonable to hear the criticism of consulting from parties on the Stortinget that have claimed and thought that the government will make a lot of new arrangements, which require that you actually have consultants to help with it – and the next time it says in the paper and believes that this should not be done. Then we had not been able to deliver as much as we have actually delivered on, because it is therefore limited what we have of competence and people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e498	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e504	We've seen in the last few days and weeks a new round of shut-downs that have great consequences for people. In addition to what it means for people's ability to be together in the Passover, and which is done for understandable reasons related to infectious diseases, measures will also have other consequences. A lot of fear of their jobs, of new lay-offs. Many people feel that the way back to the job from which they are licensed is going to be longer. Some fear for their life's work. We are now at risk of a new wave of lay-offs. We risk that businesses can end up, for example. within travel and outdoor life. Then it would be natural to have the help ready. At the same time as the necessary infectious diseases measures were introduced, the government should also have the necessary economic and social measures in place, for example. to increase the daily allowance somewhat, now that more than 20,000 people have been outright since the pandemic began, and we get even more in those parts of the country where shops have to close, or when we get national tipping stops. We should have had a better pay support scheme, so that not permitting is the only alternative in many jobs. There should have been a better support scheme for restaurants and small hotels that have already filled the warehouses for Easter and now go on a huge alert. But the only thing the government had to bring was this money to the municipalities, which is very unclear to what extent will help, and which will only come later. One would think, after a year of pandemic, that the government had done it so that every time you have to shut down, there will also be necessary economic and social measures. How is it possible that the government goes back and forth to shutting down without clear measures for people who lose their jobs and the companies that are being hit?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e513	The measures we have apply throughout the country, anyway. So day money and permitting legislation and compensation schemes apply to everyone, so they automatically come into force if someone has to perminate in Trøndelag, in Valdres or in Tromsø as a consequence of this. That means people get paid. You don't need your own decision to have it, because it's a basic system that's at the bottom and that's actually there. In the case of the compensation scheme, it is there. As I have said, we are now working on getting the warehouse there, according to the wishes of Stortinget, and looking at how we can add some of the funds into it as well, and that will make a contribution. Then there is the Innovation Support Scheme and the Innovation Norway Conversion Scheme. There are a number of other arrangements that are there, and that are going to be there, and that you can apply for and use. So our assessment is that in the social sphere, there are arrangements to help those who are now being hit. Essentially, in the field of business, there is also a compensation scheme in place in which the enterprises that may now experience being closed for two to three weeks — hopefully no more than that — can participate, in the same way that those who have been closed for five months in Oslo are within those rules and are now not affected by the stricter national rules at all. The most affected are not affected by the rules adopted yesterday. There are some new groups. Those arrangements are in place. We see that we don't meet everyone. Therefore, our assessment – and that was the assessment that was in the proposition in January – is that we need a form that the opposition has called ‘a valve arrangement’, a way to seal out in order to meet some companies that do not fit in to get the help of the schemes that we have today. So we've said that giving money to the municipalities, as we did last year, and as we do now, is a good way. Of these, 1 billion was distributed. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We have 750 million. kr, which is left over. We've said that we're increasing that pot, because more people need it. That is why we have now set up financial measures, at the same time as the closure takes place.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e522	There are many who believe that reinforced measures are needed, simply because this crisis has been going on for so long, it has also proved to be a disparate crisis in which the consequences turn out very unevenly. That is why we are calling for, for example. an increase in the daily allowance now, from 80 pst. up to 300000 kroner and increase up to 400000 kroner, so those who have been on leave for a long time, and those who are on leave, get a little more to walk with. When the pandemic broke out, the government was very quick to defer the payment of property taxes, because then you were afraid that the wealthy in this country would not be able to pay their bills. You've cut the wealth tax, increased the stock tax. This scheme has not been used so much, because it turned out that the richest people in the country are largely able to pay their bills. There are others who have that problem. Nevertheless, the government has repeatedly been pressured by the opposition to measures for the unemployed. Is it really that the Prime Minister doesn't think it's more important to put them in the least able to pay their bills than to remove bills for those who have the most of them?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e529	So if we are now to follow the comments of the representative, it was not the decisions yesterday that triggered these lines, but the fact that we have had decisions over a long period of time. So it's not that there were new measures, for which he claimed there was a lack of financial measures, which I think it is, but it was that the pandemic has been for a long time. It's in itself quite legitimate and nice to discuss how much to compensate, but there's another kind of discussion, camouflaged behind the fact that there were new decisions yesterday. Those who are now being sanctioned, those who are now going to experience the changes, are hopefully going to have them for a much shorter time than those who have been on leave for a longer time, and who I agree with completely have a challenge. This attempt to say that we're giving money to the rich, which is what you're really trying to draw, is wrong. When we said we were going to postpone all kinds of tax collection, and not just the property tax, it was to avoid taking money out of companies that have a completely different economic situation now than, for example. in the fiscal year 2019, which would then have completely different consequences. All of this we do to achieve one thing: have enough jobs for people after the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e536	There will be follow-up questions – first the Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e541	I just notice that the Prime Minister has seen the needs of the richest, and then it is with good reason raised questions as to whether she sees the needs of those who have the toughest party. When the NRK interviewed the Prime Minister about the one-year anniversary of the pandemic outbreak, she was asked the following question: ‘Yes, what do you think as Prime Minister when you hear stories about people who can’t afford to pay the bills this month, can’t afford food, can’t afford clothes, that is, save every penny?’ And the Prime Minister’s answer was: ‘Yes, that’s what’s demanding. So the question is, were they really able to afford it before and?' There was nothing else in the answer that suggested that the Prime Minister was ready to give the answer I think the questioner was looking for: a clear message that those who lead the country see how difficult it is, for example. for those who have now been on leave for an entire year, in low-paid workers, who may have lost a quarter of their income, and who, of course, have to turn around and turn on every single penny. Does the Prime Minister understand that that statement created a lot of anger in those who now have a tough party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e550	I understand that in any answer that politicians can always tell with much more empathy about everything we do, and it's also quite symptomatic that the Lightbaking doesn't choose to include what I said in the rest of that answer, for example. that it is therefore early for the government when the pandemic started, that some people will need additional social assistance. We can't have the old rules for social assistance where you have to sell a car and a house because you're in a temporary situation like this. That is why we have liberalised the rules for supplementary social assistance, so that it can help people in that kind of crisis, and that is still so that there are easier rules attached to it. Fortunately, the situation is that the preliminary KOSTRA figures show that less social assistance has been paid in 2020 than in 2019. This suggests that many of the arrangements we have had have helped. We were prepared that many people would need additional help. So it hasn't turned on, as the KOSTRA figures from the Statistical Central Bureau now look. This may indicate that the arrangements adopted in cooperation between government and magnification have actually taken far better and helped better than expected.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e557	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e562	I sent this question from the NRK again to the Prime Minister so that she would have a new chance to answer better. The answer reads, among other things: the Prime Minister is now aware that the figures for 2020 indicate a decrease in the number of beneficiaries of social assistance. But now it is not the government itself that has fought for lower income demands and increased daily pay, compensation for cultural workers, extension of redundancy payments or increased housing support for those who have the least. Such measures have been implemented in the Stortinget against the government's proposals. So it's quite special that when the government is going to defend itself in the face of the difference we're facing, the prime minister basically points to only things she's been forced to do by the opposition. Does the Prime Minister now recognize that with the government's policy alone, she probably could not refer to these figures? For social welfare recipients, the social crisis would be much deeper. Does she have any reflections that she had to be pressured into this by the opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e569	This story is a little bit special. Almost all of these measures have been adopted at the Size of a broad majority, including the government parties. We said the day we presented our first package, that this was not enough to meet the requirements, it was actually a package that was made for the situation before the shutdown. We said that we therefore continued to work with other measures. So a lot of the work began to go on parallel on the Storting, with recordings from many different ones. We worked, for example. providing an income hedge for self-employed persons who fell outside. I had a personal commitment that we should have just that, because there were people who here didn't fit into the scheme, freelancers and others. Then we made many of these things together. I understand that SV wants to say that this, all the suggestions, was because they did it. No, we actually did this together. We should be proud of that. The size took a lot of this work in an early phase. The government worked with its actions and worked in parallel with the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e576	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e582	I understand that the Prime Minister is interested in that story, but I don't agree with that, and I think there are very many others in this room and out in the country who don't agree with it. The truth is that the government has acted too late on the economic and social consequences of this crisis. Again and again, Stortinget has had to push forward solutions that had not been put in place otherwise. That's what makes so many people react so hard to these kind of statements. It confirms some of what I think people think they have seen, namely that the government has not paid attention to the great, unfair social impact of this crisis. I want to ask you a specific question. So now, actions from Nav will once again be cancelled due to shutdown, for example. restricted participation in labour market measures due to infectious diseases control measures. Will the Prime Minister now extend the redundancy allowance also for those with reduced working capacity who now experience a halt in the follow-up, since they have not been allowed to extend their benefit period in line with job seekers?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e589	I can't answer that question directly. We've extended the period of the AAP for a whole bunch of groups just because it hasn't been possible to do it. We look at it all the time. I want to get back to that question, because we're not done making all the assessments of it. It is that infectious diseases are coming quickly, they are getting tough, and we are constantly making assessments afterwards also of whether it is going to turn out especially for some groups. So, as I said, we've expanded the length of the AAP for several groups because of the pandemic during this period. I want to stress that the government made these changes to the social welfare code completely without the Storting asking us to do so. We made those changes because we saw that people could get to work, that it would be unreasonable to make the demands that are usually made in the social assistance system, in a temporary crisis, to ensure that people could actually have a financial framework and the ability to cope. This government has been particularly concerned with children and young people in this situation and has done much too poor children to have the experience of having a normal everyday life. It's one of the things that's made it even better and more economical for their parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e596	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e601	The government recently presented the two main messages this decade, namely the climate communication and the national transport plan. It states that greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector are to be halved by 2030. In 2019, emissions amounted to more than 14 million tonnes. The emissions from road traffic exceeded half of this. Therefore, the Climate Communication suggests that large parts of the climate cuts are just about to happen. The main instrument of government to cut emissions is increased CO 2 tax, and we applaud that. At the same time, they are guided by a political platform that says that they will compensate for increased CO 2 tax by reducing the user charge. So what one hand takes, gives the other hand back. The main government instrument for reducing greenhouse gas emissions can be significantly weakened. It would be thought that at least the national transport plan would contain a credible and concrete climate budget that tells us how the government intends to cut emissions. Instead, we're presented with a plan where the climate and nature are the big losers because of massive highwaying. The government writes that this transport plan ‘builds up the ambition to halve emissions in the transport sector’. Despite this ambition, the transport plan has significant deficiencies in greenhouse gas calculations. For example, they do not include emissions from the motorway projects of New Roads, emissions from the installation phase, materials and land seizures, although the government states that the reduction of ants and forests can result in large greenhouse gas emissions. Emissions from Avinor’s and Coastal Works’ investments and projects starting in the second half of the NTP period are also not included. My question is: can the Prime Minister guarantee that overall NTP will help us to halve greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector by 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e618	I can guarantee that the government's plan to reduce climate emissions will lead to a reduction in climate emissions, just as we see that this government's policy contributes to a reduction in climate emissions. Climate emissions are now the lowest in 27 years. They've gradually gone down, and they're going down because we have a slightly different thinking behind how we do things. We are concerned that we should cut emissions, not developments. We're concerned that we're going to use new technology to get the solutions out, and what we're seeing now is that it's the technology shift in the transport sector that's going to be one of the most important things to do. It is very important that cities use public transport when travelling in their neighbourhoods. But in the rest of this country we have a utility traffic that we have to get there. We have housing and labour market regions that need to be allowed to grow. Then it's important that those who transport up there do it in zero emission ways. That means that the change in the car park, the change in heavy transport, is going to be among the most important things we do. That is why there are many measures in place. We have shown in the climate plan that we can achieve our climate objectives for the transport sector even if we compensate in the road tax for changes in the form of an increased CO 2 tax. It's not like you take the effect away, it's actually black on white, and it's also calculated that it's possible to do it. Whether that is the model we're going to use, or if there are other ways to return money targeted at those who get the most burden and provide the distribution policy aspect of higher charges, we haven't yet concluded. We're still working on that. There are other parts of this system that are also important. But we have to remember that Norway is a long-distance country where people live far apart. Everyone cannot afford to buy a new car in the short term. That means that we also have to compensate back again, so that we do not get a social impact side, or a massive centralization, of the measures we take to combat climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e632	I thank you for the answer and record that the Prime Minister claims that the government will achieve the climate goals, despite the fact that they do not provide an overview of the total greenhouse gas emissions. We are now in a decade as it is more urgent than ever to go from squabbling and green talking to concrete action. It is therefore very disappointing that such an important plan is not clear, either on measures to achieve the climate objectives or on the effects of these technological measures that the Prime Minister puts his trust in. So my question is, what is the reason why the government has chosen not to provide an overall overview of the climate impacts of the national transport plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e641	So we have put forward a separate plan on how to reduce climate emissions in Norway. This does not mean that in each policy area we are working on, we can make what the climate effects of the measures are visible, because it is the sum of climate impacts that are important to the Norwegian society and to the world as such. So as long as we actually reach our targets of cutting emissions, that doesn't mean that each sector is going to be on that balance all the time. This means that some sectors need to take a higher pressure than most other sectors — as we do in Norway, for example. says that the transport sector should do so, because it is a non-quota sector, and because we are far advanced in technology. That's the background for choosing to do that. Then we apply the climate plan to what is in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e648	There will be follow-up questions – first Sverre Myrli.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e653	There will be more climate, more national transport plan and more rail. According to the original plan for intercity development, double tracks were to be completed for Hamar, Tønsberg and Fredrikstad in 2024 and for Lillehammer, Skien and Halden in 2030. With the national transport plan, which came on Friday, the government scrapes double-track development. Now it's just double tracks to Moss, Tønsberg and Hamar. Yes, not even to Hamar, it will stop at Akersvika south of Hamar. Not even the Ringeriks track can now say when it is finished, after they have transferred it to New Wegener, which has a management system where the year of completion does not exist. This is totally unsustainable, says the Right-Rapporteur of Larvik to the NRK. The Labour Party agrees with the rapporteur in Larvik. That is very well said, and he points to the problems Larvik and other cities now have. Why does the government shirk double-track development in the East?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e660	We've been busy providing a better train service in intercity. We've been working on how we can get the best possible, and then we've been working on the fact that railway projects are cracking up in a lot, that things are getting more expensive. I am concerned that when things become much more expensive than intended and planned, we actually have to make revisions and changes to the plans. I think a lot of people know that I'm very happy with a project in the West called Hordfast. That's important to Bergen. It's been important, as I've talked about many times, to get into the national transport plan. Although I have promised that it would start in 2019 or 2020, I said that we cannot take in a giant project where we have run wild on the planning. One of the challenges now is that the railway projects we have have become so expensive that as they are today, they cannot be realized. In addition, we need to have a responsible national transport plan. In the plan, we promise to spend $1.75 on it in the future. kr more in real money every year on average to raise even more, at the top of that we have almost doubled the bet on transportation. It's a huge bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e665	Severe Myrli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e671	We'd like to discuss Hordfast – it's very interesting – but I asked questions about the development of the railways in the East. The work we're facing right now is formidable. We're going to build the country, and we're going to cut emissions. Railway expansion can do both. Railway appropriations are now being reduced in the government’s new national transport plan, despite promises from the current government’s parties, in 2013 when intercity development was adopted. The Prime Minister has run the country all along since 2013, so if there has been anything wrong with planning, the government should have grabbed hold of it and settled it in the past. In 2013, the Christian People's Party's depositor from Eastfold promised double tracks to Halden in 2025. The right-wing representative from Østfold – and now I blink a little to the current president – promised double tracks to Kornsjö, i.e. to the Swedish border in 2030. The right has ruled the country since 2013. Why don't you take care of the double-track development?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e678	That's how we've increased enormously on railway planning resources to keep high pressure. The record low level of planning resources in 2012 meant that there were very few of these plans that actually had some substance when we entered the government. We've gone through, and we've seen that, for example. In Eastfold, there is so much mercury – and we have experienced in winter how dangerous it is – that the costs, with the trasé choices made, have become much higher. As politicians, we cannot just ignore nature, the important challenges, and new cost elements. The follovan has become enormously more expensive than when it was originally adopted. We always have to look for why it's gotten like that. The first spatula was taken in 2007, but we did not start to build it until 2013. It's not like the red-greens had great speed and pace. They had large image construction, but not great speed and pace. So I think that the national transport plan in this area is probably a realism experience for all of us. I don't think the Workers' Party with any credibility, if they're not to let go of building a high-speed railway, can promise double tracks within the framework that's been promised in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e685	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e690	Many children now have only home education, especially on the eastern edge of Oslo. I have long wondered what the government has done to make sure that they have the Internet, that they have the computer they need, and that they have a quiet room they can sit in and follow the instruction from. I ask because we see that the contractions, especially for schoolchildren in the east of Oslo, will reinforce inequalities that are already too big. This is not a discussion about the measures being taken, but we need a discussion about what we are doing to correct the effect that the measures are so different. I am saddened to see what it is like in those families who have the worst opportunity to deal with home school, and who are now charged with it without being followed up with measures for children and young people. It ends with a lot of people who have bad cards on their hands getting it even harder, while children of more privileged families get away with it more easily. I also ask because everyone sees how the government has shown great interest in correcting the damage that the pandemic has caused to the country's capital owners, for example. the owner of the Color Line. A large amount of cash has been paid. This includes, among other things: secured the property of the heirs after Sunde. So someone's children have been taken seriously. Therefore, do I wonder whether the government will take the same responsibility for correcting the damage caused to the income opportunities of those growing up in Oslo East?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e699	I want to stress that compensation funds are not given to individuals and owners, they are given to companies – they get the money. There are thousands of jobs related to Color Line in Norway. These are the jobs of ordinary workers we are engaged in ensuring. I had hoped that Red too was concerned about, instead of the a little bit of a vulgar way of drawing the pictures. It's not the heirs of the Sunde we're concerned about. We are concerned that those who work in Color Line will be allowed to come back to work – that the company does not go bankrupt, flags out and perhaps run from other countries in the future. But I fully agree with the main issue raised – the question of how the situation is socially unfair when schools are shut down. That's it. There are completely different relationships in families depending on how they live. There are different aspects of what kind of follow-up they get from their parents – and we know that. Therefore, some of the things we said early on, that where there are particular pressures, schools should — in addition to being open to those children who have parents with social-critical functions, for example. in hospitals — have an opportunity to leave those in a very special situation who have difficult conditions at home at school. We don't know how much it's used. Then I believe that some of the questions asked here are also questions to be asked to the municipality, because we have said that the extraordinary measures that need to be taken for the purposes of infection will also be put up and compensated for by the state in the future. We are concerned about just a few of these actions — for example: Instead of running home schooling, you can rent accommodation elsewhere, with more space, to have the education. Unfortunately, we have seen too few municipalities that have done just that. In fact, some of the trade fair halls should have been used to teach, to be present, to ensure other measures, precisely because there are challenges for some children.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e708	Red has both been involved in unemployment and has taken the fight against inequality, both municipal and national, and now I ask the Prime Minister about children and young people who have a poor place, in families with poor advice. There are children who are as smart as other children, with the same needs and dreams, but they have been given other cards. And because of the pandemic, they're getting even worse cards when they're going to make it. They have a more difficult everyday life and a more difficult schooling. Because not everyone has a cabin or can afford to rent an apartment in the mountains. They are stuck at home with parents who are hit hard, a hard school that is hit hard, and without offers outside the home. So they can do everything right and get worse because the pandemic has created lasting bias. The question is whether the Prime Minister agrees that it is a common goal to correct it, and what the government is doing about it in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e717	I'm very concerned that we're going to go together out of this pandemic. We're going to work on the areas we see that some groups have been subjected to extra strain and how we can compensate for it. Some of this is to make sure you seal up knowledge gaps, make sure you get help to get along. The first steps in this were in the proposition that was delivered in January, where it was added half a billion dollars to summer schools. Hopefully, this summer we're in a situation where it's possible to fill in, where you can combine activity and education to fill the holes. That money goes to the municipalities. It can be organised by the municipalities, who see who has had the greatest burden associated with this and where the offers should be. The second thing we do is we create more summer jobs, which we also had last summer, where we give money so that people get a chance to get income, and that you can also do it in a socially beneficial way. All these issues are important and are among the things we are working on now in the future, along with the reopening strategy, which I have said I will explain in the Stortinge this week after Easter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e728	There will be follow-up questions – first Seher Aydar.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e733	These are good measures, but I am still uncertain whether the Prime Minister is taking serious action. It can be hard for people with million wages and a completely different circle of people to get involved in it. But there are now many children in the east of Oslo who can do everything right in the future, but who will still get worse out than others, because their parents have not been able to have a home office, or because they have not had their own room to follow the lessons from when they have home school. One thing is the inequality that was there before the pandemic, it has shown little interest in doing something about it, but what will the Prime Minister do with the effect that comes on top, concretely?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e740	I want to stress that the inequality we had before, the government was actually very concerned. For this reason, many measures have been taken by this government to improve the delivery of children. That's why we have free core time in kindergartens, income-grade nursery prices, we now have free SFOs, we have income-rated SFOs, we have a lot of measures not least in terms of vacations, leisure trips and other things for children – just because we're going to do something about the experience and the bad starting point. Last year we already put money to the municipalities to start doing something about summer schools and activities and to make sure that there were opportunities for people to fill the skills gaps, because I fully agree with the representative that we should not make this pandemic an enhancement of the social differences we have. In particular, it applies to children. Children with knowledge gaps need help. We've talked a lot about vulnerable children in general, and this is important to do something about, but I'm very concerned that there are many children who are not vulnerable, but who can get a ballast with them in the future that they shouldn't have had. We need to work on that, including: through the measures I have mentioned, with both summer and summer jobs as an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e747	Then we move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e753	The Prime Minister says she wants to establish a culture of preparedness and security. It is then important that she coordinate efforts between the different departments. Bergen Engines is a large and important industrial workplace, with 700 jobs, such as: maintains and supplies engines for defence ships. The government then has to check at all times that this is in accordance with the relevant safety regulations. 13 months ago it was known that this company was put out for sale. On 15 December last year, it was known that Russian owners wanted to buy this company. Then the Minister of Justice came to the Storting yesterday, after massive pressure from the opposition, calling for a statement and a hearing. She even refers to the opposition and says that it is among other things. having regard to public discussion that they are re-examining this matter. She stops the sale, after three months, and it creates a lot of uncertainty for the 700 jobs this is all about, and also for Norway's security and preparedness. The whole problem is that on 22 February, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs said that this is a matter between two companies in which the government neither can nor should interfere. On questions from Jette F. Christensen, the Minister of Defence replied that the Security Act does not apply. But then, like lightning from the clear sky, however, the Minister of Justice stopped this sale yesterday. I believe that here the Prime Minister has obviously failed his most important task, which she said she should be on guard against, and that is to coordinate the various departments. So here, three departments have said different things in the last three months. Why does the Prime Minister fail to establish a good enough culture of security after eight years?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e764	It is important to go through and look at the experiences of the treatment of Bergen Engines. The government is rather humble in that we need to do that to look at the coordination of both who answers questions when the press asks, and what process it should be. When Lars Andreas Lunde, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Affairs, replied, he was not aware that there was a very intensive work between the services and the departments responsible for the Security Act in doing something. There were wrong statements in view of that, and he should perhaps have refused to answer that media question at that time. This is how we have been working on this matter since it was notified to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on 15 December. It was then notified as an export control case. It is obvious that the sale of an enterprise is initially not an export control case, but it was also notified to the other departments and notified to the services. That is why, in mid-January, before the media releases, a concerted effort was made at the level of the Council of Ministers to strengthen the follow-up to services in order to obtain a future decision-making basis. Since then, we have been working continuously in the various tracks that this case concerns. Bergen Engines is not subject to the Safety Act and does not have a supplier agreement of that type. NSM has not objected to this. So they're not companies under the Security Act, but they provide services to the Defense. But what is part of our safety law is that we also consider whether the type of companies that, although not themselves subject to the safety law, will, by sale, provide technology to a country that we have today measures aimed at preventing them from getting that technology – as a basis for the application of the safety law. It is important to distinguish between the two things, whether you are registered as under the Security Act – some companies that are suppliers of Defence – or whether you are not, but still have deliveries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e773	This was a little new experience, because after the Prime Minister has corrected one questioner after another during this Questionnaire, she now shows a certain degree of humility. This became known on December 15. The Ministry of Industry answers one thing – that this is a commercial transaction. The Minister of Defence gets questions from Stortinget and answers nothing about whether he will assess this or pull the emergency brake or something. Why, and that is the question, can't the Prime Minister – who has said that she will coordinate the ministry's work better, establish a separate unit in the Prime Minister's office to ensure security – get the entire state apparatus for which she is responsible to speak with one voice on a matter of national security?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e778	At those times, we were not ready for the final assessment. That assessment was first made with a strong suspicion when we asked them to stop all preparations. Rolls-Royce, a company that has followed very well in this case, then said that they stop all due diligence processes and ensure that you wait until the government has made decisions. However, at an early stage, in particular that question related to the Minister of Defence's response, the assessment of what was the specific question – the coastguard – was that it would not be natural to stop it for the sake of that contract. Because only that contract would be able to have other measures. It's important to remember the balance of this. If we're going to do drastic things like this, we also have to see if it's possible to prevent it in other ways, and that was that assessment. Maybe you should be more nuanced in that question, but you answered what you had knowledge of at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e791	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e796	What's my point to the Prime Minister is that when it comes to listing and whether the Security Act applies, it's about which companies you list, and it's not going to happen by itself. It's the government that's responsible. At one point the government has said that no, we do not list this, and then the Minister of Justice, who did what she did yesterday – the company is not listed and should not be assessed under the Security Act – must pull the emergency brake. But the question is, why did the government choose – because this is not the responsibility of the NSM or anyone else – this is the responsibility of the government – not to list this company?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e801	I am absolutely sure that we have received many good news about this, but there was never any recommendation to list this company under the Safety Act. We have a large supply network for private sector defence in Norway. If they're all going to be listed, I think we're going to have a rather unwieldy situation for what we can buy. Nor can we operate everything under the control of publicly owned and controlled companies. Questions have not been raised from our services or from the safety authorities that this company should have been listed. Nor is it the listing of the activity, but the fact that we have sanctions – or we do not have sanctions, we have measures – excuses, that was the wrong use of words, a little too simplified. We have measures targeting Russia. Some of those measures are precisely designed to prevent this type of technology, and that is what makes the Safety Act mainly applicable in this case, not that the company's deliveries to the Defence Agency should have them listed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e806	Then the oral question time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e820	There will be some changes in the set question list, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in the salap. The changes were: Question 6, by Mr Björn Moxnes, to the Minister for Defence, will be drawn up by the representative Seher Aydar. Question 7, from the representative Ruth Grung to the Minister for Industry, has been transferred to the Minister for Fisheries and Food as the appropriate representative. Question 10, by Mr Steffensen, representative of the Minister of Research and Higher Education, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e836	My question goes to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, which reads as follows: ‘In 2016, a unanimous decision was taken to investigate the pension conditions of foster parents with a view to ensuring that foster parents do not lose sight of being released, cf. Decision 748. In 2018 we got a NOW about foster homes, little has happened since then. On the other hand, municipal foster homes which, due to the needs of the child, have to be freed are not covered by a pension scheme, while state foster homes are better cared for by their own pension law. What concrete steps does the Council of State take to ensure better pension conditions for municipal foster homes, but also better framework conditions for foster homes in general?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e845	I am pleased that the representative asked me this question, because foster care is a field for which I am burning. All children need a safe and healthy home, and for some young people it is not safe and safe to live at home. In these cases, foster homes are the most commonly used form of child protection. I work for foster parents to have a good framework so that they can give children safe and stable homes. The government will therefore present a foster home strategy in a short time. The objectives of the strategy are to increase the stability of and access to good foster homes, so that all children can have a safe home. The strategy will be based on actions from the foster home message and from the foster home committee, to which the representative refers. Both economic and professional framework conditions for foster parents are an important theme of the strategy. Parental parents in municipal foster homes should be able, as a starting point, to work regularly alongside the foster home assignment, and may also have an occupational pension scheme through their employer. Municipal foster homes thus differ from state foster homes, where one of the foster parents has to be at home full-time and does not have an occupational pension scheme through his or her regular work. However, there are also some municipal foster parents who need to be home for a longer period of time. The loss of pension earnings may have an impact on the pension payment. This is what I'm going to come back to in the strategy. Overall, the measures put forward by the government in the foster home strategy and in the new child protection law this spring should contribute to a more predictable and improved framework for foster homes so that more children can have a safe home.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e854	Thanks for the answer. It is good that the NOU on which the consultation deadline expired in May 2019, almost two years ago, finally gets a strategy. It's important. What I don't get the roof on is whether or not you're actually going to follow up the proposal from the sample to compensate for the loss of the community-based occupational pension. The councils were going to come back to that, but in the situation we are now, where it is so difficult to recruit foster homes, I think that, among other things. this moment must be important. Does the Council not agree with me that pension conditions are important in recruitment and that it should actually follow that he can already signal that he will respond to the call of the sample?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e859	The foster home committee had many suggestions, that's why it was at the hearing and was thoroughly reviewed. As I said, something will also be followed up and important things will come into the Children's Protection Act, which I also aim to present to the Storting within a short time. I come back to the concrete measures when the strategy is presented. But I fully agree that economic conditions and predictability for foster parents are a very important part. I think it's important to have a security to be able to become a foster parent, and that it also works on recruitment. So I just want to say that the municipalities can also compensate foster parents today for the loss of earnings on occupational retirement provision, and that foster parents have the opportunity to save on retirement through schemes that are favourable for tax purposes. It's one of the models that's been pointed at, and that's an opportunity for the municipalities today. So the very theme we're going to get back to in the strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e868	Thank you for your answer. Then I'm waiting for that strategy. Then we're going to the municipalities, because it's not just being a municipality and dealing with foster homes. Today, fortunately, Bufetat has co-financing responsibility for foster homes. Municipalities pay the costs at a fixed rate, and the foster home costs in addition to that rate, they can apply for reimbursement. That reimbursement scheme is now liquidated as a result of the forthcoming Child Protection Reform, where municipalities are to be fully financed for ordinary foster homes. The municipalities are scheduled to be compensated by an increase in the framework grant, but I have recently talked to a large number of rapporteurs and child protection staff who believe that there are too many loose threads in view of whether there is actually enough framework funding – on the status of the NOU, then. They also want a clearer improvement in the framework conditions of foster parents. Can the Council of State guarantee that these important elements are clear and clear to the municipalities by 2022, when the reform is actually due to take effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e879	Child protection reform is an important part of being able to prevent better, giving more responsibilities and opportunities to municipalities. In this context, there will be transfers. Then, as usual, we come back when the municipal proposition comes to Stortinget. It's probably a month and a half – or something around it – until the Storting is presented to it. One would then be able to send a signal about how you think about the transition. I am very concerned about this very topic, because it is so important that the municipalities have the opportunity to offer good foster homes. In the foster home strategy, we also work on how this can become more predictable, that the framework conditions can improve, and simply that the follow-up of foster homes can improve. This whole complex will be important in the strategy – and the economics as well, we will send out clear signals as to when the municipal bill comes and the Stortinge will take a decision on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e891	‘I refer to the fact that the central banks have merged on a project called ‘greening the financial system’, the objective of which is precisely measures to make the money and financial sector a driving force for a green shift. Does the Council of State agree with the idea that the central bank should be given a climate as part of its mandate in order to achieve the objective of a fair green shift?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e898	Under the Central Bank Act, Norway’s Bank aims to maintain a stable monetary value, provide stability in the financial system and an efficient and secure payment system. Furthermore, the central bank shall contribute to high and stable production and employment. We must be careful about overloading the central bank with new objectives beyond its objectives, giving it the means at its disposal. Responsibility for achieving Norway's climate objectives and the transformation it requires lies in government and growth and is not a responsibility we can impose on the central bank. At the same time, climate risk will be an element that must also be included in the Bank's assessment of the economic and financial prospects. Climate change and adaptations to the low-carbon economy have an impact on large parts of the Norwegian and international economies, thus affecting monetary policy and the stability of the financial system. For example, several extreme weather events or measures such as increased carbon prices could affect both activity, inflation and banks’ risk of loss. The current mandate and the framework for the Bank of Norway are a good starting point for tackling climate change and risks. In Norway’s Bank, climate risk has long been a theme of SPU management, and the Bank itself states that ‘in the future, increased competence on climate-related issues will focus on all of the Bank’s tasks and mandates’. Norway’s Bank is a member of the Network for Greening the Financial System, which is a network of central banks and financial supervisors. The Network shall exchange experience on a voluntary basis and promote the ability of the financial system to manage climate risks and prepare for the low-carbon society. One objective is to define and promote best practices both within and outside the network and to carry out or assign analytical tasks in the field of green finance. Participation will improve the bank’s orientation on how banks and financial markets, both at home and outdoor, will deal with climate risk in the future. The Ministry of Finance has appointed an expert group to produce a report on the importance of financial climate risk and climate-related investment opportunities for a fund such as the SPU and discuss alternative ways of dealing with it in the management. Norway’s Bank is also asked to analyse and provide assessments. The Ministry proposes to return to these assessments in the 2022 fund notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e909	I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for the answer and the additional information on climate risk management. The latter is important, and that is something that SV has been driving for many years. I think we can say that the central bank may not have been at the forefront of that work, but it's getting better. So it's not what SV is talking about here, the same as we are going to impose on the Bank of Norway the responsibility for resolving the climate crisis, but the central bank's task has always been to support the political goals of the state, the political goals that also change throughout history. So now we're facing a completely new, historic economic challenge in the form of the climate crisis, and if we're going to achieve those goals, it's important that the whole economy moves in the same direction. In the United Kingdom, a clear marching earth has recently been given from the British Minister of Finance to the Central Bank to help make the economy green and create a zero-emission society by 2050. Will we follow what the United Kingdom has done?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e916	I believe that Norway is one of the most important on sustainable finance. That's what we've been doing for years, and I think Norway should have that position. There is no doubt that the financial sector, banks and institutions play an important role in the green shift. We must contribute to private capital moving towards the green projects and supporting them under the clear objectives we have. But the central question here is whether it should enter the goal of the central bank, and there I am very sceptical. And why? Well, because there has to be a link between the goals we set and the tools the bank has, just so that we can place the responsibility there as well. I don't think we agree so much on the direction in which we're going, the question is whether it should go into the monetary policy goal, and that's what I'm skeptical about.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e923	Putting it as an objective in monetary policy is not what we are talking about, but that it should be part of the mandate, just as there are other parts of the mandate in place. Whether it is financial stability or to contribute to low and stable price growth, the climate should enter into it as the most overarching challenge facing us and which has a major impact on the economy. But it could also allow the central bank to use more instruments to make the financial system greener and to provide assistance to private players in the financial sector who are asking for more green finance, whether it is helping to make the market for green bonds bigger, as an example, or requirements for green securities/debt securities, which are instruments that the central bank can use. This whole field we see developing internationally, we see that the United Kingdom is moving ahead, and then we should at least explore the possibilities that lie here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e928	As I have already said, Norway should be one of the most important in sustainable finance. I believe we have that position today. Both private banks and Norway’s Bank, through the SPU, have considerable expertise in this area. Our research institutions and higher education institutions also have this on their priority list, and they should, because this is important. There is no doubt that climate risk and sustainable finance are also an important framework condition for the Bank of Norway, but the key question is whether it should be included in the Central Bank Act as a goal for the pursuit of monetary policy, and that is what I am skeptical of, because it is difficult to see the coherence between the objectives that are then set, the instruments that they have, especially when we are to put them in charge of the exercise of monetary policy. However, as a framework condition, there is no doubt that this is important for the Bank of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e936	‘In response from the Minister of Finance to written questions on 16 February of this year, the cost of consulting in the country in 2020 is estimated to be approx. 12 B.C.E. kr. Consultancy in state enterprises and companies is also added. Does the Council of State see it as an objective to reduce the use of consultants, and what is the government’s strategy to reduce the use of consultants?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e943	We have a responsibility to ensure an effective use of Community resources and to keep public expenditures down. The use of consultancy services shall support this objective. The use of consultancy services may provide access to up-to-date peak skills that are costly and inappropriate to build up internally, e.g.: in relation to ICT projects. Consultancy services can provide access to new knowledge and contribute to innovation and to prevent budget excesses on large investments, such as: in the transport sector. The cost of consulting services is lower than 10 pst. of the salary and staff costs of the country. About 90 pst. of the expenditure in 2020 focused on the development of software, ICT solutions and other consultancy services, including the planning and quality assurance of transport projects. In the year 2020, it is natural that the cost of consulting services has increased somewhat. We know, among other things: that the tax haven has used consultants to develop the compensation scheme, that FHI has used consultancy services to translate anti-infection measures into several languages, and that Nav has developed a number of new mechanisms to help people through the crisis. These are the measures we had to put in place quickly, and I think we should be grateful that there were consultants who could help. I think we should always work to become better and more effective. In order to facilitate more efficient use of consulting services in the future, the Ministry of Finance announced in the Perspectives Communication that the government will develop guidelines for the purchase of consulting services in the country. The guidelines shall contain recommendations on how to anchor the use of consultants strategically, how different types of consultancy should be carried out in practice, and highlight pitfalls in the purchase of consultancy services.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e956	I thank you for your answer. The point is not whether or not to use consulting services. On some occasions, consulting services will be appropriate. The question is about the violent volume that you have on the use of consulting services, estimated at 12 billion. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Thank you. That's about twice what we use, for example, on the Army in Norway. So that's huge amounts, and in heavy public sectors. For example, one spent 1.6 billion in health enterprises in 2015. kr on PR services and consultants. The year following the use of universities in Norway, an estimated 1.4 billion. kr. To that state council's point in terms of the development of transport: yes, in some areas one needs to hire specialists, but at the same time we see experiences with, for example, Bane NOR, who, when they were to have a new signal director, hired a consultant for six months for 2.3 billion. kr. Is there a reasonable use of resources? How will a person bring down this difficult practice of consulting?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e967	If the centre party had managed to move a little below the slogan level, a little under the big headlines, it would also have been possible to have a reasonable discussion about this. We have said in the perspective message that we are now developing guidelines for the use of consulting services. I mean, you can always get better. After all, the aim of the consultancy services is to contribute to the efficient use of society’s resources. If we, for example, would cut 25 pst. in the consultation requirements relating to consequences for large-scale transport projects, it would affect the progress of E6 Åsen-Steinkjer, E16 Stanghelle-Arna, E39 Ålesund-Molde, E39 Vartdal-Halsafjorden, etc. The point is that these consulting services are used to bring costs down, to contribute to effective progress in the projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e976	The point is that when a person is due to have a proper review and to make sure that costs are reduced, a critical review of the use of consultants is necessary, because the hourly cost of using external consultants is often significantly higher than the cost of using his own staff. In addition, the public must have a strategy to build up competences in their own organisation. Then you're going to have consultants as well. I mentioned Bane NOR instead, who hired a director as a consultant. In addition, an example of one of the largest railway projects in Norway, the Follobane project, has on Ski, 2.3 billion. kr and a consultant who was assigned to lead. Course NOR has a major digitalisation and technology division that has major challenges in maintaining labour and recruiting. Why is there no further effort to maintain important labour in-house rather than a growing use of consultants in emerging areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e983	My approach is that you can always get better. You can always be more effective, and we're always going to be critical of spending money in the state. But to think that you can replace the current use of consultants related to ICT projects and quality assurance of transport projects, with permanent staff in the departments to handle those tasks! It would then be a very large, heavy-rooted and inefficient state sector. So using consulting services makes sense. I agree with the representative that we should have a critical look at it, but then you also have to go in and see what you spend money for. The Public Health Institute has spent money on a campaign to increase the use of HPV vaccines. Does the Center Party think it was unwise? I was concerned that FHI has spent money translating the advice during this coronary crisis into several languages. Was it out of time? We have to be critical, but we also have to look at what the money is actually going to do. In many cases it contributes to a more efficient and less public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e995	As part of the National First Aid Service ‘Together Saves Life’, Norwegian People’s Aid is commissioned by the Health Directorate to manage the project ‘Friendly organisations as emergency workers’. The project shall develop solutions for the use, alerting, communication and training of emergency workers from non-governmental organisations. Norsk Folkehelp reports once again on difficulties with the progress of the project. My question to the Minister of Health and Care is: How will the Council of State ensure that the project ‘voluntary organisations such as emergency workers’ is implemented so that thousands of volunteers can contribute to saving lives?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1002	The emergency aid scheme is regulated by the Emergency Medical Regulation § 5, which states that municipalities and regional health firms can agree on assistance from emergency workers as part of their emergency medical emergency response. The Emergency Aid Scheme is a complement to the public’s first aid efforts and the regular emergency medical services. The system shall not replace the obligations of health undertakings and local authorities to maintain a proper emergency medical response with ambulance and medical care. There is good evidence that emergency workers can help increase survival in time-critical emergency medical conditions outside hospitals. A primary objective of the National First Aid Service ‘Together Saves Life’ is to establish a national network of emergency workers. The project ‘voluntary organisations such as emergency workers’ is managed by Norwegian Folkehelp. Since 2019, Norwegian Public Aid has piloted an emergency aid scheme in several health regions using tablets similar to the ambulance service. This has provided valuable operational knowledge and experience, but is not an appropriate technology to widen the solution. Norwegian Public Aid has therefore taken the initiative to develop an application for mobile phones. There has been a need to get an overview of what the piloting of the application will involve, both technically, legally and resourcely, as well as to carry out a risk and vulnerability analysis. Unfortunately, this has drawn out in time. It has also been necessary to give priority to the order of ICT projects in the sector in relation to the pandemic. This has resulted in delays in some ICT projects, such as the emergency aid application. Like the representative Moflag, I believe that emergency workers are an important part of a continuous emergency chain. We also said that very clearly in the national health and hospital plan. I am concerned that we get good solutions for calling emergency workers, and assume that Health South-East, Norwegian People's Aid and the other actors find a good and quick solution for the application.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1017	I have received feedback from Norwegian People's Aid that they have experienced the Health Directorate as a very good partner all the way. But they feel that this project is running a little bit. As the Council of State had in mind, a pilot has been piloted together with the Hospital in Vestfold and the Hospital Inland to pilot the emergency aid application, but then a risk and vulnerability analysis from the Hospital Partner HF has been identified. They lacked formal assignments, the prioritisation of personnel and assignments as well as funding, and when this assignment was ordered from the Hospital Partner HF, there was a lack of staff to implement. What will the Minister of Health do to ensure that this project comes out of the loop? Someone has to ask these partners to talk. Here, thousands of hours of hard work have gone so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1022	I understand that this is working well, but I think some of the challenges here are not necessarily that it has gone in the loop, but that part of the key personnel who should have worked on this, unfortunately have had to work with other projects that have been higher priority in connection with the pandemic, among other things. a solution for electronic laboratory requisition for new test stations that do not already have electronic patient record systems. There has also been a need to prioritise video consultation solutions and, unfortunately, to withdraw clinicians from ICT projects, as part of the emergency situation. This has caused delays in several ICT projects, including this application, but it is now working to try and do things quickly again. However, I think there is also an understanding that in this situation it has been necessary to take some tough priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1027	Yeah, I think everyone understands that the last year has been special. At the same time, this process has actually started since 2018 and it was already in May 2019 that the need for a ROS analysis was identified. But I don't think we're going to get too much further if we're going to stand here and walk in the loop either, so I think I'm going to end up with a question to the Minister of Health about what signals he can give to these important organizations, who are now facing a Easter where there's probably a little drive out anyway, and where we're going to see how important the efforts of the Norwegian People's Aid, the Red Cross and other organisations are – how important it is. When can this application be in place so that these organisations can help save lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1032	Because of this work I can unfortunately not set a date on it. But, as I said, I assume that Health South-East finds a quick solution for this and prioritises this when possible. So my signal to these organizations before Easter is to say a thousand thanks for the incredibly important job they're doing in readiness. It's very important in the situation we're in now, where a lot of municipalities get a lot of visits and are concerned about how Easter is going to be. Then we know that having these organizations as part of local preparedness is of enormous, invaluable value. Then it's important that we all contribute to the least possible pressure on these services in terms of infection, but also that we do not take too high a risk with the ski trip or mountain trip that we've been thinking about in the Passover, so that we don't unnecessarily burden the services.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1040	‘Government representatives demand measurable results for policy measures to reverse the decline in the population in the north. But the statistics from the SSB show measurable results of government policy. Oslo and especially the Viking have great growth. North Norway has a great downturn. The development shows that the government does not bet on the whole country, but conducts a policy that drains North Norway for people. The government's efforts are centralising the country and leading to major difficulties for young people buying owner-occupied housing in central districts. Does the Council of State see policy working?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1047	It doesn't mean that the government doesn't bet on the whole country. Just to make it clear: I don't know how the government is running a policy that drains North Norway for people and contributes to centralisation. From 2013 to the beginning of 2021, there have been over 4,400 more inhabitants in Northern Norway. But now the population is going down. This is due, inter alia, to: that there will be fewer immigrants now than a few years ago. Another reason is that fewer children are born throughout Norway, including in the districts. Low birth rates are particularly pronounced in small places. The relocation of young people from the districts to the centre has been taking place for many decades, even when the Central Party was in government. As a result, cities and districts have changed places in terms of birth surpluses — increasing in cities, falling in districts. This has been an ongoing trend for many years. The government is pursuing a forward-looking district policy to transform the Norwegian economy for growth and new jobs, and we are further developing this now through three new strategies, for small cities, coastal areas and inland areas. We're increasing the bet on transportation and broadband. And in a new national transport plan, we're going to continue the government's historic movement effort in North Norway. We're betting billions on road investments, on highways and highways. We build broadband in the districts as never before. Good transport and broadband solutions are essential to ensure viable districts. The government has moved and established about 1 230 state jobs outside the Oslo region. At the same time, there have been 2,500 more state posts in both of the Nordic states since we took over. We also encourage everyone to have the opportunity to take education, regardless of where you live and the situation in which you live. In the summer we will also present a strategy for decentralised and flexible education. The reason people live in the whole country is because they have a job to do. That is why we give priority to good business conditions. District policy is about action in a number of policy areas, and we will continue our commitment to transport and tax relief to create jobs in North Norway. We will continue to focus on decentralised education, on research, innovation and an active and state localisation policy, better local economy and the development of broadband across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1062	I want to go into a few of the wrong information that came from the Council of State. Under the red-green government, there were many fewer municipalities that had a decline in population than today. In the case of NTP, it turns out that today it's probably 1,030 km of state road that doesn't have yellow stripe. These roads are mostly located in the north of Norway and in the west. For the part of the Nordic region, none of the roads lacked yellow stripe, which was inside NTP, neither E10 in Lofoten nor E6 Sørelva–Borakamo. Those sections are simply taken out of the NTP. There is no bet – or what does the Council of State think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1069	It is true that there was a population growth up to 2019 in North Norway. We can thank an offensive business and labour immigration from the EEA region for that. Thanks to the EEA, many came to North Norway which contributed both to increased employment and to increased housing rates. What's the Center Party doing? Well, they've been planning to scrap the EEA Agreement and prevent companies in North Norway from growing and creating new jobs – which make people want to move to North Norway because of exciting jobs, and ensure that businesses have the opportunity to export their goods to markets that allow them to make money and develop good new jobs. When it comes to NTP, this government has a big stake on the county roads, which is a historically good regional policy measure, which unfortunately the centre party did not contribute to. They will only transfer the county roads to the county councils, without requiring State funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1076	The Council of State may not have understood what the Central Party has said. The centre lot shall not terminate any agreement. The centre party, on the other hand, sees that it is possible to develop better agreements for trade between Norway and Europe, without having to accept all kinds of directives. We want good deals – it's quite clear. The agreement we're going to have, if we end up there, is going to be a better deal. In the period when the Right has had government power, Nordland has only received a net increase of 160 jobs, while Oslo and Akershus have had an increase of a total of 8,519 jobs. There is no sign of an active district policy shifting jobs northwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1083	In the period 2001–2019, the number of persons employed in North Norway increased by 7.8 pst. Had it not been for labour immigration from, among others, Europe, would have increased by 3 pst. Indeed, the Centre Party will take Norway out of the EEA Agreement, thereby breaking the lifeline of businesses and thousands of jobs throughout Norway. The consequences of this are that North Norway will live by the state budget. North Norway shall live by the fact that there are people in Oslo who decide who is to be allocated or not in North Norway. What North Norway needs is more of the policies that contribute to job creation, that people want to move to North Norway and stay in North Norway. There is so much good going on in research, innovation and development. There are many companies that want to create values and want to create jobs. But if the Center Party comes to power, it's the biggest threat to Norwegian jobs in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1093	This question, from the representative Björn Moxnes to the Minister of Defence, will be raised by the representative Seher Aydar.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1098	‘The Bergen Engines case has revealed serious challenges in the defence’s relationship with private business and the potential impact of foreign actors on the security of the state. What has the government done during this period to secure Norway against Russian and other foreign business activities that could threaten the security of the State, and what steps does the Defense take now to learn from the Bergen Engines case, including when it comes to acquisition regimes and so-called strategic cooperation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1105	The Bergen Engines case has not been primarily a challenge for the defense, because we have spent time clarifying whether the contract conditions the defense has with Bergen Engines have been problematic. The defence may find alternative suppliers to the services provided by Bergen Engines. But the Bergen Engines case has shown us that what we have announced in the Security Act adopted in the Stortinget in 2018, what we have addressed in the Long-term Defence Plan, and what we have addressed in the Social Security Communication recently adopted in the Stortinget, namely that economic interests and foreign purchases can be a security risk and could threaten national security interests in Norway, is correct. For Bergen Engines, we have come to the conclusion that it is not primarily that the defence has to get anyone else to service a diesel engine, which is dangerous, but it is that technology and knowledge are transferred to a nation with which we do not have safety cooperation, which threatens national security. What we have done is, among other things, what we have done. that we have promoted the Security Act for Stortinget and adopted a law that allows us to address these situations. We have also been notified through the long-term plan and the social security message that we need to focus more on this, and we need to have a screening mechanism that allows us to seize the times when this kind of thing happens. We also have our secret services, which focus on this, and which report the complexity of it in their open threat assessments. They say that this is something we need to be aware of. We also work with our allies to create a common understanding of the challenges that this presents. It is complex when it comes to complicated ownership structures going through in companies that are important to us. We work with both the EU, NATO and other allies to gain as much understanding of these ownership structures as possible. So this is an important part of the screening and the knowledge we collect through our own pension fund, among other things. When we are a big owner abroad, we also get access to who owns different companies, and can use it in the job of ensuring that no unwanted ownership comes into important sectors in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1116	First of all, it should be lacking that this sale is now stopped. I hear what the Council of State says, and I do not register much humility and willingness to learn from this matter, because we have a national threat assessment where buying up and investing in Norwegian business from states that spy on Norway is the first thing that is mentioned, and then the government spends so long. Governments have asked for and changed explanations several times, including: how and how the Safety Act can and cannot be used. Could be something to learn here, for example. on this massive outsourcing of the security of the state that we have seen under this government makes it difficult to keep track of all the contracts, suppliers and subcontractors? And because of the slow response that the government has lost control a little?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1123	In response to the fact that the representative accuses me of surging in this matter, I suggest that she read the record later, and she gets the answer I gave to the previous question. That's where I explained all those things. Then we have to be aware that this kind of thing we're going to take on the highest seriousness. When it is for the defence ship's part that we can find an alternative supplier to do the maintenance that Bergen Engines stands for, it's not a good reason to go in and stop the sale of Bergen Engines. That's why we need to gather more knowledge. We have done that, and the totality of the technology transfer and the knowledge transfer that can happen when sold to owners that we don't want to own that kind of technology enables us to use the Security Act to stop it. But this is not an urgent decision. This is a decision that must be thoroughly considered, duly justified and qualified, so that we are absolutely sure that it is also in a subsequent test.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1130	I hear what the council says. Earlier today, the Prime Minister was standing here on the pulpit and was unable to answer why Bergen Engines, which is now obviously not available for sale to the Russians, was not listed for follow-up to the Security Act. She said that Bergen Engines was never rated, and if all of the companies that provide the defense were to be listed, it would lead to an unbridled situation. I find it hard to understand how this should be understood as anything other than that the Minister of Defense does not actually have control over this messy forest of contracts, suppliers and subcontractors who have grown up around the Defense. What guarantees do we have that there will not be a new case like the Bergen Engines case in a few weeks or months?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1137	I'm not going to spend time discussing the representative's ability or willingness to get involved in what's facts, but there was no basis for using the Security Act when we considered the defence's need for Bergen Engines. Then there is a basis for using the Security Act when we see it in the light of national security, the transfer of technology and competence, and that's what we've spent time evaluating. The reason Bergen Engines was a company that was not subject to the Safety Act or a security agreement was that they are a subcontractor to a main contractor of the Defense, and then it is that the main contractor has that security agreement, taking the necessary steps, so that we are absolutely sure that sensitive information does not go astray. We've used the National Safety Authority to go after it and see if that's right, what we're saying. They conclude that in the case of Bergen Engines and the Defense and the knowledge that has been there, we have acted according to the procedures that apply, and so it has been secured, the information that was needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1145	This question, from the representative Ruth Grung to the Minister for Industry, has been transferred to the Minister for Fisheries and Food as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1150	«In the acquisition of new research ships for the Marine Research Institute, the government has chosen to highlight the acquisition without imposing environmental requirements by weighting environmentally friendly technologies. This contrasts with the green ambitions expressed by the government to have for state acquisitions in the maritime forecast, which is now being treated. Why have no environmental requirements been imposed on the acquisition, and does the Council of State consider that it has had an impact on the ability to build the ship at a Norwegian shipyard?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1157	The government has high ambitions for green shipping. In 2020, we presented a green shipping package, which included: by a new conditioning scheme, a loan scheme for the renewal of the short sea fleet and fishing vessel and a strengthening of the efforts of the Norwegian Research Council in relation to green shipping. In the announcement to the Stortinget about the maritime policy we put forward before Christmas, we follow this up further. The government's policy is to lay down the overall framework conditions for the maritime industry and for the implementation of acquisitions. Then the individual buyer has to decide for himself what is the best solution within these framework conditions. The Ministry has not provided detailed guidance on this acquisition, as we believe that the Marine Research Institute is the closest one to considering how the acquisition should be organised. Marine research itself has weighted the price at 60 pst. and quality to 40 pst., of which the environment is included in the quality criterion. The Institute states that in the technical specifications of the tender they have required emissions and measures to reduce energy consumption. Requirements for the use of environmentally friendly materials and products are included as part of the award criterion quality. Therefore, claims that no environmental requirements have been imposed are incorrect. The vessel will have a low emission of particulate matter and harmful gases and many measures have been taken to reduce the consumption of bunkers or diesel. The aim of environmental measures is to reduce emissions, not to act as a protectionist measure. The government prioritises facilitating Norwegian maritime industry to grow in an international market while at the same time contributing to the transition to green shipping. The purpose of the yard package was, among other things, to facilitate an increase in the volume of tasks from the Norwegian Government yard to be involved in and compete for. The contract for, inter alia, the upgrading of Skjold-class sea defence corvettes has gone to Umoe Mandal, and all contracts for upgrading the existing marine research research ships have gone to Norwegian shipyards. The bulk of the package has therefore gone to Norwegian shipyards. With this ship we get a new, important research ship to go coastally primarily in the north and in cooperation with the North University. Knowledge-based management is, of course, a bottom line for the sustainable management we succeed in managing our marine resources as best we can. It becomes an important grant to acquire further knowledge and become even more attractive to sustainability.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1174	Thanks for the answer. That's right: we're concerned that the Marine Research Institute is getting new research ships. But it is a little strange that they are left to themselves in the design of such challenging contract and tender procedures as it is. We have worked closely against marine research, and they have really tried to rig it so that it would benefit Norwegian shipyards. It is also stated in the Act on Government Acquisitions of 2017: ‘State, county and municipal authorities and bodies governed by public law shall set up their procurement practices to help reduce harmful environmental impacts and promote climate-friendly solutions, where appropriate.’;» When we dealt with the Public Procurement Act in 2019, the ambitions were to approx. 30 pst. should be focused on the environment. Now we have the climate message for treatment, which also has a strong focus on using state purchasing power. Then it's a little special that you talk about that it's quality and not the environment that's taken care of. Have you learned something here in relation to being able to use the government purchasing power more precisely in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1188	I very much agree that using public and private purchasing power is very important. The market is also important in order to contribute to greening both public and private customers. We have full confidence that marine research is the one that is best able to create a requirement specification for such a research vessel, by weighting both price and quality. The foreign yard was both the cheapest and the best on quality and the environmental requirements of marine research. Then it is very important that such a vessel be equipped in relation to the mission it is to do, with perhaps longer sailing periods. And it's still a challenge in Norway when we're going to electrify, as one said here a day: In Stamsund, there's not even a fake contact that you can charge a battery on, for example. the smallest coastal fleet. So coastal infrastructure is also a challenge to find a solution. That's why you've ended up with the vessel you've done here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1197	At the same time, however, the Council of State stated that funds had just been earmarked for the 2020 crisis package. The council also said in the press release that this was intended to contribute to activity in Norwegian shipyards. But then we also – at least I have heard it through roundabout – see that European countries say that the yards are part of the societal critical, and thus they manage to disperse their own shipbuilding industry and not participate in international competition, as we have followed up. At the same time, a new report has been presented this month that looks at the possibility of increasing competitiveness and sees that we have a space for action. So the question is, are we too good in class? Have we used the space for action that we have the opportunity to use, to make demands on Norwegian working conditions, to make demands on apprentices, etc.? Is there anything more we can do to strengthen competitiveness in our own maritime sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1204	I feel that in this situation, the majority of the assignment has gone to Norwegian shipyards. These include: then upgrading the Defence Vessels. It is also important to remember that being in the EEA means that we have to compete with more, but it also gives us opportunities and access to a larger market. Among other things, I saw in the Coastal Magazine, that there is a significant reserve of order of approx. 134 vessels at Norwegian shipyards, and have also been commissioned from abroad, Germany, Canada, various countries within the EEA territory. This shows that Norwegian shipyards are also receiving assignments from abroad. Then, of course, on a general basis, I agree that when there are safety and preparedness reasons, direct acquisitions can be made, as has been done in this case with the defence vessel. But the EEA Agreement also allows us to compete in a larger market, and it shows the article in the Coastal Magazine that Norwegian shipyards have taken positions on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1214	‘The Bane NOR is postponing a new station on the Gulskogen in Drammen for an indefinite period. Double-track/new station is an overall plan submitted by Bane NOR, adopted by the municipality, as part of the new Vestfoldbahn. Path NOR has until now provided that the whole plan is implemented at the same time. Bane NOR is now breaking this promise and will transfer a new station to the Gulskogen–Hokksund project, which no one knows when. Does the Council of State agree that agreed plans between the State and the Municipality must be respected and will he ensure that the promise of the construction of Gulskogen station is kept as foreseen?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1221	I thank you for the question. The double-track Drammen-Gulskogen and the conversion of Gulskogen station were not part of the original intercity concept but entered the concept in 2015 to ensure good capacity and flexibility in terms of the expected increase in traffic on the rail system in the Drammen area. The long-term goal is to be able to run four regional trains per hour each way between Drammen and Tønsberg and two intermediate trains per hour in Rushtida. In addition, the intercity development should reduce the running time between the two cities to about 27 minutes and facilitate increased capacity for freight trains on both Sørlandsbanen and Bergensbanen. The 2015 plan builds on a train turnaround at Gulskogen station and results in a trasé changeover, major interventions to provide space for double tracks adjacent to the track area of the Sundland shunting station, constructions with extended road, walking and cycling subways, new platforms at Gulskogen station with four tracks to platform, demolition of today’s station building and moving old freight houses, as well as railway technical installations with signalling and securing systems based on outgoing technology. Path NOR has sought the best solutions for optimising plans and plant implementation before and after regulation decisions and decision to put in place the construction work. In particular, it was important to resolve the need for temporary train parking and to avoid having to build a new temporary signalling and securing system just ahead of the planned ERTMS deployment. Path NOR found an alternative solution and then established an agreement with the municipality of Drammen to use the area around the freight terminal in Nybyen for parking and turning during the construction period. This solution is considered by Bane NOR to be significantly better and less invasive than the original plan. The need for intermittently closed tracks at Gulskogen station and Sundland will be smaller with this solution than one first established. The same is true of the need for intervention on the Sundhaugen-Gulskogen route. Bane NOR, among others. to reverse the line in order to establish double tracks to the Gulskogen and thus avoid having to extend the number of subways and other cost-requiring structures. Yellow forest station building can be maintained and easier track resolution will be established. In addition, Bane NOR will not be able to build temporary signalling systems which will have to be replaced by ERTMS in a short time. So it's going to be a solution that will save the cost of $12 billion. kr. It's true that the representative mentioned that one of them has gone away from one of those plans because one of my thoughts has a better health.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1234	Thank you for the answer, which I felt in a way was a great evasive from that question really. New station on Gulskogen was initially necessary for Bane NOR – i.e. Bane NOR – to ensure space for turning over and derailing trains in connection with the development of Drammen station. As part of the overall plan, which included a new station on Gulskogen, the Drammen municipality provided temporary space in the Drammen center, Nybyen, for the laying of trains. Then one feels that Bane NOR uses the temporary permission as an argument that Gulskogen station is no longer necessary. The rapporteur says she is cursed and feels cheated. Does the Council of State think that the rapporteur has good reason to feel that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1239	I think I should admit that there has been a change in those plans. Here was a concept that one had before 2015. Then landed a new concept around 2015 where this became part of the plans. We've asked Bane NOR to see what solutions they can come with. That's how it works, among other things. Because of the possibilities that Drammen has also provided, we can now really get a good offer. That's not going to be the challenge, when we can save costs of 1.2 billion. kr. With that control plan now, there will be a possibility, a right to build, but not a duty. I think it's important that, when we have so many challenges on the railways, we build the measures we know we need. So now we're getting an improvement, so I think this is a good example of an effective idea from Bane NOR's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1246	Thanks for the answer. It almost sounds as if to scrape the Gulskogen station was adopted in 2015, but it came as lightning from the clear sky now the late days. I understand the point and the need to save money, but the municipality of Drammen has already gone very far to contribute to the reduced cost of the new west fold path through the Drammen, among others. in the Kobbervik Valley, but also by offering to pay one third of the necessary road conversion on Gulskogen in connection with a new station. It is also important for Drammen, because it opens up an environmentally friendly urban development in an important part of the city of Drammen. There, Bane NOR would have contributed, but he now refuses to contribute to it. This means that important urban development is at risk because the state does not play a team. Does the Council of State see that the complete reversal of the Bane NOR also reduces the government's ability to achieve its own national targets for environmentally friendly and sustainable urban development?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1253	I understand that the representative Christoffersen here is taking up, but it is also that Gulskogen came into 2015. It was not part of the plans until 2015. So we've changed, we have to admit that, but it's going to save 1.2 billion. kr, and we achieve what was intended to enter it in 2015. Now there's a lot of areas connected to the railway that have to experience a bad offer, that we've gone away from the concept. I think it would be hard for those areas to understand that we were willing to spend 1.2 billion. kr extra when we can achieve that offer. So I actually think this is a good example that we're now going away from this so far, because we see that we can save costs. So the regulation plan gives you a right to build, but not an obligation. We have to follow this further, but the way we evaluate it now, we think it's right to save those costs because the supply won't be impaired.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1263	‘There are plans for the expansion of a large industrial area around Kvernaland on Jären, with large data centres. The plans will lead to the degradation of good food soil and important natural areas. The construction will be strongly affected during the construction phase, but also after completion. We're going to live off food for all future, and it's short-term to build down precious food for short-term profit for a few. Does the Council of State mean that the plans for the expansion of Kvernaland are in line with the objective of protecting food soils for the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1270	I would like to thank the representative of the Sakarisassen for an important case for soil protection. The case in question is ongoing in my own country and with a comprehensive coverage in the media, especially locally, but also nationally. I see that the government manager in Rogaland has raised objections, among others. from the point of view of soil protection. If the state administrator and the municipality do not agree, the plan will be sent to the municipal and modernisation minister for final decision, and my department will have to comment on the matter. I am therefore following the matter with great interest, but I do not want to comment on it now since it can end up on my table at any objection. I believe that this case is a good example of the great struggle for land, and that soil protection often comes into competition with other social interests. Often, as in this case, there are large commercial interests inside the picture and strong groupings that speak their case. Fortunately, many people also speak the subject of soil protection, and that is important. We need municipalities, county councils, residents, businesses and organisations that have knowledge of soil protection, in order for us to be able to maintain soil and produce more food in the years to come. It is also important that soil protection interests emerge well, and not least that alternative sites are assessed for such an industrial area. In this case, the municipality has an important task as a local planning authority. I am well aware of this task from my time as rapporteur in this region. Soil protection is an important national interest to be safeguarded by municipalities. That is why the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation and I recently sent out a letter to all the municipalities and county councils to clarify the important job they have in securing soil protection. I am glad that very many municipalities take soil protection seriously, as the figures for redisposal also show. The preliminary COSTRA figures for 2020 show that we can achieve the Storting re-disposal targets for the fourth consecutive year. So soil protection is not something we're going to be done with, which we can cross on a list and say that we've achieved. That's something we have to work for the whole time. It requires a continuous awareness of politicians at all levels, both local, regional and national.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1289	I think it is important that one, whether it is an appeal procedure here, thinks of the letter sent by the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, together with the Minister for Agriculture, with a very important message to municipalities and county councils. It's up to them that one is not just in party speeches and talking about soil protection, but that one is actually following up. I've visited the area and I think that, as it appears in the media a few times, it doesn't look like there's a large soil area to use, but small soil areas. This is a large area, which will have great consequences for the region and for the county. It's our business to have one here thinking about land change. It must only be conscious is a loose agreement versus an actual change. Does the Council of State think it can be wise in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1298	First, I am concerned that cultivated land is important in itself. It takes quite many years to get some centimeters of good, adorable soil. In addition, you have land that can be arable land in the future, which is interesting for society to be able to care for. It turns out that it is often located around the central strata, and that's why people have chosen to live there – it has been accessible and good food soils near the large extension areas. In terms of land change — almost a makeshift — there is an enticing way to think about it. But I'm concerned that we have to focus on soil protection all the way. Taking an area out and saying it shouldn't be bound for industry anymore, but can go to soil protection, for example, it's not an objective to regulate a new area for soil protection in order to preserve the soil. Then it's about making us make the least possible of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1305	For my part, thinking about land change is not relevant in this case. I think the signals given by the state council are good precisely because we know that it takes a long time to build good food soils. This thing I think is very classic. One stands between big business interests – on the one hand data centre and on the other hand food soil. We know that's the food we're going to live off. We cannot eat “bytes”, as it has been in this context, we must eat food in the future as well. Furthermore, I would just say – based on the knowledge I have – that we and the Council of State have our good partners to ensure that one has a development that is in line with soil protection. Then is my last question: What will the Council of State do to support their local party communities, which I perceive are concerned with soil protection and the future interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1312	I thank you for the great question of what I want to do to support the local politicians. I am doing what I can to support our local politicians – both in my own party and in the other party – who are engaged in soil protection. But in this direct matter, I will not express myself until I have got the case on my table, because I will not work in a matter I believe so much about. That being said, I am concerned that all parties should have very good contact with their locals, that we do not stand and say anything in the hall here and do other things regionally or locally. Rogaland has been good at securing soil protection. They've made a long-term limit. Municipalities have agreed that soil protection is incredibly important. We have even laid construction fields across the municipal boundaries just to ensure that you do not take land. Municipal conditions have been created precisely because soil protection is important. And that's what we have to hold up in all the states of our country, we're going to achieve the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1331	This question is drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1339	«A few weeks ago, the NRK had to stand up to school law and complain that a programme manager in one of their radio programmes spread an anti-Semitistic message over the ether. Fortunately, we rarely hear such messages in Norwegian media, but equally fully antisemitism remains a problem in Norway. The Minister for Culture and Gender Equality has discrimination in his portfolio. Why does the Council of State, which is otherwise active in the debate on racism, not want to distance itself from such anti-Semitistic messages as we witnessed in the NRK?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1346	The representative Listhaug insinuates that I will not distance myself from antisemitism. But the fact is that I have both taken and will continue to distance myself from antisemitism in the same way as any other form of discrimination and hate speech. I don't remember how many markings of the crystal night Raja participated and spoke on, said Ervin Kohn on November 9th last year. It's about trust and credibility in the Jewish environment when you're invited to speak year after year. Unlike others, I don't just take away from prejudices, but I do what I can to not promote them either. The background for Listhaug's questions is explained by a program manager in the NRK. The NRK's management has called the statement anti-Semitically, the NRK has complained strongly and removed the entry. It was in place, as I also wrote in my written reply to Listhaug. The NRK event gives you the opportunity to talk about roles. I am not only Minister of Equality and Discrimination, but I am also responsible for the media and freedom of expression. As Minister of Culture, I am the owner of and general assembly in the NRK. This does not imply being a kind of over-editor who is going to pass judgment on individual cases NRK publishes on an ongoing basis. It's possible that's what Listhaug wants, that the NRK in its relationship with the government lodges for the ministers of culture. In that case, she would like to be alone to mean it. Thinking about what roles you have can be useful, especially for someone who might soon take over as the new leader of a political party. I want to build a society based on high trust between different groups, where people with different skin color, religion and origin can live in coexistence with each other, where in our beautiful Norway there is room for Jews and Muslims – white, brown and black. I want to build trust. And I think a lot of people would think that a number of Listhaug's statements would rather build confidence, like that. the conviction that immigrants benefit, but do not provide, and that such as me are to be carried on a gold chair in Norway. For what kind of society would Listhaug build with the claim that the Workers' Party believes the rights of terrorists are more important than the security of the nation? Both Jews and Muslims provide, and none of the groups are carried on gold chairs. But even more important than that is that everyone is able to see that Jewish hatred, Muslim hatred and immigrant hatred have something in common, and that's the hatred -- it's the divisive prejudices. If there's one thing that stands as common denominator for my political function, then it's that I actively work to build cohesion and fellowship between different groups. I have not only repeatedly distanced myself from antisemitism, but also worked actively against the Jewish hatred. The question is whether the representative, Mr Listhaug, can say the same. Has she taken clear enough distance from and actively opposed anti-Muslim and anti-Islamic attitudes in her political work?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1367	Even if you're voiced, using attacks as the best defense and trying to hide behind what roles you have, it doesn't cover the fact that Council Raja hasn't taken a distance from what was said in the NRK. I want to refer a little bit to what was said there. It was simply dehumanizing, it was an anti-Semitic tirade. First of all, he wanted this vaccine not to work for the Jews; he would simply make Jews sick and die. Secondly, the Jews — the people who have been persecuted and slaughtered for millions of years — in this programme were being produced as bloodthirsty, cruel with special love for killing children. When I asked the question to the Council of State, he said, ‘I believe that the opinions included in the ‘Shaun on P13’ programme were anti-Semitic and highly critical.’ My question is, will the Council of State Raja distance itself from this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1381	I spent three minutes saying that, and I started by saying that I'm taking the distance. I received from a Holocaust survivor, now deceased Samuel Steinmann, after a dialogue meeting I arranged at the House of Literature, the name «Mensch», while I note that representatives from the Jewish environment have said that Listhaug rather spread fear. As politicians, we should lead by good examples – in the way we put ourselves into words, in which things we choose to use our forces. We all have a responsibility to contribute to less aggression and division and to a less hateful tone of public vocabulary. As politicians, we are country leaders and thus also role models for citizens and voters, for future generations of politicians, and for commenting field writers. Words work, words spread, words create attitudes, words create hatred, words hurt, and words lead to actions. At least I and the government know that, and the representative, Mr Listhaug, should know that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1388	I can catch up with the instructive tone that State Council Raja here shows. He has actually not distanced himself from what was said in this program, in answer to my question. Now I hear he says he's gone, so that's at least a step forward. The fact is that Jews flee from Europe today, the fact is that Jews flee from France, from Sweden and from Malmo, where anti-Semitism gets an ever stronger foothold. We know that these positions are also in Norway, so it is extremely important that we distance ourselves from them. Then I wonder if the Council of State Raja agrees with the Council of State of Ropstad, that he believes the statements that fell in the Shaun programme of P13 were anti-Semitic and most critical, and why not Council of State Raja could answer it in writing in his reply to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1397	Once again, I've taken a distance and keep taking a distance. The peace activist, theologian and poet Martin Niemöller wrote in 1946 the poem Indifference: ‘First they came for the Communists And I did not speak out Because I was not a Communist Then they came for the Socialists And I did not speak out Because I was not a Socialist Then they came for the trade unionists And I did not speak out Because I was not a trade unionist Then they came for the Jews And I did not speak out Because I was not a Jew Then they came for me And there was not one left Two speak out for me» The morale of this poem is the reason why the Norwegian Jews and the Norwegian Jewish environment stand at the forefront when we experience Muslim hatred in Norway, because they understand what such hatred does to people, and what such hatred leads to. In this poem, there's a lot of learning for each of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1441	‘North Norwegian Museum of Art is the most important museum in the north, with a great potential. [[NNKM]] The last year has been a chaotic year culminating in a lawsuit between the dismissed director and the board. Several members of the Administrative Board and administrative staff have now resigned. All the negative attention around NNKM worries me, because the biggest loser is the museum itself. The Minister for Culture is responsible for appointing half the Governing Board and the Chairperson and granting State aid to the NNKM. Will he now take responsibility for cleaning up, so that NNKM can develop further?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1448	I have already answered the representative in writing on a question, I think it was yesterday. But I can add that I am familiar with the turmoil that the last year has marked the Nordic Art Museum. I have also registered that the representative of the board of directors of the artists' organisations and the employees have withdrawn from their duties. Of course, this is not a desired situation. The Ministry of Culture contributes annual operating grants to the Nordnorsk Kunstmuseum and is the only permanent public contributor to the museum. The Ministry also appoints three out of six members of the board of directors of the museum. At the same time, the Nordnorsk Kunstmuseum is an independent foundation. That means it's the board of directors of the foundation, not the department, that's responsible for the best running of the museum. The Ministry must therefore assume that the Board addresses the challenges that have arisen and finds the best way forward for the museum. All parties involved have a responsibility to contribute to the coherence and understanding of the way forward. All fractions must be willing to participate in discussions about what is important and proper action to strengthen the visual arts field in North Norway, and what role the Nordic Museum of Art can and should play in this work. Opinion breaks are basically a good thing, but they assume that actors talk, listen to each other, and recognize that opponents of opinion also have good motives. So I assume that the museum's administration and management have an open and constructive dialogue with the respective public authorities, as well as the various actors in the visual arts field in the region. It is important in this process that many votes are contributed to the discussions and assessments. In a letter of 3 July 2020, we in the Ministry of Culture called on the museum to do just that – to invite the respective public authorities to a conversation that creates the best possible mutual understanding of roles and future cooperation between different actors in the field of art in the region. The pandemic has led to the postponement of this meeting, but I am aware that the museum has now invited representatives from the Ministry of Culture, the Sametinget, the two counties, the Longyearbyen local government and the municipality of Tromsø to the dialogue meeting on 8 April, i.e. shortly after Easter. The purpose of the meeting is to monitor expectations and thoughts about the work of the museum for the whole part of the country. This is a very positive initiative. The Ministry of Culture will participate at the level of the Office. Furthermore, it is important for the museum to have an active dialogue with the arts field in the region and to ensure good artistic competence at all stages. The clarification of the artistic field's expectations of the role of the museum will also be of great importance in the further process. The museum's board of directors and management has taken the initiative of important discussions that will facilitate the further development of the Nordnorsk Art Museum and the visual arts field in the north. The Ministry of Culture aims to contribute to the discussions to the extent that this is desirable. Although the pandemic has limited the space for action of the museums throughout the country in the last year, I think we have all seen this, the Nordnorsk Kunstmuseum has implemented a planned exhibition program. That's remarkable. And a new exhibition is scheduled to open in May. I want to say that we have to look ahead, assume that the museum will have a new professional and administrative management in the future and do what we can to build a good professional art and museum environment throughout North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1465	You talk like it's not a very critical situation right now. There's a riot in the county around the Northern Norse Museum of Art. You can choose to take over or not, but the board members will resign on a daily basis this week. It's very serious. Everyone states the same reason: there is no trust in the current Chairperson. In addition, it is sometimes almost uncertain whether the chairman is Ellingsen or Enoksen – yes, because Enoksen is the lawyer of this director and is proselytizing almost the public debate as if it were a legal case. What's happening is completely unacceptable. And then the Council of State stands here and talks like he has no political responsibility. I don't understand what the Council of State sees, as no one else in North Norway sees, which makes you so confident that this director can clean up and restore trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1472	In the cultural sector, we operate with something we know as the arm's length distance principle. I have noted that several representatives have indicated that the first thing they will do if there is a change of government, against assumption, is to remove the entire board. I am a little uncertain as to whether the representative and the Workers' Party also have this meaning. In that case, it'll be a funny situation when we discuss the arm's length distance principle. In this government and in this department under my leadership, at least we don't intend to run a doll show like that where we sit in the department and control all the museums and boards in detail. We're going to have confidence that those who are closest to this have confidence in doing the job they're doing. And yes, the board is able to deal with this situation. That's what we mean. But I think it is alarming that representatives are calling for the rejection of governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1479	Political responsibility and leadership are about actually taking political responsibility and leadership. And when you see that you have appointed people who are obviously unable to fulfill their role, it's quite obvious that you should give some political signals as to whether this goes or does not go any further. That's what the government refuses to do and just thinks that because you have to stay at an arm's length, you don't mean anything, you just have to see that things almost go down. Because that's what's happening now. I have another question. In response to a written question I received yesterday, I did not get an answer to what I asked for, but the Council of State writes that the current government has the ambition to give the museum a stronger formal anchoring in the region. I wonder what the Council of State means by that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1488	I don't think we're going to germinate by this arm's length distance principle. It's actually an important principle. The museum is organized as an independent foundation. It is the foundation’s board that has the top responsibility for the museum’s running in accordance with its purpose. The fact that there are majority decisions that a minority do not agree with cannot form the basis for the state and the ministry to intervene in this. I think it is a bit alarming that the representative from the Workers' Party believes so. A number of claims have been made in the media that I would rather have seen the representative from the north speak, such as. claims of anti-Samian attitudes on the board and that the board plans to move the entire museum to Bodø. Many of these statements have no root in reality. I think that if you contribute to the public word change, you can also contribute to the correctness of that word change and that it is in line with the facts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1498	‘The overall plan for Oslofjord has been continually exposed to what has been promised, both by the Council of State and the former. Three years have passed immediately since the government received a unanimous order from Stortinget. Recently, the Institute of Marine Research has also produced a report on the poor constitution of the fjord and proposals for action for ecosystems. Can the Council of State now promise that the plan will come before summer, so that we can see new political action for a healthier fjord and measures to improve the conditions of outdoor life?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1505	It is very important to put in place a holistic plan for Oslofjorden, which we have been working on for a long time in the Ministry of Climate and Environment, based on our academics and not least in good cooperation with other departments. The Oslo Earth is a fjord system that unfortunately has too bad a state measured by a number of different parameters. Some of it's very visible to people. For example, many who have experienced a lot of fish before — among other things. In the last few years, cod has been found to be in poor condition, such as: have led to restrictions on, for example, cod fishing, which are now entirely prohibited. Then there are changes in the fjord system that are harder for people to see, that may be about species that are not as visible to everyone, but that are definitely important in the ecosystem. The challenge is that the reason why the situation in Oslofjord is not good enough is not a single problem that can be solved by a single action in a single sector. This is about the discharge of sewage, about the run-off from agriculture, about fishing rules, about global warming, and about emerging species. The reason why I start by saying that is that there is a fairly large amount of work that needs to be done to ensure that the whole-hearted plan for the Oslofjord is good. Let me then make the conclusion, which is that the answer is yes, one can expect this plan to come before summer. One is quite inquired about the work now, and I am sure that the plan we are submitting will be good, and I hope that he will be well received. I want the Oslo Earth to be a rich and clean fjord, accessible to people, and I'm sure that the plan we're now working on, along with the valuable knowledge of the Oslo Earth that the Institute of Marine Research and others are working on, will be a very good basis for further work not only on a plan, but actually implement it, so that we can improve the environmental status of the Oslo Earth.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1516	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. We probably agree on the description of the threats to the fjord, but what's exciting to see now is, of course, what the grip of the uniform plan should contain. It's very exciting. There has been a strong report recently from marine research, which shows that we also need to set up, for example. bottom radiation during lupa. The map shows that the bottom has been plucked up almost anywhere below 60 meters deep in the Outer Oslofjord. In addition, I believe that the Council of State has seen the look-up, among other things. in the NRK, with reference to the Nature Article, where it is estimated that such radiation will lead to greenhouse gas emissions in the order of world aviation. Will the Council of State work for strongly extended protection zones, as has been done with the lobster zones, for example, so that you get good areas of life that can also be restored and in a way become feeding rooms for the rest of the fjord?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1525	The representative referred to here is two different reports and research that have come in the last few weeks. We have to be allowed to go a little bit deeper into it. But I have got it with me – at least I have got the media coverage of it – and on a general basis I want to say that this is of course something we should take seriously and go into. The fact that radiation has – or may at least have – significant negative consequences for the environment on the seabed is known in and on its own, because radiation is not available either in Oslofjord or in Norwegian waters in general. We have rules about this that are reasonably strict in international terms, but radiation is one of the things we're looking at when we're now working on a holistic plan for the Oslo Earth and future regulation, because the impact it has on bottom conditions and on ecosystems is all reason to take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1530	I also thank you for that answer, and I am very happy that the Council of State announces that he will also look at that phenomenon. I understand that it is not easy. I have been in contact with, among others. The fishing team, which of course is also concerned with these questions, but probably we cannot continue as before. So it's important that the industry too comes under some kind of restriction loop, maybe in the form of protection zones. So it's scary to hear that it's just about 30 pst. of the beach areas of Oslofjord accessible to the public. Then we're in the open air. It has gradually been built up through the very liberal development policies of the municipalities. Does the Council of State see the seriousness of this, and will he now take action to stop this – shall we call it – the lawful occupation of the shores, and to a greater extent also influence the government of state procurement of properties in order to increase the accessibility of the people most? The question is whether these questions are answered in the report?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1537	I can start by saying that the responsibility for planning and building laws lies with the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, but it is clear that what is involved in accessing outdoor life is one of the things we are absolutely looking at in the work on a holistic plan for the Oslo Earth, in good cooperation with the various departments responsible, here, as otherwise. Clearly, the Oslo Earth is one of the areas in Norway where the pressure on the beach sona has historically been the strongest, where there is a struggle for land. That's also why we have strict rules for building in the beach zone, which is initially not allowed at Oslofjorden. Once we've worked on this plan, we've got a lot of recordings. A lot of them are about outdoor life, a lot of them are about access to the beach zone or access to the fjord, and we will also come back to that when we launch the plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1547	‘The administrator of Oslo and Viken sent the municipalities a letter of expectations on 28 January this year. It states: ‘There is work to gather new knowledge about nature, based on the Nature and Description System of the Art Database in Norway [[NiN]] Can the Council of State describe the difference between the instructions of the Art Database and those of the Directorate-General for the Environment?’ [[carrying supervisor]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1554	Nature in Norway, the director of the Art Database, provides a general guide to how to map and describe all Norwegian nature using the NiN method. The guides provide guidance on how to resolve different needs and challenges associated with NiN mapping. On the other hand, the supervisors do not provide guidance on how to resolve their specific monitoring needs for each sector. The species database is clear that it is the sector that started a surveying task, which determines how the NiN mapping should be carried out in practice. It has therefore been suggested that the sectors should prepare their own mapping instructions with regard to the nature to be surveyed, adapting to the needs of the sector, where the mapping guides of the Art Database have been established. Examples of such instructions are the Directorate-General for the Environment's monitoring instructions for the mapping of nature types on land and the Directorate-General for Agriculture's instructions for environmental registrations in forests. The Directorate-General for the Environment gives a description of how to map 111 different nature types using the NiN method. The selection of nature types is based on the leadership of this in the big picture Nature of Life, and these are nature types that are either threatened, that are close to threat, or that have important tasks in an ecosystem.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1563	That was a special answer, I have to say. The whole point of the NiN system, for which the Art Database is responsible, is to produce a sector-neutral, verifiable scientific evidence that can be used by all sectors and that can be trusted in all sectors. That is the core of the Art Database's instructions. What the Directorate-General for the Environment is not the nature database's instructions; it is sector-specific for the interests of the Directorate-General for the Environment. And that's the sector-specific measure, which is now being defined, that's going to apply to everything. Does the Council agree with the description I am now giving?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1568	Not initially. There is additional information on nature types and nature type mapping, and if any information is needed, it is absolutely available, including: on the website of the Environment Directorate, which deals with the mapping of natural habitat types on land. And it is a guide who answers questions about work on the mapping of nature types according to the Environment Directorate's instructions. In addition, I would like to remember that I answered a very comprehensive question about this, it was well from the representative of Une Aina Bastholm, a few months ago, who went more deeply into the nature mapping of environmental management, and why. I have to admit that I am not thinking all the details in my head, but if the representative is interested, it is quite possible to call back and see the response I gave there in writing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1575	The government provided the big news Nature for life in 2015, and the Inner East. 294 S for 2015–2016, on page 14, says: ‘The Committee stresses that the work on defining the areas to be assessed in terms of ecological status must be based on the Nature of Norway type system of the Species database [[NiN]] It is the will of the Storting. So it's not mapped to that system. It is mapped according to the Directorate-General for the Environment, which is a sectoral survey. It may not be the sectorial mapping to be the basis for all mapping, for it must have objectivity, reprobability and confidence in all users by nature. Doesn't the Council of State agree with that clarification?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1585	I fully agree that it is important that there is broad trust in the mapping work to be carried out. Then I have to admit that I have not realized that it is not that kind of broad trust today, but if there are many people who do not trust this system, it is of course important that it comes out, and that it is said. I'm not familiar with it. I would like to refer to what I started by saying, that the NiN guides that the Art Database has should provide a general guide for how to map and describe nature using the NiN method. However, the Species database is also clear that it is the sector that has started a survey task, which determines how the monitoring will be carried out in practice, and therefore has a different mapping instructions with guidance for both nature types on land, environmental records in forests, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1592	That being the case, it is no. 2 done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-24.ana.ud263e1606	There is no record available. This way, the map is ready for processing today. Ask someone before raising a meeting. - The meeting has been cancelled.
