ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-08.ana.ud564e27	The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Akershus: Tonje Anderson Olsen For Oslo: Jon Engen-Helgheim For Vestfold: Henning Wold
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-08.ana.ud564e72	The basic law states that after a roll-call vote, the powers of the elected representatives must be approved before the Stortinget can take up its work. Paragraph 64 of the Basic Law states: ‘Selected representatives shall be provided with powers whose legality is assessed by the Stortinget.’ And that's what we're going to do now – judge the legality of the mandates, or, to put it simply, we're going to make sure that the election has taken place in the right and proper way, and that it's the right 169 representatives who have been elected. The mandate committee of the Grand Duchy is responsible for checking the choice based on reports from the County Election Boards and the National Election Board. The previous Storting chose the Preparatory Powers Committee and this committee started its work already on 23 September. On 1 October, the new Enlarged Powers Committee was elected from among the new members, and that is the position of this committee we are discussing today. 150 of the representatives of the Storting have been elected on the basis of the results of the 19 electoral districts, and 19 representatives have been elected on the equalisation mandates of the parties with a number of votes in excess of 4 pst. in the whole country as a whole, and which is under-represented among the 150 district mandates. Each electoral district shall have one equalisation mandate. The distribution of the balancing mandates is shown in Section 59 of the Basic Law and the distribution is carried out by the National Election Board, appointed by the King. At its meeting on 28 September 2021, the Governing Council allocated the 19 Cohesion mandates, and in the year's elections, the mandates were allocated as follows: Right 1 mandate, 4 terms of office of the Progress Party, 5 terms of office of the Socialist Left Party, 4 terms of office and 5 terms of office of the Left. The calculation and distribution of balancing mandates by the National Election Board is set out in Annex 1.3 to the adjustment. We are good at making elections in Norway, and it is the opinion of the Powers Committee that this year’s decision-making process was carried out in a good, reassuring and effective way. There is reason to thank all election officials, Presidency Secretaries, voters, municipal electoral boards and county electoral councils for the great effort being made in the election implementation. Nevertheless, there is always something that can be done better, and I will come back to that. It is the county electoral councils that are initially to monitor the implementation of the decision-making process based on the reports submitted to them by the municipal electoral councils. In Oslo Election District, this control is carried out by the State Manager of Oslo and Viken, and it is the reporting by the County Election Boards and the State Manager of Oslo and Viken that form the basis for the work of the mandate committee. Paragraph 55 of the Constitution provides that complaints about voting rights are to be determined by the Stortinget. The National Election Board first deals with the complaints, and then they are sent to Stortinget. Other types of complaints, i.e. complaints about election implementation, are initially decided by the National Election Board, but the Storting is free to review the decisions of the National Election Board in such complaints. The Powers Committee has not found any reason to do so. In the Grand elections of the year, two complaints have been made about the lack of voting rights. The two complaints are therefore to be decided by the Stortinget, and the Powers Committee is here in agreement with the Governing Council's assessments. One complaint is not proposed and the other one is proposed rejected. This is provided by the settings I and II. The year’s major choice was too difficult for many municipalities to implement. Many municipalities had resource challenges because of the pandemic, so they had to make a big decision in the middle of it. In addition, the voters were invited by the authorities to vote in advance. This proved to be demanding in several places, but it is the opinion of the Powers Committee that this was successful in the municipalities. There is reason to extend a great deal of thanks to the municipalities of the country. In order to facilitate the selection implementation in a pandemic situation, some simplifications were also made in the electoral implementation legislation. This is the result of the adjustment point 4.4. The turnout in the year’s major elections was 77,2 p.m. and 3 002 852 approved votes were recorded. At the time of the year's election, there were considerably more votes in the preliminary vote than in the election itself. It is probably the first time that there are more people who have voted in advance than there are voters who have voted on election days. It's going to be interesting to see how this develops in future choices. The mandate committee has not found any errors in the implementation of the year’s roll-out elections, which may have had an impact on the distribution of the 150 district mandates and the 19 cohesion mandates, and we can conclude that the 169 elected representatives have been selected correctly. This year’s electoral settlement in the Northern Electoral District was very even, so the Electoral Committee has gone extra far into the electoral process and the decision-making process for Northernland. The last district mandate in Northern Ireland, mandate No. 8, stood between SV and Right, and there were very scarce margins. The term of office was awarded to SV with only 38 votes in favour. In practice, if SV had received 38 fewer votes, or the right had received 82 more votes, the last mandate in the Nordic region would have gone to the Right and not to the SV. And if that happened, there would be a huge impact on the distribution of balancing mandates across the country. If there have been errors in the election implementation which are presumed to have had an influence on the outcome of the election and which cannot be corrected, according to the election law, the Stortinget shall declare the election in a municipality or constituency invalid and re-election must be carried out. This occurred last in Norway in 1981, when it was re-elected in Troms and Buskerud. In 1981 no cohesion mandates were yet in place, so that the re-election could only have consequences for the two electoral districts in which there was re-election. In 1981, the re-election resulted in a change in the allocation of the mandate for Buskerud. If there had been a need for re-election in an electoral district today and this had led to changes in the allocation of district mandates in that constituency, it would almost automatically also result in major changes in the calculation and distribution of the 19 cohesion mandates – for the whole country. Let me therefore underline that the mandate committee has not revealed any errors in the electoral process in Northern Ireland that may have had an impact on the distribution of district mandates in the electoral district. Let me then mention some other aspects of the election implementation. Former mandate committees have pointed out that there have been insufficient procedures for the transmission of pre-selection votes in which the voter shall vote in advance in a municipality other than the municipality of residence. These votes shall then be sent to the voter's municipality of residence and shall be counted there. In the past, there were many prior voices that did not arrive in time to join the census in the home municipality. This problem appears to be considerably smaller in the year’s elections, and there is reason to commend the Election Directorate and the Post for the actions taken to improve this. Many voters are obviously afraid that others in the polling room will see what they are voting on, and for security reasons they will then add an extra list to the list they were supposed to vote on – a blank list they would like to put on the list. When they are then stamped by the electoral officer, it is the outer list that is stamped, the blank list - and not the innermost list. The following is that there is no stamp on the innermost list, which is really the list the selector intended to vote on. The innermost list is thus rejected. This is a mistake made by the voter himself, and in any case such errors could not have consequences for the decision-making process, but the problem is so widespread that the government considers it necessary to look into it and to put in place targeted measures to reduce that type of rejection. There might be reason to believe that this by adding an extra list on the outside for the sake of security for some is left from the time when a layer of the list in the envelope, which was then added to the urn. Also in this page, many people have mentioned the confusion that exists about the rules for changing the order in the drop-down list. A check box to the list of local government and county councils means to give an extra vote, whereas a cross box on the drop-down list means the opposite: to delete. There are enough people in this room who have got cheers and feedback that “we have now voted for you and given you an extra voice”. So they've put a cross by the name in the belief that it means giving extra voice, so it means the opposite. The confusion surrounding the rules in order to change the order of the list by roll-call elections has also been raised by several county electoral boards, and a number of cases have been raised by former mandate committees. This legislation needs to be amended and the Powers Committee, in clear order, asks the Government and the Ministry to take the initiative to make changes here. This large-scale period has been announced with changes to the electoral law and, where appropriate, other laws as a result of the election committee's setting, and this must be cleaned up once and for all. The Supervisory Committee also discusses a number of other aspects of the electoral process. These are aspects such as ensuring the voting of persons living at a blocked address, matters relating to the transmission of foreign ex-voices, those relating to the electronic rating of the EVA electoral system, those relating to information on electronic election cards, those relating to the organisation of the voting room itself – and those relating to the training of electoral staff. This is also apparent from the Committee's position. Let me end by mentioning a special aspect of this year's big shot -- I think I'll almost call it a curiosity. The Constitution has no limits on the number of electoral districts in which the same person can be a candidate for major elections. It's not uncommon for the parties to have candidates who make elections in several electoral districts, but as far as we've managed to clean up, before a candidate has been elected from two electoral districts by the same election, and we've been helped by the Storting administration to check this out. But at the election of the year, Gro-Anita Mykjåland was elected on the district mandate of the Senterpartiet both from East-Agder and West-Agder. Thus, Mykjåland is historical, but I can assure the Storting that it does not mean that she gets to vote twice during the voting in Stortinget. [[Laughter]] The Constitution and the electoral law provide for this, which says that the person selected for two or more electoral districts must themselves give notice of which choice you will receive, i.e. which constituency you will represent. Gro-Anita Mykjåland has chosen to represent East Agder, while Anja Ninasdotter Abusland becomes the Central Party representative for West Agder. With this, the position of the Powers Committee has been presented, so we intend to approve all the powers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-08.ana.ud564e130	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-08.ana.ud564e138	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-08.ana.ud564e185	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
