ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e179	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of Une Bastholm shall apply for sick leave from 9 March until further notice. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Oslo, Per Espen Stoknes, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget on Tuesday 9 March under the permission of the representative of Une Bastholm, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following product representatives of Oslo are invited to meet during the period of leave: Kristoffer Robin Haug March 9th Per Espen Stoknes 10 March and until further notice
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e218	The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e223	On behalf of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Karin Andersen, Arne Nävra, Freddy André Øvstegård and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ban rubber cullet.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e228	The representative, Arne Nävra, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e233	On behalf of the representatives of Eirik Faret Sakariassen, Geir Pollestad, Siv Mossleth and myself, I would like to make a proposal to stop plans to move the control centre at the Sun.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e238	The representative of Morten Stordalen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e243	On behalf of representatives Sylvi Listhaug, Kari Kjønaas Kjos and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to ensure that Luxturna is made available to Norwegian patients who qualify for such treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e248	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e254	On behalf of the people on the Weitvet, Kalbakken and Rødtvet in the Groruddalen and the representative Petter Eide and myself, I would like to make a proposal to stop the decline of the green areas on the Bredtvet in Groruddalen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e259	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1-3 will be treated as a whole. Case No. 1–3 is the second time legal proceedings and concerns legislative acts 73–75.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e303	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e317	I would like to thank you for the opportunity to explain the status and management of the outbreak of the coronary virus. It has now been almost a year since we introduced the most radical measures in peacetime. Over this year, more than 4 million tests have been carried out, over 75 000 have been detected, 3,400 have been hospitalized, and 632 deaths have been reported. Many are affected by the virus, and more are affected by the fight against the infection. But compared to most other countries, we have now come out better. After we got control of the infection on late winter last year, we have managed to keep control, even if the infection has gone into waves. But the epidemic is unstable. Early in January, we tightened up, both at the border and by domestic measures. It gave results, and the infection fell through January. It has also likely helped to delay the spread of the more contagious virus variants in Norway, compared to other countries. In the last few weeks, the numbers have been pointing up again, and the more contagious variants are taking over as the dominant virus variant. The R's are now estimated to be 1.3. So it's too high. There have been a number of outbreaks around the country. We have seen outbreaks in, among others. Ulvik, Bodø, Harstad, Kristiansand and Oslo. We have seen outbreaks, among others. in hospitals, sports, workplaces, schools and kindergartens. In recent times, most outbreaks have been caused by the more contagious virus variant. Although the infection has increased in eight out of ten counties, some counties dominate. The last few weeks have about 70 pst. of the cases registered in Oslo and Viken. The mutated virus variant is estimated to be around 70 pst. of the infection in these areas. It has greater spread potential and is likely to give rise to a greater risk of severe progression and, consequently, of multiple hospitalisations. At the same time, we know that we have vaccines that also protect against it, and we know that it is possible to also shut it down with known measures. The infection has increased in all age groups. But it's the younger age groups that dominate. The highest rate of increase is between 13 and 19 years of age. Then the group follows 20-39 years. The rise in infection among younger age groups is not unnatural. It's for these groups we've opened up the most. Another number that fortunately increases is the number of people who have been vaccinated. There are now more than 600,000 doses of vaccine. Although it is reassuring to know that the elderly are well protected by vaccination, there are still too many who may be seriously ill with the coronary virus if the infection spreads uncontrolled. Younger age groups may also be seriously ill. Which of us has an underlying disease is not always as easy to know. We therefore see that the increase in infection leads to hospitalisation. The number of hospital inmates is back at the levels we saw in January. In particular, the hospitals in and around Oslo have experienced growth. The increase in infection is also seen in many other countries. Several countries are now introducing strong measures to avoid a powerful third wave. The new virus variants are becoming dominant, making it more demanding to keep the infection under control. It has therefore been necessary to introduce more in-depth measures in many municipalities. We have seen that many municipalities have managed to shut down the outbreaks of mutated viruses, but the situation is fragile. It's essential that we be able to keep control. If we succeed in keeping the infection low also in March and April, we can start to open up in May. We also have to deal with this counter-ground. There is a division of labour between the State and local authorities in the management of infection. The Code empowers both the municipalities and the government to adopt the necessary and proportionate infectious control measures to deal with the pandemic. Throughout the pandemic, we have had national measures, including: through requirements for establishments and limitations on how many can be grouped. National measures have always formed a floor. No municipality can have a lower level. In meeting the more contagious virus variants, it is important that all municipalities support and ensure good enforcement of national measures. But they can have a higher level. In the case of local outbreaks, more invasive local measures are often needed. The starting point has been for municipalities to adopt more stringent measures themselves. The government may also adopt measures in force in parts of the country, but this is where it is necessary to address the situation. This may be the case in an unbridled situation with a major outbreak when rapid coordination is needed between several municipalities. In the event of an outbreak, the Heads of State or Government, the municipalities concerned, the Institute of Public Health and the Directorate of Health cooperate to assess the need for action. They also consider who should decide the local measures: either the individual municipalities themselves or the government. The Government adopted, for the first time, reinforced local regional measures in the context of the Northern Follo outbreak in January. Later, the government has also adopted measures for municipalities, among others. in the West and in Westfold and Telemark. National measures have been replaced by municipal regulation when the infective situation is clarified. To date, all municipalities have agreed, or even wanted, that the government should adopt the measures and make adjustments to them in the situations in which this scheme has been used. The Government has prepared three regulatory action levels that can be introduced very quickly when the need arises: Action Level A, Action Level B and Action Level C. Action Level A has the strictest measures, while Action Level C has the least stringent measures. We listened to the criticism that the first version of the system was too complicated, and we have simplified and improved the system. We have good experience with the regional measures. There has been good cooperation with the relevant municipalities, the Public Health Institute, the Health Directorate and the State administrators. In line with advice from the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute, the government wants the locally adopted measures to work for a few days before drawing the final conclusion as to whether they are sufficient to bring the infection down. Local measures are well targeted and have a high level of legitimacy. But it is absolutely essential that they are strong enough, are well coordinated, and that they come quickly enough to shut down the outbreaks. The government will therefore strengthen local management at two points. There are some examples that it takes a little too long for municipalities to implement adequate measures and coordinate themselves. The Institute for Public Health has therefore made clear its guidance to municipalities on how to proceed in order to implement measures quickly, coordinated and with an adequate level of action. The urgent competence of the local authority to take the necessary measures is of great importance in such situations. The necessary measures can then be taken quickly by the local doctor, usually coordinated with colleagues in neighbouring municipalities. At the same time, the elected representatives of municipalities will have time to deal with what will be the more sustainable level of action. That way, you don't waste time. The testing and screening of the pathogens may take place before the infection can spread. In this way, the virus can be effectively shut down without long-term intervention. In the future, it must also be the main model for local handling. What the other government will do is to lower the threshold for when it will be relevant for the government to decide on the level of action on behalf of the municipalities. It will apply: where the urgency requires rapid and coordinated regulation, or where the decision-making processes in the municipalities take too long; where municipalities with relatively similar needs in the same region want different measures where there is doubt as to whether the level of action in an area is sufficient to reduce the infection: or if other national considerations so warrant, e.g.: the capacity of the specialist health service; Regional measures adopted by the government may therefore be relevant if infection continues to increase in those parts of the country where there is already a high level of infection. Municipalities will always have the opportunity to take decisions first. That is also what the government wants. If it becomes relevant to intervene, it will be in dialogue with the municipality, and the goal will always be that the municipality itself will get the control back as soon as it is sound. However, we are now alerting this, because we are totally dependent on the effectiveness of local measures if we are to avoid new and stringent national measures. The government’s long-term strategy outlines the choice of targets and measures for the government’s management of the covid-19 pandemic in Norway. Furthermore, we have the contingency plan which provides overall guidance for assessments and decisions of actions at national, regional and local level. We take these into account when assessing measures, and this contributes to a certain degree of predictability, even in situations of more unpredictable infection. We're now dependent on getting the spread down. An R of 1.3 over time will quickly lead to a loss of control. Calculations from the Health Directorate show that if the spread of infection continues at this level, in 75 days, at the end of May, we will be able to have 50 times more daily infections than we have today. Long before we get there, the local authorities' infection tracking system will collapse, and hospitals will have major problems providing healthcare to those who need it. The Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute advise us to follow the situation from day to day in weeks 10 and 11 to see if the relatively strict measures we have maintained nationally since January, in combination with reinforced local measures where there is an increase in infection, are sufficient to reduce the infection again. If this is not the case, the government is prepared to strengthen its national action on short notice. In order for society to be prepared for this, we have asked the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute to propose which reinforced measures should then be introduced. It is recommended that one should keep a distance of 2 metres from others and not 1 metre from today. A maximum of ten private contacts per week are recommended. For events, the number limits will be changed to 20 persons indoors with fixed assigned seating positions, for funerals the limit will be 50. The same will be true of events for those under 20 years of age, who gather only people from the same municipality. For outdoor events, the limit becomes 50 persons. Prohibitions will be introduced on indoor, organised sports and leisure activities for adults, but not for top professional athletes. Training centres and swimming pools will be closed, with the exception of: what is needed for swimming training and rehabilitation. Amusement parks and bingo halls are also closed. There will be a tipping-off across the country. It will also be stipulated that the employer should ensure that employees work from home as far as practicable. Furthermore, if this is not sufficient to reduce the spread of the new virus variant, the government will consider reintroducing the recommendations of January, including the recommendation not to have visited home for a period of two weeks, postponing all events, red levels of secondary and secondary education and digital education in universities, colleges and colleges. Although we are not introducing new national measures today, I would like to recall the recommendations that apply. Everyone, across the country, has to limit social contact. Should a meeting someone outside the household, do it preferably outdoors. Do not travel abroad. Unnecessary journeys should be avoided domestically. Anyone with a chance should have a home office. Events gathering people from several municipalities should be cancelled or postponed. If all follow these recommendations, it should be sufficient to keep the infection down. We would also recommend that those who are infected and do not have an appropriate place to isolate themselves, contact the municipality – and they can be placed in hotels. As far as Easter measures are concerned, the government comes back with concrete recommendations. How strict they become will depend on the development of infection in the near future. But we're already going to encourage Norwegians living abroad not to come home at Easter this time. It also applies to students. We also encourage the Nordics and people living in Norway not to leave the country at Easter. However, if anyone chooses to leave, they must be prepared for the government to consider extending the quarantine accommodation scheme to new groups. This means that if you are travelling abroad on a leisure trip now, you will probably have to take the quarantine at the hotel when you return home. So the government's advice to avoid all travel abroad that is not strictly necessary is still valid and is valid until 15 April. We will also consider laying down the requirement for separate bedrooms and private baths and that you must be able to stay at least two metres away from other household members. This means that one can risk fines for physical conditions that do not facilitate good quarantine in one's own home. We also recommend that digital education in universities and colleges be planned for the first week after Easter. The government prioritises children and young people. This means that children and young people should have the lowest possible response burden. We therefore want kindergarten and school life to be as normal as possible. At the same time, we must ensure a good level of infection protection adapted to the new virus variants. It's a demanding task, but it's absolutely necessary. Protecting children and young people from invasive infectious diseases also has a negative impact. We have seen an increase in infection among children and young people in recent times and many outbreaks in schools and kindergartens. It's worrying. Increased infection among children and young people calls for more stringent measures affecting others. But the government believes it is right to protect children and young people as far as possible. In Norway, we have largely managed to keep schools and kindergartens open since the spring of last year, unlike many other countries. We have made this clear, among other things. because we have created different levels of intervention for schools and kindergartens. We've got a lot of reports from kindergartens and schools that they want an update of the supervisors after the new virus variants have arrived. We have also received signals that today’s responses vary and that there are practical challenges to today’s responses. Some areas have experienced a rapid return to a red level, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. in Oslo. There is therefore reason to consider whether action levels are well adapted to a more infectious virus and the actual conditions in kindergarten and school. Now we're taking new steps to ensure the best possible combination of infectious disease protection and presence. We depend on playing teams with local authorities. So we have to involve the municipal sector in what we do. Firstly, we have entrusted the Directorate of Health, the Institute of Public Health and the Directorate of Education with the task of reviewing the infectious agents. The agencies are engaged in this process in dialogue with municipalities and the parties to the sector. Secondly, this week we will send letters to municipalities, county councils and other kindergarten and school owners on measures to ensure that children and young people can be more at school. Thirdly, we reiterate the assurance that municipalities will be compensated for additional costs of infectious diseases and for measures they are taking to ensure that the protection of infection is ensured and that as much as possible can be involved in physical education. We also stress that it is the responsibility of the municipalities that the money goes all the way to the individual kindergarten and school and thus ensures the situation for students and employees in the school. With good guidance and good facilities at the level of measures, we can better ensure the protection of infectious diseases while at the same time helping to maximise the presence in kindergarten and school, thus keeping the burden of action low for children and young people. Recreational restrictions have been an important part of the government’s management of the pandemic since March 2020. Norway is one of the countries in Europe with the highest levels of entry regulations and quarantine rules throughout the pandemic. When the United Kingdom announced the mutated virus variant, the government quickly established specific entry and testing rules for travellers from there. In addition, at the end of January, the government further tightened the access of non-residents to entry into Norway. In principle, only foreigners residing in Norway are now allowed to enter. Derogations are still made for groups deemed to have a particular connection with Norway or an important purpose of their visit, including close family members, non-residents in critical social functions, non-residents in the transport sector and health professionals from Sweden and Finland. The duration and details of the restrictions on entry are continuously assessed in line with the development of infection and up to alternative and less invasive measures. It is important that these restrictions do not apply beyond what is necessary. The strict restrictions on entry imposed from 29 January were necessary to limit the risk of contamination of imports into Norway. In order to limit imports, the measure has been effective. Import infection rates are now low, although infection in Norway is increasing. At the same time, restrictions have led to a very difficult situation for some workers working in Norway and living in other countries. They have not gotten to work, and they have lost their income. From midnight on Monday 1 March, we eased the restrictions by opening up the possibility for day commuters from Sweden and Finland to return to work in Norway under a strict testing and control regime. At the same time, many are still subject to the ban, and not least now that restrictions on entry seem to be able to continue for a while. Many of these have earned rights in popular fear. In view of this, the government considers it necessary to provide an alternative income hedge to those affected. The Government proposes a new compensation scheme based on the sickness pay scheme. It makes it possible to set up a system relatively quickly. The performance shall cover 70 pst. on the basis of sickness benefit, which is approximately the same compensation rate as the worker would have received if they were covered by the temporary leave rules. The government proposes that employers be responsible for the advance of benefits and then receive reimbursement from the social security of the entire amount. It shall apply from 29 January at the time of the introduction of the entry ban and shall be granted for the duration of the ban on workers. The government will quickly return to the Stortinget with proposals for legislation and a detailed description of the scheme. Recreational restrictions also have a significant impact on Norwegian enterprises that rely on foreign labour, and restrictions on entry may have an impact on the development of the Norwegian economy. These impacts are likely to increase if the restrictions on entry last for a period of time. The government therefore launched on 20 February an application-based scheme for exemptions from the restrictions on the entry of workers not already covered by existing derogations. The scheme will not address the business needs of people for normal work. The risk of opening up so many is too big. The scheme initially applies to a limited group of workers considered as strictly necessary to avoid cessation of activity. These are persons with technical competence who carry out work related to machinery and technical equipment and who have a working or professional relationship with the applicant undertaking. The scheme is managed by the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs. They deserve a big thank you for taking on a whole new task quickly. By 5 March, it had been adopted in excess of 1000 decisions in the scheme, including some 500 decisions on granted entry. The government is now considering some extensions of the scheme to include other groups of workers after an overall assessment of the infectiveness situation and business needs. The main priority of the government in the work on vaccines is early vaccination of the entire population. Due to limited access initially, we have prioritised hospital residents and the elderly with the greatest risk of dying of covid-19. There are errors when it is produced as if Norway were located after other European countries in terms of vaccination. As you know, we are covered by the EU vaccine strategy, and we are allocated doses of the same key as the other countries. At the moment, statistics show that Norway is among the leading European countries to vaccinate according to the number of doses allocated. The groups 75 to 84 years of age and healthcare professionals are now vaccinated. We've set over 600 000 doses. The Public Health Institute has recommended a modest geographical redistribution of vaccines to Oslo, Fredrikstad, Sarpsborg, Moss and Lørenskog. It is believed that Oslo prioritises the districts of Stovner, Alna, Grorud, Bjerke, Søndre Nordstrand and Old Oslo, which have had the highest infection pressure over time. At the same time, a number of other changes are being made which will have a much greater impact on the distribution and vaccination rate in municipalities. Firstly, the Swedish Institute of Public Health is moving from distributing the vaccines according to the number of inhabitants who have over 65 years of age to a distribution according to the number of inhabitants they have over 18 years of age. This means that municipalities with a younger population will receive a higher number of doses. Secondly, the AstraZeneca vaccine is now also recommended for people over 65 years of age. It is based on new knowledge of the efficacy of vaccines. This means that many in the top priority groups can be vaccinated two to five weeks earlier than expected. After professional input from the Institute of Public Health, the government has decided that the interval between dose one and two from the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine can be extended from three to six weeks. The Institute of Public Health will come to a final professional conclusion in a short time. The Public Health Institute will also assess whether the interval should be extended beyond six weeks. With a longer vaccine interval, several may receive the first dose earlier. The Public Health Institute also looks at whether the interval can be further extended. The most important thing is that vaccine access is increasing. Now we receive about 100,000 vaccine doses a week. At the end of March, we expect about twice as much. In April, May and June, deliveries increase even more. We therefore expect a significant increase in the number of vaccine doses in the next few months. That gives hope. Probably new vaccines are coming, too. The product authorities started the authorisation process for CureVac and Novavax in February. On 11 March, the Janssen vaccine may be approved. This is a one-dose vaccine that will help to further increase the vaccination rate beyond springtime. We are now expecting all adults to have received a vaccine offer within or during the summer. A few European countries are impatient and will go their own way to get more vaccines now and in the future that can protect against new virus variants. All approved vaccines available are currently used and it is therefore not possible to acquire multiple doses in the short term of this type of vaccine. Norway, together with other countries, also builds a readiness for existing vaccines to lose their power against the new mutated viruses. Therefore, through EU cooperation, we are now concluding agreements on future vaccine deliveries for vaccines that can be adjusted to combat new mutations. We've also invested 200 million. kr in the vaccine cooperative CEPI to intensify the development of vaccines against future mutations of the virus. Since March last year, we have said that we should have financial measures for as long as we have infectious diseases and that these will be adapted to the disease situation and the level of infectious diseases. As recently as two weeks ago, the Stortinget discussed government proposals for the extension and adjustment of a number of support schemes in response to the pandemic. The background to the proposals was inter alia: the evolution of the infectiveness situation and the uncertainty about the further course. Our companies can be sure that, as long as we have direct or indirect orders to shut down businesses, we will have schemes to compensate companies and help prevent unnecessary bankruptcy. Extensive economic measures have been put in place for business. The broad business compensation scheme has been extended by June. So far, almost 9 billion have been disbursed. kr through the scheme to approximately 34 000 enterprises. Under the Loan Guarantee Facility, 11 billion have been paid. kr, mainly for small and medium-sized enterprises. There is also a system in place in which municipalities can pay aid adapted to local circumstances, for example: to hard hit travel establishments or restaurants. It's now set at 1.8 billion. kr to this scheme. Several of the financial measures are designed to automatically increase the amount of aid as the activity of the economy slows down. Therefore, if the situation worsened during the weeks and months we now go into, support for those affected will be increased. On Friday we presented proposals for a new wage support scheme, which is a follow-up to a request decision from Stortinget. The scheme has been developed in cooperation with the social partners. It is also in line with the government’s strategy for Norway’s way out of the crisis – creating more, including more. The scheme shall assist those who have been hard hit for a long time and have had to permit their employees, those who have a high level of turnover and will need time to recover from the activity. With this scheme, enterprises may withdraw the permits that may prepare for the reopening of the establishment, even if the revenues are not yet in place. In this way, they will be able to be able to deliver their goods and services more quickly on the day the customers are back. In other establishments, there may be a good opportunity to resume training and development leave in the enterprise pending the commencement of the activity. Overall, the scope of economic measures is extensive and is widely fanned. The government will do what is needed to get the best out of this crisis. On the way out of the pandemic, the effort must be shifted towards increased activity and migration. Then the most important contribution we can make to growth in the private sector will be that we reduce the infection and reopen society and phase out public support schemes. In the context of the revised national budget 2021, the Government will present to the Storting a reassessment of the financial instruments. In the future, therefore, we need to be prepared for both good and bad news as a result of uncertainty about vaccine deliveries and the spread of the mutated virus. The overall response and the composition of local, regional and national responses need to be adjusted on an ongoing basis in line with the evolution of the pandemic in Norway. In this work, the priority of the government will be children and young people first, so jobs. If we can keep the R under 1 through March and April, in May we'll be able to take the first steps towards a more normal everyday life. Basic measures such as keeping hands clean, keeping at home in case of disease, keeping away, infective quarantine and isolation should probably be maintained for a long time. All measures need to be adapted and assessed on the basis of an overall assessment of both the positive and the negative effects of the measures. The measures for the protection of infectious diseases shall be balanced and sufficient to provide the necessary infectious effects, but not more restrictive to the population and to the establishments or longer than is necessary. This becomes even more important when the pandemic goes towards the end. The measures should be local rather than national where possible, and the measures should have the lowest possible burden of action. At the same time, it must be overall that the pandemic in Norway is under control. The Directorate of Health and the Institute of Public Health are now working to see how a gradual degression can take place. This is what the government will come back to in the last half of March. I asked to make this statement in order to give the Storting an update on where we are now. So the situation is not clear today. Over the past few weeks, we have seen a sharp spread of the mutated virus variant and increasing hospitalisations. It's serious. We have another steep hill in front of us. But if we can also do that, the goal of a more normal everyday life is within reach. If we can control the infection in March and April, we can start to open up in May. Many municipalities have implemented strict local measures in the last few weeks. We don't know the effect of these yet. Therefore, it is now too early to resort to stricter national measures. Instead, we further reinforce the model of local action. We're going to have to shut down outbreaks locally even faster, even more definitely. If we succeed, there will be no need for new national measures. If we don't succeed, we're going to have to tighten in fast. I have notified what measures will then come, and am asking everyone to prepare. Whether it be local or national, I ask today for a final effort – that together we also go up this hilltop, hoping that it is the very last one, and that this time we finally reach the top and can open society more in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e518	The called alternate for Oslo, Kristoffer Robin Haug, has taken the seat. The President will now, according to Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure § 45, open a short comment round limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and final statements from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e525	Thank you to the Prime Minister, who will come to Stortinget and explain. I think that's a wise thing. There have been images of the situation we are in, and the Prime Minister stayed at it at the end. The Health Minister said last summer that we were now on the top of the mountain and were going down, and that going down was as heavy as going up. It was a picture. Now we're going to the new peaks – we're probably more in a Norwegian mountain landscape where we go up and down. I'll be careful to say that we only have one top left when we have this mutated virus. I think it was an unexplained statement the Prime Minister gave, because what she really says is that the situation is very serious – the R-number of 1.3, we can get the 50 in cases ahead – but she will wait another few weeks to see if new measures are needed. There is a very great responsibility on the municipalities with this line that is now being laid up. The municipalities are the advanced position in the defence against the pandemic. I still think it is unclear how the Prime Minister will assess whether we are on the right track for a week or two. It assumes that we also have close contact about it, because it is then about very interventional measures that come on the other side. The picture we can imagine is that we have two very demanding months ahead of us, perhaps the most difficult months until now, where, in the words of the Prime Minister, the numbers of infections can come out of control. I think we should focus more on it than think that in May we're really through, because then there's enough vaccines. This virus has been unpredictable and may still be. That is why there is reason to pay great attention to those who are now affected by this crisis, to the vulnerability of society. The Corona has proved to be a magnifying glass of vulnerability in our society that was there before the Corona – those who lose work, those who see life's work go down, and all those who also struggle with psychic aspects of being at home and not getting into social communities. On Sunday I realized that the main message to the Prime Minister was to say that she was proud of people. I agree. Everyone who has met this crisis has supplied it, but also the sum of people. What we've seen is what the Norwegian community has provided in defense against this pandemic. We have strong hospitals, we have strong and competent care for the elderly, we have municipalities that can take responsibility, and we also have a big deal that can make decisions that are needed. Now there's going to be a commission that's going to give us an assessment, and today we're discussing social security here in Stortinget. I just want to add that a lesson for future preparedness is that we need to invest in upgrading this community, not privatising and breaking it up, not creating gaps in the care of the elderly that allow us to get infected there because we have too poor coverage, bet on a serious working life and not least bet on the social partners – part of the community we have reason to be proud of. We can be proud of people, the question is whether we can be proud of politics in the summary. I still believe that one of the reasons we have received these mutated variants is that we have not had control of the import infection. For too long there was too little control, so that finally a drastic action had to be taken to: close borders. So that's the question of vaccines. There I would say that we from the Labour Party support that we are part of European cooperation. I encourage the Minister of Health to be fully open about those agreements, so that people know the reason why we've chosen what we've done, and that they can also assume that the government will do everything it can within the agreements to secure Norway enough vaccines fast enough to win this race against the pandemic. So in a situation where we can expect, and the Prime Minister says it can be, dozens of times in the number of people infected, it's a matter of concern to me, and it's the intensive capacity. That was a critical point when the pandemic came. A year later, we're told that one of our finest emergency hospitals, Ahus, is detonated in intensive capacity, and that's before these numbers rise. Why hasn't happened more in a year with that? If there's the situation in Aarhus, close to very heavy urban areas in Oslo, it could also be like that in other hospitals. Many are impatient – those waiting for the vaccine, those waiting and expecting intensive capacity, and those in need of help. My last point is to say that this pandemic is not over when the last vaccine is set. We expect vaccines, but there's a vulnerability out there that someone when I visited the city of Stovner the other day, summed up as the pandemic after the pandemic, that's mental health and the unrest people have attached to it. There we have to rust up the capacity. I assume that future crisis packages for a fair crisis policy also place great emphasis on enabling municipalities to provide that help, because it will be needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e548	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for a good and clear presentation. It's been a year since the pandemic came to Norway. The Norwegian people have handled the pandemic well, better than all, most countries. When we shut down a year ago, we knew little about the effects and the measures that were effective. It made it a rough and massive shut-down of society. Now we know more, and the measures are more targeted. I feel that the government now comes with a warning and at the same time a carrot. If we can get control of local outbreaks, we don't have to shut the whole community down. If we are unable to do so, it will be clearly communicated which national measures may be necessary. I think it was very clarifying. Here's a warning about what can happen if you don't get the infection down. At the same time, municipalities have shown that they can manage local outbreaks. Take our joint representative, Terje Breivik, who sits in the hall, from Ulvik, where they got a lot of infection. There they got control. It cost a lot, but they got control. It shows that municipalities are adults and good at addressing this challenge. So I support the strategy that gives municipalities the responsibility to address their own municipality, while at the same time signaling the government's willingness to take more stringent measures if this does not work. But we all have a responsibility, each of us, to prevent the situation from coming out of control. With an R-number of 1.3, if we don't get control, at the end of May we will have up to 40,000 infections every day, and it's so serious that we all have to take that responsibility now to reverse the infection. Financial measures have been discussed many times by Stortinget, and most of them are now in place. A few new measures are announced here that are good for those who commute to work in Norway. That's good. Then it is also announced that the vaccine strategy will change somewhat, and that more people will receive the first vaccine dose by extending the interval between the first and second doses. At the same time, there is uncertainty about how many vaccine doses Norway will receive, but we know that new vaccines will be approved. Janssen/Johnson & Johnson have been approved in the United States and will be approved in Europe, and I have seen figures showing that Norway will have access to several million doses from there. It's a one-time vaccine. So there's light in the tunnel. At the same time, there is a clear and clear statement that says from what the stand is now, which says very clearly that one has confidence in the municipalities, in the local government, that they should be able to strike back when the infection comes out of control, or make sure that it does not come out of control. So I'm very pleased with this statement. I believe that it gives us all something to work against, namely to prevent new national measures, to make sure that we can meet in the summer brighter, that we can hope for a more normal summer – of course with precautions, and of course to take care of those who are struggling with the pandemic, even after the pandemic is over. All in all, this is a good explanation because it carries a clear bid, something the Storting has previously called for, what is the strategy if we don't get control, and it's very clear: it's going to be national action if you don't get the infection down. But the municipalities now have a huge job, and I trust Norwegian municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e565	I want to start by thanking the Prime Minister for the presentation. There is no doubt that people are tired and tired of home offices, that they miss family and friends, that the loneliness of the elderly is great, that many have now been isolated for nearly a year, and that children and young people are struggling with mental health. It is also alarming warnings that come from professionals within that field. That's why I think it's good for the government to signal that you want to make it easier for children and young people to be more present at school and in kindergartens, that's necessary. This pandemic has had great consequences for many. Many lose their jobs, many are licensed, some industries are hit hard, whether it's the travel industry, the aviation industry, restaurants, pubs, outdoors, maritime industry, shops – to name a few. The Prime Minister says that you can trust to get help if it is shut down. So I guess the experience for some industries has been that it's very little to pick up from the compensation schemes that have been adopted. One example of that is those who own rather than rent and lease, they come very badly out of the compensation scheme. The Progress Party is disappointed that the Labour Party and the Government parties do not support our proposals to equalise it. We expect that in the event of new national measures, new restrictions, they will be followed up quickly, while at the same time as economic compensatory measures. People are impatient and reported that the vaccination is running late. We have recorded that the government has invested all cards in the EU and that countries that have made agreements with pharmaceutical companies alone, such as the United Kingdom, the United States and Israel, are far ahead of the EU countries and Norway. People ask, why didn't Norway do like them? Why is Norway not involved in the cooperation that we now see coming between Israel, Austria and our neighbour Denmark? How does the government now plan for the future? It has been decided in Stortingen that we should facilitate the preparedness and production of medicinal products in Norway, because we had a situation where we were vulnerable before this pandemic when it came to some important and vital drugs. You ask yourself what the government is waiting for. Curida in Hedmark has long said that they are ready to take a job. Yesterday we also saw in the news that you are ready in Sandefjord with a large room where you want to get started on vaccine and medicine production. We notice that the government takes vaccine doses from district municipalities to give to Oslo and some surrounding municipalities. We understand, of course, that many people react to it, that you have to wait longer in other municipalities, and that vulnerable groups are worried about it. We also record that one of Israel’s covid-19 heads is ready for what Norway should do, they are far ahead of schedule: first vaccinate the elderly, then the vulnerable younger ones, and then consider administering vaccines to cities with high infection rates. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: what does it mean to add a basic vaccine to the municipalities based on the population and the number of people over the age of 18? What will this have to do with the future distribution of vaccines in Norway? The pandemic has shown that Norway has an integration problem, particularly in the east of Oslo. We use millions of info in different languages, we record people refusing to test, and we realize that many people don't realize the seriousness – or they don't care. The latter was documented, among other things. on Dagsrevyen. This is going to affect us all. Now we're all tired and tired, so now it's important that all the people in Norway have to help us do things to re-open society. We think it is good to keep this at a local level, that local authorities can adapt the measures to what is needed, and that not everything should be corrected according to the situation in Oslo and other municipalities where there is a lot of infection. And we take note that the government wants a lower threshold to intervene with municipalities if there is a need for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e584	I must admit that I was a little surprised at this presentation. I have to thank for it, of course, but I was a little surprised, because it's very little new here. This is a statement of things that we have all known for a long time, and the prime minister's main conclusions are that the situation is unclear. Yeah, we know that. That it can also become more serious, we know that. And then the conclusion is that we have to wait. So I was a little surprised by the sudden need to orientate the Storting. But I agree with the Prime Minister that we must trust the municipalities. That's something this pandemic has really shown: how strong and good local democracy we have, and how good municipal doctors we have. And what the prime minister says is that now they get even more responsibility in the future. Then it's important that they also get the support they need. The centre party does not disagree that we need to strengthen local action and increase the possibility of regional action. The government has chosen to increase vaccination in Oslo by giving vaccines to the rest of the country. It's a strategy that the Center Party takes note of. However, it is also necessary to change the strategy for the vaccination itself by increasing the interval between the first and second doses of the vaccine. It's been asking for a long time, and we think it's important to get done, and it's important that it is done quickly, because it's the only thing that can speed up vaccination in the critical period now in March and April. Cooperation with the EU has contributed to late vaccination in Norway and the government has rejected all attempts at transparency on Norwegian vaccine strategy. I can't. It's seaworthy to have different opinions about the vaccine strategy, but there must be full openness and honesty about the choices that were made. Therefore, the Senterpartie asks: What vaccine companies did the government talk to before going in cooperation with the EU? How hard did the government try to get its own deal? Did Norway give any attractive offer to the vaccine companies, or did they give up before they got so far? If there were conversations with the pharmaceutical company, who concluded these talks – was it Norway, or were those companies? And has Norway been active at all to influence the EU to conclude purchase agreements faster and to be more forward-looking than the EU proved to be? We simply need transparency about how the government went forward, what they chose away, and how active they were. We cannot live with any edited openness about the vaccine strategy. At a time when the government almost has an information monopoly, there must be full openness and full honesty about this. Now, as I said, the vaccine strategy is differentiated, and the Central Party believes that the further strategy on action should take account of Norway’s differences – we live and live differently. Now we have to take that into account. So there are 227 municipalities in Norway that haven't had more than 50 infected people in the last year. For them, the situation is quite different from that of Oslo and many of the largest cities around the country. It is possible that this is also why the government will now await national measures. I think that in that case is a wise strategy, because I believe that there is a need to assess the level of action differently in the different parts of the country. Paradoxically, some parts of the national strategy have so far led to stricter conditions for, for example: children and young people in district municipalities with little infection than in Oslo with much infection. The reason for this is that you have allowed e.g. fights and games in children’s and youth’s sport, but a border has been set within the municipality. And in many of the municipalities I know from my own state, there is only one sport. And when you have one sports team, you don't get to play any games, because you're not allowed to cross the municipal border. This is an example of the need to take account of local needs and measures. Then I also want to mention one thing that is not mentioned, and it surprises me that the Prime Minister does not mention it, and that is the intensive capacity. There has been a recurring question from Stortinget's side throughout the last year. The centre party and several opposition parties have constantly raised the need to increase intensive capacity in Norway, and where on the rim we were last year, and how much need there has been to do something about it. And now, when you're so concerned with both what municipalities are going to do, and what each of us has to do, the government also has to comment on what they intend to do about the intensive capacity of the largest Norwegian hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e599	On Sunday, the Prime Minister gave a speech to the nation to inform them that the measures came on Tuesday. On Tuesday, the Prime Minister will give a presentation to the Stortinget to inform them that the measures can be taken later. I think I'd prefer to give a little bit of advice to the government's information strategy, and that's keeping the word set down. There may be too many speeches and presentations. It may be appropriate to reduce the amount of words in order to ensure that the most important words are reached. This statement, which I should of course like the other parties should thank, is part of the strange thing about the Prime Minister's relationship to the Storting throughout this crisis, where she sometimes comes here to explain and invite to the discussion, and at other times can advertise quite drastic measures only in the face of the press. It's in contrast – we've pointed this out many times before, but I want to point it out again – to how many other countries do it, for example. in Denmark, where there are negotiations and debates on both the closure and opening of society. I think it gives you a healthy openness and dissent that we might also need. In Norway, the government has chosen to decide alone on infectious diseases. It also means that the government has to take responsibility alone and that the extent to which the size of the population is to enter into the assessments that are now being carried out in the context of the specific disease protection measures is limited. That being said, we are in a situation where the population is tired. If it is possible, as the Prime Minister says, to wait with national measures, it is wise to do so. It is good – and a main goal we believe it must be for a possible new wave – that we are able to do everything we can to protect children and young people, keep schools and kindergartens open, protect children’s leisure activities. So there are some things that the government needs to answer for, and I also want to address the question of intensive capacity. We've seen the news from Ahus about the blasted capacity. It's not a new discussion, because the discussion about the capacity of Ahus has been there, not just through the pandemic, but for years. The opposition parties and the SV have also submitted proposals on several occasions during the last year on what should be done to equip our hospitals and improve their intensive capacity. It must be legal – and I think it is natural for the Prime Minister to come back to that in his final comment – to ask why the government has not done more to ensure that the intensive capacity at the entrance of any new wave is significantly stronger than it has been in the pandemic. This should also be an opportunity to address clearly the social crisis that many are facing. It is necessary to see the measures for the protection of infectious diseases and the measures for us to pursue a fair crisis policy, together, because they are linked. Every time you have to go to new shut-downs, it has consequences — consequences in terms of permissiveness and unemployment, consequences in terms of isolation and solitude. That's why it's in place today to point out that the government has been, over and over, far too weak to act in its meeting with the social and economic downturn in connection with the pandemic. There is a need – I would appeal to the government to do so – to improve the living conditions of those who have now been outlawed and unemployed for a very long time. One concrete way we can do it is to increase the daily allowance somewhat, so that those who have been on the perm – over 20,000 completely since March last year – can have a little more to live on. Similarly, we now need a reinforced crisis package for mental health, so that we can reach out a hand to the many, children and young people who are in a state of health, so that we can equip mental health protection in a situation that we know requires so many, not least our young people who are in a tough situation. I want to challenge the Prime Minister on this and on the intensive capacity, besides, of course, to encourage us all to follow the advice that now applies, so that we can get through this together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e616	Thank you to the Prime Minister for a thorough briefing. There is little doubt that Norway, as a nation and community, has so far treated the coronary crisis well, healthably, which is the most important, as one of the countries with fewer infections, and with a health care system that has had the capacity to receive those who have been seriously ill. Economically, there has been better than fear of society and business as a whole. In general, there is every reason to commend the Prime Minister and the Government for the way in which they and the top trade unions they have consulted, the Institute of Public Health and the Directorate of Health, have used the powers of the Stortinget to grant them through the public health sector. We know that they also experience the balance between restrictions and people's needs for work, school, activities, social contact and freedom in everyday life on one side and health concerns and spread infection on the other, as both demanding and difficult. We also know that they and their members in the state institutions work more or less 24-hourly for the time being to try to be in front of the development of infection. As a society, we can also be grateful for the fact that we have a very important parliament, which is both able to play with the government when necessary, and is constructively critical when the Stortinget finds it necessary. When the Prime Minister now asks for a final test of power, that we go up this hill together in the hope that it is the very last one, and that this time we finally reach the peak, there is a heavy responsibility on the Stortinget too – that we also underline the serious infection situation, which unfortunately is not yet under control, but also hope, which after all is right around the corner, perhaps everything in May. The opposition party can rightly claim that it is easy for a parliamentary leader in a government party to co-operate with the Stortinget and the opposition so that we, as a society, pass through the force test in spite of the fact that we have delegated wide-ranging powers to the government. Yes, of course, the Left and I have a greater loyalty to various measures taken by the government than the opposition party. I would still like to remind you of what I said just six weeks ago, the last Prime Minister briefed the Storting on the pandemic: ‘I myself see with great joy that the grandchildren in Ulvik live almost normal, carefree and free lives, even though we are in the middle of a pandemic.’ Understood: At home in peaceful Ulvik, we hardly notice that there is any Korona crisis out there in the world. And if I'm going to be so indiscriminate, I was at the government meeting the same time very critical, not to say 'dead again', the new measures the government introduced at the time, which meant that, for example, was not advised to organise outdoor ski competitions, measures which there and there appeared to be difficult to understand and explain afterwards. In retrospect, I have been fully aware of the lack of carelessness of the covid-19 virus, and that it may be wise to have an humble approach to different measures, including for a covid-19 virus. I myself was one of 500 homes in Ulvik that ended up in 14 days of quarantine because of infection in a close family. I was also able to see for myself how different the infection happened, when someone hardly noticed that they had the corona, while others, quite young, were so ill that they had to go to hospital. As you know, it was the British variant that dominated Ulvik. On the positive side, I had orchestral space for choir impressively a small municipality, in close interaction with national health authorities and good neighboring municipalities, including Big Brother Bergen, dealing with such a dramatic situation with 134 infected by 1,060 and half the population of quarantine more or less overnight. Although Ulvik and those who work in the municipal health service there are very special to me, I am overestimated that all the other municipalities had done, and do the same if necessary. So when this pandemic is over, there's little doubt that the municipalities can also thank you very much. They prove to be trustworthy and responsible then to the degrees and is a guarantee that we get together this – hopefully – last, steep ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e638	I want to start by thanking the Prime Minister for the presentation. It's a hilltop we're going to go over, and we all understand that it can get steep, but it's unfortunately necessary to last a little bit longer. We are many who are tired and tired of the consequences that the pandemic creates, that's absolutely true, but the Prime Minister also puts the right words on how many feel right now. The human sides of the pandemic are obvious and visible. There are many who have to bear a huge cost. I think of everyone who is at risk of losing their job and income, and I don't least think of everyone who experiences loneliness and different forms of mental stress as a result of all the restrictions. It's a high cost, but we have to do what's necessary now. We have to take another thank you, unfortunately. Assessment of the level of action, what gives the best effect, and what instruments are appropriate to use when, of course, demanding assessments. Norway has so far managed this pandemic better than most countries. First of all, we can thank the Norwegian people for that. It is also clear to everyone that the government actively assesses and adjusts measures along the way, as necessary, and – not least – this openness from the government can envy us by many other countries. The policy assessments are based on technical advice and recommendations, on national and regional status assessments. Today, I want to pay tribute to everyone who works in the Institute of Public Health and in the Directorate of Health, and to everyone who contributes to providing a professional basis for important decisions. I don't think anyone takes this easy, on the contrary. Things happen quickly, and strict and interventional measures are not suggested with a light heart. In the trust society of Norway, it is important that bans and injunctions are not the only solution. At the same time, the authorities shall provide advice, guidance and appeal to personal responsibility. Here our health authorities are exemplary. It is a great responsibility to manage such trust, whether you are a member of the government, a major representative or a trades union bureaucrat, who works day and night to help the Norwegian people out of the pandemic. I think afterwards will show that much has been done right through this crisis. Yes, it's up and down with measures, ringing systems, color codes and everything. Something could probably have been done differently; we're going to discuss that in time. The government was already at the beginning of the pandemic open to making mistakes, but basically, and thanks to the will of the Norwegian people, we are handling this pandemic well compared to many other countries. We have at the top of the whole strong economy that makes it possible to take targeted action, not least to secure the income of people who are being outsourced or losing their jobs, or to business owners who are struggling with these pandemics. But it costs, and then I think not only of the money, but of the human sides: loneliness, frustration, loss and sleep. There's a tough process, this, there's no doubt about it, but we have to take another skipper roof. Vaccines are coming and several new vaccines are approved and can be put into service. It gets better, it gets brighter times, but more than ever we have to take care of each other, show some extra patience, support those who struggle with loneliness and discouragement, and not least show a little extra care for all our children and young people. We put life and health first, and we're proud of that. Then we have to take the fight as we do now, also the last hilltop – together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e657	We in the Greens would like to thank the Prime Minister for the presentation and are pleased that the government today is warning that it wants to keep the response burden on children and young people low. For children and young people, among those who have been hit hardest by the coronary apathy. There have been some disturbing reports about the mental health of young people lately. According to a study by the Red Cross, a whole 55 pst feel. Of those between 16 and 24 years of age, looking up at the rest of the population in terms of one of three. Figures from the Public Health Institute confirm the findings. The proportion that feels lonely is highest among those between 18 and 24 years of age, especially in places like Oslo and Bergen, where the coronary measures have been the most severe. Almost twice as many young people over the age of 75 now feel lonely, and it's serious. A few weeks ago, 245 psychologists pushed out warning of a sharp increase in severe, extensive and life-threatening mental health disorders after the coronary apathy, such as eating disorders, psychosis, suicide problems and increased school absence. The government's aim in the Corona strategy is that children and young people should have as low a burden of action as possible, but we in the Greens still believe that children and young people are becoming the biggest losers in this pandemic, and we are seriously concerned that the government does not seem to take on sufficiently the great psychological burden that children and young people are now facing. Vulnerability under the corona can't only be about how easily one becomes coronaryally ill. It also needs to be about how vulnerable a person is to mental disorders which, in the worst case, can follow one through a lifetime, and which are reinforced by isolation and difficult conditions at home. Therefore, when the government determines that priority should be given to children and young people, it must also be reflected in the vaccine strategy. Therefore, the Green Party believes that once the most vulnerable groups are vaccinated, the government should consider giving priority to young people and young adults in front of those of us who are healthy adults in the 30s, 40s and 50s. This also makes sense from a purely infectious point of view. Young people are a group that we know needs extra contact with peers. So they also meet many. In week 8, the Public Health Institute reported that the highest number of cases of infection relative to the population was between 13 and 19 years of age and 20–39 years. This is also an important measure for teachers and other employees at the places of study and in higher education. After all, they have everything to do with being in contact with this group. Today, the NRC reports that young people are becoming seriously ill in Bodø, which is currently affected by the South African virus mutation. Therefore, when it comes to giving priority to vaccines in the future, I hope that it is not only geography but also the health status of different parts of the population that are being taken into account. We're in this pandemic together. We in the Greens therefore support the government that Norway should not snort in line by hijacking vaccines that would otherwise have gone to more vulnerable areas. We must not believe that Norway is better protected if we allow the virus to rage in vulnerable countries and produce new mutations, which come back to us. International solidarity is our best protection. Nationally, too, we depend on the spirit of virtue. Then we cannot suspect or attack other groups or other parts of the country. We in the political parties have a special responsibility here, and I hope we all take this into account in the time that is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e671	Many are now on the verge. In order for us to get through this, the community has to set up. What we don't need are several metaphorical motivational talks like election campaign promotions from the Right. What we need are crisis management and response to the crisis intensifying the differences. In the Prime Minister’s New Year speech, Erna Solberg thanked the EEA Agreement for accessing vaccines. As VG writes today, countries with their own agreements are now far ahead of vaccination. Does the Prime Minister see that Norway does not have naïve faith that so-called free trade solves everything and that the crisis shows an increased need for self-rescue? The welfare state is our main emergency centre. The government has made it appropriate in its welfare. There have been too few bed places in health care, and in a year with pandemics, the government has provided exactly zero new intensities. Trustees of Ahus, who have a blasted intensive capacity, call it a chronic crisis, announced for many years. While 200,000 are unemployed, many have experienced increased workload. The government’s policy and the pandemic are on a staff who were too weak initially — in health services, in kindergartens and in schools. Anti-infectious measures to provide a safe welfare offer also provide added pressure. People are told to stay at home – more with mental distress or domestic violence. This can be found in the meeting with others in the education and health services, and assistance can be provided. Then the well-being employees need time and profit. In concrete terms, Red has proposed an additional crisis billion to increase manpower and to strengthen well-being. The Korona crisis has shown us that the schemes for the unemployed were too poor. Red will strengthen our common safety net. When benefits have to be enhanced when unemployment increases, they were initially too weak. The increased daily allowance level must be sustained. Djevat Hisenai of the West Confederation said clearly: ‘Hotel and restaurant staff are completely dependent on today’s corona agenda. Now they are free to live below the poverty line.’ The reduced income requirement for day-to-day pay must be maintained, including for those in small job fractions and with a looser link to the labour market, and no one should lose any day-to-day or work-to-work allowance without a job offer, education or decent income. The limit on how much you can work without losing your daily allowance has been increased temporarily to 60 pst. The limit must be up to 80 p.m., so that the permit does not decline to guards in fear of losing the daily allowance. We must prevent employers from replacing permanent employees with temporary ones. We've all seen how right-wing politicians have tried to make the pandemidebat an anti-Oslo case. Oslo people have been hit hard by what many others in this country have been hit by the last year – closure and unemployment. Many live in straits. While the government opened up import infection, the taxi drivers in our city drove the one trip they could get. While the government gives property barons more for less, employees in well-being work harder without getting anything more than applause. The government has a great responsibility. If the Prime Minister sticks to a political leadership that prioritises circus in the media rather than dealing with the crisis we're facing, that's the government's problem. But it is the country's problem if the government in practice opposes the management of the pandemic. The majority must be given clear answers to how the government will solve the problems for people in Oslo who are severely affected by the crisis, for the unemployed in culture and in the food industry and for others who have been hit. The government has been behind in every turn and has had too weak measures when they first arrive. Now it's time for the government to actually do something for those who have the worst money in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e689	This may be the basis for nuances in the last article: according to the statistics, Norway is one of the countries that has come out most of the way. Last year, we had under-mortality, as the only country in Europe, so we can't have been behind it all the time, or have always made sure it's bad. Let me answer the first question: why keep this presentation now? I want to remind the Stortinge that I have written a letter to the Presidentship of Stortinge on the question of how to inform the Stortinge after the Corona Committee was closed, because I felt that it was a great wish. Then I got the answer that I was going to ask for explanations when we thought we had something to report, and we thought we had something to announce today. We have thought that we have something to report because the situation is that we have the highest rates of infection we have had since the beginning of January. We have an uneven distribution of infection in the country, which means that we do not choose to take large national measures immediately, but we have notified what national measures are coming, which is the strategy if there is no local follow-up. I think it's relatively important that the Storting is aware that that's the way we think about it. It's not like the representative Gahr Støre said, that we're going to see this in a week or two. What I said was that this could happen. We follow developments day by day, if the municipalities are able to follow up with strong enough measures, but of course also if there is more, so that there are more places. That's about. 50 municipalities that have an increasing infection now. If that figure increases, there is also a basis for more national action. But we don't get the infection down by increasing measures where it's not infected. We reduce the infection by providing good and effective measures where it is infected, and that is what is the basis for the strategy. But it's not like we're waiting for a week or two. It could happen faster. Then it was the question of the distribution of vaccines, that we change the age group now that the older ones have been vaccinated. Now when we're dealing with the group between 75 and 84, it'll be natural to go over to a distribution where we're going to follow the overall age composition, not just the number over 65, in that distribution. It's a greater redistribution to places with young people than the small division we've done to Oslo and other Eastern municipalities will have. It will have a greater significance simply because many places have more and younger population, but it's natural that we've come further into a strategy. And the fact that you have underlying diseases can apply to both the young and the elderly in this context, so it's a natural race, but it means a greater redistribution. So the question related to the vaccine purchase. It sounds like some people in Stortinget are doing a lot of secret stuff, but it's not like that. The Danish Commission said in their report that we were much more open about all the decisions, about all the decision-making bases we have, than what Denmark has been about all these things. So it's like we're completely open about the agreements, and we've been completely open about the assessments we've made about this. So we have chosen a strategy in which we cooperate with the EU, because that's what gave us the best guarantee that we could have an agreement with many companies, to be sure that we got vaccines when they were done. None of us knew at the time when we had to conclude these agreements, which vaccine would come first, and who would have major production challenges. One of the companies that was early to signal large volumes has not been able to deliver those volumes, that is, AstraZeneca, and that is essentially what makes us lie further behind at the beginning of the vaccination than what we had originally hoped we would be. At the same time, I want to stress that the government has taken these reservations all the time, that it assumes that we do not have challenges with this. So to the question of intensification: the picture given that nothing has been done is basic – basic – wrong. We had 289 intensities last year when we started this pandemic. We now have a capacity that can raise the intensive sites to 1,200. There are insufficient intensities, as it is not possible to do so soon, but there are 3000 staff trained to help in intensive care under the guidance of skilled medical staff. That means that we've made a take-off in health businesses, but when they start it escalating, that's a professional question. And the fact that Ahus within the Great Oslo region has a capacity challenge means that the other hospitals have to step up with their capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e710	The debate on the presentation is thus closed. The President will propose that the statement by the Prime Minister on the coronary apathy be annexed to the Minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e728	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e735	It is a serious question, an important question, which is addressed in the proposal for a representative. It is also reflected in the Committee's position, where there is a broad consensus that the police – who are to carry out this social mission, which is to be those who have the authority to enforce the laws and regulations that we adopt here at Stortinget, which we adopt in our democracy – must have security in their work. They must have a law, have a framework around their work that allows them to implement it without undue risk and without events that endanger both themselves and their families. So it's very serious, and it's important that we do something about this on Stortinget in a way that enables us to support and contribute to the security of those who do the job on our behalf, and also to the fact that this job can be done in a way that doesn't create unnecessary problems and conflicts that no one has earned. The majority in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights are in favour of this proposal not being adopted, and I shall now move on to say something about what we have alternative proposals. This is much more than the SIAN demonstrations mentioned first and foremost in the proposal. In our opinion, it is about the whole picture drawn by the number of threats, insults, obstacles, violence cases, throwing stones, etc. against the police, unfortunately, has increased a lot in recent years. In Oslo, there were 1,171 cases of this in 2019, and also developments in 2020 towards the third quarter pointed in the negative direction. Those who stand up in this, those who represent the police, express their concern for their security. The head of the Joint Police Association tells Avisa Oslo, who has written a lot about this, that he knows that colleagues have changed their fields of work, has wanted to withdraw from the kind of jobs in which you meet these challenges in particular. It shouldn't be like that, and we have to do what we can in Stortingen to show that we understand, show that we want to see what more we can contribute. At the same time, it's important to be aware that what we're facing is very different. It's all from children and young people who get into unfortunate situations, which can be most preventable through good contact with the police, by moving forward in the right ways and being present in these neighbourhoods, not only when things happen, but are present continuously, at all times and building good contact, building up knowledge of the environments it's about, and knowing how to prevent such situations. A lot of things can be solved that way. Then there are also those who operate who are more conscious criminals, who want to stand up to the police, want to bring young people and others to stand up to the police and create confrontations, and who see themselves served with it. Unfortunately, we have had too many cases of this. The police have described, both in Avisa Oslo and in other contexts, when we've been visiting, etc., cases of throwing stones, spitting, getting in the way of the police, quickly mobilizing many, sending out messages so that there are many people coming to show that you're not moving for the police. So I had hoped that several of the parties in the Stortinget could be involved in what is the proposal of the Central Party here, namely that we want the government to come back with a more detailed assessment of this, come back with an assessment of measures that can enable the police to get the best possible working conditions in these situations, where the assessment of the penalties, but also of other things, which concern prevention, and which concern much of what I talked about, are taken into account. I had hoped that the Storting could go in to continue working on this issue. I will bring up with it the proposals of the Centre Party, on which the Progress Party is with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e754	Then the representative Jan Bøhler mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e759	The right fully agrees with the proposers that strong protection needs to be ensured for the police in order to carry out their social mission. Attacking or harming a public service person is currently particularly protected by criminal law through its own criminal provisions. In today’s legislation, the threshold is low for the types of action that can be punished. Furthermore, violence against the police is becoming a severe response today. The starting point for the current law is that all violence against the police is met with unconditional imprisonment. We think that's absolutely right. I would like to show that last year the Stortinget unanimously adopted new rules on violence and shooting at the police. The penalty for serious offences was increased from three to six years in prison, and the penalty for shooting against the police was raised to ten years in prison, with a minimum sentence of one year. There was also a provision on shooting, gross violence and damage to the police. Since changes have been made as late as last year, we believe it is wise to look at this a little bit and make the changes work before we make any new changes. This is the way to increase penalties a great deal in one area in a short time, and there is a poor balance between the level of penalties for similar criminal acts. It is therefore necessary to look at several provisions in this case. The government is constantly working to assess whether the penalty level at any time reflects the severity of this type of action. In this round, we believe that last year's changes will have to be effective before we assess new ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e770	On the late summer last year, you could witness what was quite dramatic demonstrations both in Oslo and in Bergen. Among other things, 29 people had to be apprehended during and after the demonstration against the Stop Islamisation of Norway, SIAN, outside the Stortinget on 29 August, several of which were actually minors. Three police cars were attacked by the crowd, people hammered on the routes, thrown stones, bottles, iron rods, cans, eggs, and thrown stones at the cars. People climbed on the roof of these police cars. Eventually, there was so much throwing stones and iron rods at the police that they had to stop the demonstration for third parties. The police officer could tell us about a rather dramatic situation and that even after the demonstration people continued to do damage and stop the traffic. In addition, a person was attacked. Also in Bergen, the demonstrations became dramatic. A total of 15 people were apprehended after the SIAN demonstration on 22 August, and dozens of young people gathered outside the police station, where police officers actually had to put up with shields. The events during the demonstrations both in Oslo and in Bergen testify to a behaviour and violence against the police that is totally unacceptable. Under no circumstances can attacks on the police be tolerated, rather acts that prevent them from carrying out their social mission. In this case, it was about safeguarding the fundamental human right and the fundamental freedom of expression. This is a development we've seen over time. We see it in several contexts, we see it in the capital: a lack of respect for the police and a slippage in that way. And as the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Bøhler, correctly points out, this is not about SIAN. You can mean whatever you want about SIAN, and you'd like to do it. But they have the right to express themselves in the free space. That's what this hall has given them. It follows from the Constitution. Their rights, freedom of expression, are to be respected, like everyone else's, but when the police carry out the mission on behalf of society, they experience attacks and a lack of respect and an act that is totally unacceptable. As I was in, we see it in several other contexts as well. That's why it's important that the Storting sends a clear signal, uses punishment, to clearly demonstrate that we don't actually accept that the law is under attack. We do not accept that politicians and policemen out there should be insecure in their jobs just because they do their job on behalf of society. And then there's something about the general respect for the police that's about something besides this too, because it's about the fact that you like to act disrespectfully towards the police. I use to say that it may be that the police have become a little too kind, a little too weak in the pinch, because you try to understand, trying to be accommodating. But it's a hairy balance. When you experience the kind of demonstrations we saw last summer, when you experience that young people don't have respect for the police – yes, it's okay to respond. Then it's allowed to use punishment, and it's allowed to send a clear signal, that this is in no way sustainable, this is in no way acceptable. That is why the Progress Party has promoted the proposal under consideration today. We also support the proposal that is a little bit more moderate, from the Central Party, which is about investigating it. But at least it is very important, even if we do not adopt our specific proposals today, that these issues be looked at more closely, and that we find good solutions that ensure a safe working environment for the police. With that, I would like to address our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e785	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen then addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e790	I have been a little uncertain about whether I should take the floor on this matter, because this is really about the proposal that the Progress Party once again wants to draw a picture of a dangerous city, of disastrous young people who are unruly, and a kind of growing crime that needs to be combated with stricter penalties. When the Progress Party now presents this matter, one year after the Storting has actually dealt with much of the same thing on the way, as the representative Ingun Foss pointed out quite correctly, this is not so much about the matter itself and the content of it, but it is about the Progress Party wanting to draw this picture. Then we have to ask ourselves whether this is a correct picture, or whether it is only a wish of the Progress Party to draw a political narrative. That's the last thing I think they do. I believe that there are two fundamental challenges to this proposal that Stortinget needs to reflect properly on. If we are to make changes to the criminal framework, we must have good evidence of whether this crime is actually increasing, a major problem, or not, and there must be a process that shows that those measures will actually work. The rapporteurs cannot explain whether this is a major problem. There's only random stories from here and there, but they can't explain whether this is a big problem that we have to use the Storting's legislative authority to fix. Reference is made to figures from Avisa Oslo, but it is not necessarily a sufficiently good source. Nor can the proposers explain whether what they claim to be the increasing violence is actually due to too low penalties. For this must be the reflection here: Is it because the increasing violence that both Bohemia and Amundsen point out is due to the fact that today there are too low penalties for that kind of violence? They can't explain that, and so the proposal falls a little bit on stone, because we don't know if that kind of proposal will work. The more fundamental and general here of which the Progress Party and also the Centre Party are committed is a kind of idea that stricter penalties will help to limit crime. We had a treatment of this last year, but it was based on a pretty good investigation. Here is a proposal based on a notion that stricter penalties will combat this type of crime, without any kind of investigation as to what it would actually be like. In fact, Norway is a country with little crime, very little crime, if we compare with most countries around us. At the same time, we are a country with low penalties. That's really funny and quite the opposite of what the Progress Party is trying to say. Maybe that's just because we have low penalties and use resources to prevent, we also manage to rehabilitate and avoid some of the challenges that are pointed out. We have to demand when dealing with these kinds of issues, that there is good evidence that this is actually a problem that we have to tackle. We also need to have good evidence of whether the measures with increasing penalties will work to prevent that problem. None of it is presented in this proposal. So it's quite obvious that we have to say no to that. With regard to the SIAN demonstrations that the representative Amundsen pointed out, it is true that there were many young people there who were very, very emotional, strong and aggressive. That's absolutely right. It was created a strong emotional reaction there because they perceived that the police were protecting what could be called hateful expressions. I disagree with that and believe that the police in those contexts acted quite correctly, but the emotions escalated. Is there any idea that the young people who were so upset at that time would stop their aggression against the police if they had known that the penalties were more stringent? Not at all — there is no such thing. Then I think it is a little important that the Stortinge refuses to accept that kind of proposal from the Progress Party, when they cannot properly document the effect and neither the background to their own proposals. At the end of the day, I think it is a clue that the Stortinget should deal with legislative proposals, direct legislative proposals, in the main hall as a result of Document 8 proposals without having been thoroughly examined or investigated. It's simply too easy to deal with legislative proposals, as it's highlighted here, and we have to, when we're going to go to such dramatic steps, have a thorough analysis of the consequences of what it's going to mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e807	Violence against the police is unacceptable, and it must be fought hard. Police are one of the most important social institutions we have. Police are to protect citizens and protect them from all legal activities in Norway. If the police are subjected to violence or damage, we cannot accept it. That is why we are pleased with what the Minister of Justice also points out in his reply to the Storting, that violence against the police is already reacting harshly. The threshold for which acts can be punished is low, and the starting point is that all violence against the police is met with unconditional imprisonment. Last year, the Stortinget strengthened the protection of police and public officials when we dealt with changes in the penal code. That is what the Labour Party believes was – and is – positive, but we agree with the Minister of Justice that further lifting of the criminal framework would not be an appropriate tool for preventing and preventing violence and threats to the police. Violence against the police is unacceptable. Finally, the Labour Party will vote in favour of the proposal of the Centre Party and the Progress Party to ask for an assessment of the police’s working conditions in relation to the youth environment and recriminals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e816	I agree with the rapporteurs on the need to ensure strong protection for the police against violent acts against the police, such as us. So during the SIAN markings in Oslo and Bergen last year. The fact that the police are well protected is absolutely necessary in order for them to be able to carry out their social mission. The Penal Code already provides strong protection. Firstly, the threshold is set at a low level for which actions can be punished. Secondly, violence against the police is already reacting harshly. The clear rule is that all violence against the police must be met with unconditional imprisonment. I would also like to emphasise that the criminal law protection of police and public officials was recently strengthened by changes to the criminal law, as adopted by the Stortinget in June 2020. Among other things, it was added to a provision on shooting, gross violence and damage to the police. The penalty for serious offences was thus lifted from three to six years in prison. In addition, the penalty for shooting against the police was raised to ten years of imprisonment with a minimum sentence of one year. I therefore do not now see the need for further lifting of the sanctions framework as an appropriate instrument to prevent and prevent violence and threats against the police. The police work systematically to prevent these kinds of acts and also have a specific focus on prevention at the forefront of demonstrations. It includes cooperation and dialogue with both demonstrators and potential counter demonstrators, for which the SV representative has highlighted the importance of the adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e827	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e845	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e852	Then I'm going to go straight to my main post because, unfortunately, the case spokesperson can't participate in the debate because he's sick. This is a debate that very many people are following today. The exposure attached to the CRPD, the incorporation of this convention into Norwegian law, knows all the parties very well. The working party will strengthen the equality of people with disabilities in society, and its involvement in the Labour Party is high. We have received many e-mails and many telephones, and we have seen down a separate resource group working specifically on questions related to the challenges experienced by disabled people. Therefore, it is very gratifying that we are today going to vote in favour of the proposal for SV. The Labour Party has a lot of issues in Stortingen when it comes to strengthening the rights of disabled people. We went into the gap for the Anti-Discrimination Act and for a mandatory action plan for a universal design Norway by 2015 last we put in government. Today's right-wing government has removed its obligations over time. We have also made a number of suggestions in the Storting in the years that we have now been in opposition, but have encountered a lot of resistance. We've got a lot of things to do. have been put to the vote in proposals for concrete measures on work and tools. When we talk to both those who make up the Working Party's resource group, with people with disabilities and engaged members, and with all of them, everyone points out that people with disabilities are still being discriminated against in Norway. Equal opportunities and discrimination are the main source of complaints from people with disabilities. There is too much difference between municipalities when providing services. Persons without consent may be subjected to forced sterilisation and abortion procedures. Discrimination protection is not effective enough because the possibilities for sanctions are inadequate. Employment among disabled people is lower than in the rest of the population. - And the list is longer. Inclusion of the UN Convention into Norwegian law would indicate that discrimination and prejudice against disabled persons is a central social problem. It will clarify the rights, but also the obligations of the public and gender perspective. Not least this shows us seriously what we mean when we say that everyone is going into society. For the Labour Party, the struggle for equality, inclusion and a fairer Norway is a core issue. So it's a shame that SV's proposal doesn't get multiples in Stortinget today. We know that there is actually a political plurality in the main hall, and we also note that there are a number of loose proposals that we will come back to later in the debate. But the Labour Party had hoped that the parties that agree to incorporate the CRPD would have voted for it when matters come to voting. I include the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e871	Then the representative, Mrs. Lene Vågslid, mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e876	It is important that disabled people are accorded their rights in the same way as all others. It must be the starting point and the aim of all legislation and work in this area. In Norway, we have laws on human rights, the law on equality and the prohibition of discrimination, such as: include disabled persons. The objective of the Equality and Discrimination Act is to promote equality, defined as equality, equal opportunities and equal rights, and to prevent discrimination. In addition, Norway has undertaken to comply with the obligations of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Nevertheless, we see that people with disabilities and their organisations report major challenges, and that the laws and the convention are not complied with well enough. The CRPD Convention has been implemented in Norwegian law with so-called transformation, which means that the material provisions are transformed into the ordinary Norwegian legislation. In the context of the ratification of the Treaty in 2013, changes were made to the protection system and to other legislation in order to comply with the requirements of the Convention. So, as I said, we are obliged to follow the Convention regardless of how it is implemented in Norwegian law. It is based on how we adopt laws and rules relating to people with disabilities. What we're skeptical about is that we incorporate juss that's designed in a different way than what we're used to here in Norway. We have reached an agreement between the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right, and I am therefore going to put forward a loose proposal on this matter, which is that we will ask the government to submit an investigation into what it will mean to incorporate the CRPD Convention into Norwegian law. I'm sorry I only had one side of my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e889	The representative, Ingunn Foss, then addressed the proposal she referred to, and the representative is welcome to come back with the rest of the speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e894	The Progress Party is very committed to strengthening the rights of people with disabilities. We want to make the changes to the laws necessary to implement the intention and what is actually in the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, that is, the CRPD. So we're voting to strengthen the rights of people with disabilities, but we're not voting to give sovereignty to the United Nations. We are principal. In the same way as implementing the human rights law, we would rather use Norwegian legislation in this process to implement the changes that may be necessary. For those affected, one will achieve exactly the same thing, but we avoid giving sovereignty. That is why the Progress Party – we have promoted it last week – has submitted a loose proposal to be discussed today, where we want to get a case back from the government in order to be able to implement what remains in Norwegian legislation, adopted in Stortinget, in order to safeguard the rights of people with disabilities, according to the CRPD. I record that after the government parties got our loose proposal, they have been able to produce their own loose proposal. That's so interesting. They could have joined the Procedural Party's proposal, but they probably will not, because the proposal of the Government parties is less binding. It's also more research-oriented. The progress party is going to maintain, and promotes today, it resolves the proposal that was originally in the matter. We hope and believe that the other opposition parties choose to support that proposal so that it actually gets a majority. Coming running in the last hour because you see that you don't necessarily get what you want in the Storting, and holding internal seminars between the government parties, I don't think that is the cause of the Storting. We believe and stand by that we will respect the rights of people with disabilities following the intention of the CRPD. But we're going to do that without putting international conventions above Norwegian law, without putting the United Nations above Norwegian law – but by adopting these laws here in Stortinget, in this room. That is why I also ask a little question about the role of the Central Party in the middle of it all, a party that I in many cases perceive to be a defender of Norwegian sovereignty. There's a glare we're looking at a lot of fields, that we're still helping to give up power, to give up sovereignty, from this hall. It is at the expense of Norwegian democracy, it is at the expense of our people's rule. It must also be able to take this step forward and understand: every time we implement human rights obligations under Norwegian law, we help to avoid the Storting's full handling of matters, and thus also the functioning of democracy. But it is possible to do this in a completely different way than to incorporate the CRPD into the Human Rights Act, and that is done by adopting the concrete legislative changes that need to be in place to ensure exactly the same rights. For those who are concerned, exactly the same will be achieved, as quickly as possible, but we are able to maintain a principle, namely that it is in this Chamber that we govern Norwegian legislation; it is in this Chamber that we govern this country. With that, I take up our proposal and hope that it will get a majority instead of the government's urgent proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e913	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e918	There are many people in society who, over the years, have always mentioned to us that they do not feel that they have the same rights as everyone else. There are still issues in which they feel that they are being discriminated against, and not being granted their rights. We have been contacted for many years by members of our parties as well as by the FFO Joint Organisation of Disabilities, and the Norwegian Handicap Federation, who have been on. We have to take seriously that people don't feel equal. Although Norway is one of the world’s best countries to treat people in a non-discriminatory manner and to grant rights to those with disabilities, new challenges are emerging. For the international situation in this field, it is important that a country such as Norway, which is otherwise a leading country, shows that we both ratify the Convention, as we did in 2013, and also incorporate it into the Human Rights Act. It affects other countries, it affects the world situation, and it affects the situation in Norway and the possibility of being ahead of these issues. It's right that Per-Willy Amundsen's representative said that the Central Party will not automatically accede to all kinds of conventions that can make Norway have no sovereignty in all areas, but it doesn't in any way mean that we're against all kinds of conventions. In a field like this, where it is important to draw up a course for Norway for the future and also have an impact on the world, we believe it is right to agree to incorporate the CRPD into the law on human rights. There are still new issues that we'll be more likely to be in front of if we incorporate this convention in this way. It's about new technology, about new media, and it's about different legal work in society, where we can better deal with the concerns of people with disabilities at the forefront. I feel that there is a movement in Stortinget now. When the government parties promote a proposal to investigate this and the Progress Party makes a better proposal to clarify it in different parts of the law, it is a positive move towards what we think is right. What we are proposing on the part of the Central Party is an addition to what is the original proposal for a representative, namely that, while we are asking the government to incorporate the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities into the Human Rights Act, a systematic review of Norwegian legislation is being carried out to identify where there may be a need to make changes. That way, the two processes can go hand in hand, and we get concrete work done as soon as possible. But of course, if our proposal is not adopted, we will vote in favour of the proposal promoted by the SV and the Workers' Party to incorporate the UN Convention, without that amendment. We have proposed a proposal on the additional protocol to the CRPD, that is to say this Convention, on individual complaints mechanisms, asking for an assessment of the consequences of Norway to join that additional protocol. We have seen the objections to it and will therefore have a more detailed assessment of it from the government before we decide on that issue. There is an important step that is being taken today when the three red-green parties in the Justice Committee support this, and when there is also a clear movement in the other parties on the Stortinget. It is a step forward, and we hope that progress will be made in full in not too long. I'm taking up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e939	The representative Jan Boehler has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e944	This matter is about one thing: should the human rights of people with disabilities be equal to the human rights of others? That's what we're taking today's principle and value point of view. Human rights are not shared by politicians or governments. It's something people have, and that governments and politicians can violate. Norway has ratified the Convention, and putting it into the law of human rights, as we have proposed, is not to weaken democracy, it is to strengthen democracy. Because when people with disabilities are guaranteed their human rights in line with others, they also have opportunities to fully exploit their political and civil rights in society. They don't have that unless the social and economic are taken care of. The other conventions on discrimination are contained in Norwegian law. That is why this is a gap in relation to the Women's Convention, the Children's Convention and the Convention against Racism, which could imply only one thing: that one does not want to equate people with people with disabilities in the same way, and that is SV against. We also believe that this will make a difference in practice. The Nav scandal has shown for the world that if the rights are not directly written into the law, people's rights are broken, and for disabled people, that's more the rule than the exception. Norway’s human rights institution and the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman have given a clear message: this must be part of Norwegian law. Nevertheless, the Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Support Party say this is legally problematic. It's not. This matter is not about giving sovereignty. Then you have completely misunderstood and misinformed massively about what this will mean. It is still the Norwegian magnificence that determines how the human rights law should look, how the anti-discrimination law should look, what the underlying laws should look like. What we can do now is to establish that we agree on the principle of equality and that it should be incorporated into the same law. I see that the Minister of Justice is shaking his head, but I have received an answer from the Minister of Justice today on something I have asked her about, because the government has just sent out a proposal for a law on the responsibility of municipalities towards disadvantaged people in the housing market, which says on page 9: the Convention, that is, CRPD, is not incorporated into Norwegian law, and therefore the rights cannot be enforced in Norwegian courts. I've asked the Council of State about that. She does not respond directly to the question I have asked, but she points out that it does not apply directly in Norwegian law – it is a central source of justice, but the courts must interpret such rules as far as possible so that there is no conflict, the Council of State answers. That means that when there is a conflict, as it is now, Norwegian law passes. We know that there are deficiencies on it too – there are several who have said here. Yes, SV does not disagree that much of the Norwegian legislation needs to be tightened up. But the principle has to be established, and these rights are equivalent to others. I have to say I am a little shocked by the proposal that the government parties have presented here today. It states in a way that one has not taken a stand on the principle – that one should still investigate it, and that one thinks that these human rights should be incorporated into the same law as the other human rights are. I have even been in debate with the Right-Representatives who believe that these are not the real human rights. However, political and civil rights are not enforceable or realizable either for the state or for the individual without the social and economic rights in place, and the CRPD is incorporated into Norwegian law. It's very important that this is done. That's why I'm taking up the suggestions from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e968	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e973	Civil cooperation started with the righting of BPA, user-driven personal assistance. We agreed on this through the cooperation agreement in Nydalen in 2013, and the rights fixing was carried out in 2015. Examining the incorporation of CRPD into Norwegian law is the next step in the construction work to ensure the rights of disabled people. It's about having freedom and equal opportunities. A social liberal society has a central guiding star: equal opportunities for all. This ideal does not meet Norway today. Persons with disabilities meet both prejudices and closed doors where other people meet opportunities. I'd like to give you some examples. A clearly visible example is how the prejudices formally rolled out in the comment fields when Birgit Skarstein participated with wheelchairs in «Should we dance». It's an expression to the prejudice when a master student in a wheelchair is talked to with the baby voice of his supervisor. The fact that disabled people are spoken to by baby voice is unfortunately more common than we think. Eight out of ten secondary schools for children are not organised for disabled persons. That means that more children have to move outside their municipality and their county to go to school. People with disabilities are also forgotten, for example: students who don't get the arrangements they need, or now the last time the Olympic Summit didn't give any of the extra OL funds to paraplegics. Today, Stortinget will consider proposals that the Convention for Persons with Disabilities should be regarded as human rights under Norwegian law. Until recently, SV and Left have been alone in fighting for this, while the rest of the parties on Stortinget have been opposed. Now the situation has changed. Several batches have changed their positions. This is very pleasing, because it shows that we can soon be in the goal of recognising the rights of people with disabilities as human rights. The left is pleased that the government parties agree to start work on assessing the consequences of incorporating the CRPD into Norwegian legislation. I hope that this proposal will have a majority on the Stortinget today. Let there be no doubt that the Left is impatient in this work, and we want inclusion to happen as soon as possible. At the same time, we recognise that thorough investigation and legal work are important and necessary to ensure that the purpose is achieved and that we do not have unintended consequences. I would like to thank all the individuals and organisations that have worked for this, and thank all the political parties that are now helping us to start this work. I would particularly like to thank the Christian People's Party and the Right. While all other UN conventions on discrimination have been incorporated into Norwegian legislation, this is not the case with the CRPD Convention. It may give the impression that the rights of the Convention are not so important, but they are important. It's about human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e992	It has been suggested that the UN CRPD should be incorporated. The Convention's objective is to combat discrimination on grounds of disability, and this is therefore a very important Convention for the Christian People's Party. Norway ratified it in 2013, and it was the red-green government that provided the leaders with information on how it was to be implemented in Norwegian law, namely by transformation. The Ministry of Culture became the responsible contact point for the Convention and its implementation is continuously monitored by the CRPD Committee. And Norway regularly reports to the Committee. I assume that the red-green government had its reasons when they allowed the leaders to ratify the convention, but not incorporate it. Changes were also made to the law of the courts and other laws. Why didn't the red-green chance to incorporate into the landfill in 2013, but now comes, in opposition, with a Document 8 proposal? Why did SV congratulate on the day in their posts in 2013 and did it seem absolutely amazing that the government presented it as they did? The Christian People's Party has human dignity as one of its most important carriers. The Christian People's Party promises that we never give in to the struggle for people with disabilities, we hold firmly to the belief that human beings, regardless of their qualities, have an inviolable value. That is why the UN Convention is important. On the centre-right side, it is we who have gone into the brink of an equidistant reform, a reform that should be for families and children who need complex services. Before we entered the government, it was very important for the Christian People's Party to move funds on the state budget, so that increased funds would go to people with disabilities – based on the vision of the Granavolden Platform for Government: a society in which everyone can participate, so that no one should feel neglected and passive. Nevertheless, we see that it may be a piece from intentions and budget lines to the individual's experiences of the services provided. In this tense Christian People's Party is always on guard. The aim is to improve and safeguard the rights of all groups in the welfare society, regardless of the level of function. We are therefore grateful to all those who have reminded us of this in this matter: individuals, organisations and representatives. In addition to human dignity, management is an important support member of the Christian People's Party. It is important to see the consequences of what we adopt, especially in legal cases in a judicial committee. Today, therefore, we are promoting a proposal that aims to incorporate it, based on knowledge of its consequences. I have not seen any quality assurance in the opposition's proposal. We need to know what consequences integration will have. What has changed for SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party in recent years? They're not saying that. Why did SV express happiness with the day in their posts in 2013, and did it seem amazing that the government made it as they did? Now they believe that the Workers' Party and the Center Party are choosing the wrong procedure. Why did the department think that incorporation was not right? And then the representative from the Central Party talks about there's been movement in the hall. Yes, I see where the movement has been. Therefore, this issue is important to take seriously. There is concern that Norway may be forced by a United Nations Committee to eliminate the possibility of appointing magistrates. It may be very serious for those at risk of self-injury. We can risk standing without an opportunity to intervene with people who really need the big community to stand up. The Christian People's Party talks about the CRPD in the current party program, and it's probably going to be strengthened in the next. We do not accept discrimination. That is why we are promoting this proposal today: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the consequences of incorporating the CRPD into Norwegian legislation, including the consequences it will have for future legislative developments, and to ask the Government to return appropriately to the Stortinget on a case’. We believe that this is a responsible policy. It is important for the Christian People's Party to stress the following nevertheless: the debate on the incorporation of the CRPD is not finished, the proposal today is a decisive step in the right direction, it is the goal of the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party is in favour of an incorporation, and we hope that it can happen as soon as the government comes back with the questions that have been discussed today. We would also like to thank you for your cooperation with the Left and Right, because we have managed to get a proposal that will serve the matter optimally.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1018	Now we have the chance not only to investigate, but actually to incorporate the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities into the Human Rights Act. The consequence of doing so would be Norway’s adherence to human rights. The consequence of not doing so would be Norway joining the range of countries that do not follow human resources in practice for one specific group. That will be the consequence. Why, then, are we preoccupied with first figuring out what the consequences will be of following human rights? Does this mean that we consider not to give a group of people in Norway full human rights if the consequences are sensitive to the big society? I don't think that's the motivation. I think the motivation behind figuring out is good, but I just think the logic is not in place. The consequence of incorporating these human rights into the Human Rights Act will be to maintain human rights for all citizens of Norway, and that is what we in the Greens want to support in the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1027	This is about people with disabilities being assimilated into the law as everyone else, and having a protection in the law against discrimination. It's really not that much harder than that. It's probably shocking to many in our society to know that it's actually not that people with disabilities' human rights are the same as everyone else's human rights. And that's what this proposal is about. Because there is no doubt: every day, the whole year, the human rights of disabled children are broken because they are not strong in Norwegian law. A few days ago, all of us at Stortinget got a letter from a mother to a heavy 19-year-old autistic boy with a 17-year-old little brother. This mother has fought for years for the fundamental rights of her oldest son, a struggle that has caused her to lose her job and to destroy her health. She does not understand why there should be such discrimination. It is also difficult to understand why the government has not done more to ensure equality. Today, we may seem to have a majority for some changes, but the CRPD should be the main convention and the base of human rights law. The CRPD states that people with disabilities have exactly the same human rights as everyone else, and the Convention describes what is needed for this to happen in practice. Today, when we get a step closer to getting the CRPD into Norwegian legislation, it does not happen because the government has done its job, but because the public pressure on this matter is now winning and is forcing even the government parties to promote solutions in the Chamber today – but solve proposals that do not solve the problems, because the solutions do not take the principle position that is needed, so it does not remain standing. But they do this because the government knows they can't stay standing again as opponents of what should be a matter of course. Although we record that they are so indifferent to common sense and basic principles that humans are human beings, whether or not they are disabled, the government has not found it too good to follow up on this until today's hall. But the government has to decide. Today, Red will vote with SV to incorporate the CRPD into Norwegian legislation. It wouldn't be a minute early.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1042	Norway ratified the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, CRPD, in 2013. Norway is obliged to comply with this Convention, irrespective of how it was implemented in Norwegian law. The Convention has been implemented in Norwegian law in the event of transformation. Changes were made to the legal structure and other legislation to comply with the requirements of the Convention. The government is continuously working to ensure compliance with the CRPD. The precautionary principle helps to ensure that Norwegian law is interpreted and applied in line with Norway’s international obligations, i.e. the CRPD. The Committee monitoring the implementation of the Convention interprets some of the Convention’s obligations extensively. This can help create uncertainty about the content of the Convention and make it less suitable for incorporation into the human rights law. Among other things, the CRPD Committee believes that disability can never provide a basis for depriving any of their legal capacity or for forced health care. In Norway and many other countries, this is allowed when last resort is needed and control mechanisms are available. If the understanding of the Committee is based on the central provisions of Norwegian law, it would be contrary to the Convention. As late as April 30, 2020, Stortinget rejected by a large majority a proposal to incorporate the CRPD into the Human Rights Act. The same reasons that spoke against the incorporation of the CRPD a year ago, in my view, also apply today. The issue of Norway's accession to the CRPD's individual complaint scheme has also been addressed in detail in the past. In the examination of this issue in 2017, the clear majority of the Stortinges found, like the government, that Norway should not join the individual complaint scheme of the CRPD. The justification is related to the broad interpretation of the CRPD Committee, which also applies to the question of membership of the CCR.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1057	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1062	I thought it was interesting to hear the statements of the Council of State. Now there is a joint proposal from the Right, Left and Christian People's Party in the Storting, which is slightly different from the contents of the letter sent by the Council of State. I want to ask the Council of State: what does that mean for the majority proposal that exists today? I expect that the government will be clear before it is presented. Is there a commitment at the other end of that proposal for inclusion, or is it completely transparent what the conclusion is going to be?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1067	The order here is to promote a case for Stortinget where you explain the consequences of an incorporation, and those consequences may in some areas be quite large. It is also one of the reasons why the government and I have not wanted an inclusion. These include: on health care, it is about the rules relating to mental health protection, and it may be considered that this should be left to a UN-appointed committee to decide. I believe the resolution lies here in the Storting. But that means that there will be a case where the consequences of incorporation are explained, and then it will be up to the Stortinget to decide what to do when you get this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1072	I thank you for your answer. That was clarifying. When the representative Geir Tuskedal says that this is the first step on the way to an incorporation, I feel that the Council of State has a slightly different view of what the proposal actually involves. There is no obligation to incorporate at the other end. But then I wonder, is there a time obligation? Do we get that answer before the big shot?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1077	Here I think I have to be very clear: the government has always been in favour of the presumption principle. It also has a large majority in this Chamber, including the Workers' Party, until we are now in the election year 2021. Then you've changed your mind. It's an obligation to promote a case, and we don't tend to spend more time on matters than we have to, but we have to spend the time we have to. So there's going to be one thing promoted. So there's internal disagreement in different parties in the government on this issue. It's been obvious all the way. I guess that was also the situation when we ratified the convention in 2013, when there was a red-green government that was sitting, where the Workers' Party was in charge, but where SV was at the time of a different view.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1085	Thank you again for your answer. I then understand that there is no obligation for the investigation to be completed, so that we know before the decision is made. But I want to go back to what the Council of State was about, that here one has to consider before a conclusion, because incorporating the Convention into Norwegian law can have so great consequences. I wonder what the consequences are. The Council of State mentioned a few examples, but these were probably assessments that were made before we actually ratified the Convention, and the Council of State itself has stressed that the Convention applies. Then I wonder what major consequences are unexplored, which still remain to be investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1092	I actually assumed that the representative knew this, as the Workers' Party has also been a strong supporter of the principle of presumption. It is a matter of our being obliged to the Convention, it is a matter of our complying with it, and it is a matter of our assuming that Norwegian law is in conformity. However, it is also a matter of deciding the development of justice in this Chamber, and in the case of interpretation disagreements, which exist in several areas of this case, Norwegian law and the Stortinge decision apply. I heard one say it wasn't about sovereignty, but it does, of course, to the highest degree. If you think that Norwegian law is not in line with the interpretation committee's decision and will change the law on that basis, you have left the legal development of a UN-appointed committee that is not in elections. I disagree. Then there are certainly other legal consequences, which we will of course also consider if this is decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1101	There are many human rights conventions that are now incorporated into Norwegian law. In this respect, there will be no difference in the effects of the incorporation of CRPDs in relation to, for example: The UN Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights or the UN Convention on Women's Discrimination. There is therefore reason to ask whether this scepticism is about the rights of people with disabilities, and what is at the heart of what the government believes is fundamentally difficult. Is it true that people with disabilities should not have the same human rights as others? Because you have this system of the other conventions, where there are also legal developments, and where there are also changes in how this is interpreted in the future, in the same way that it will be with this convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1106	It is true that when the Law of Human Rights was passed, it was not intended at all to incorporate all the conventions. That was not at all the starting point. It wasn't then a majority who thought it was good law development. I still don't think that's the situation. So it's like there's a legal, but above all, a political disagreement here. It's not about being for or against human rights for some groups. It is about who should have the right of initiative for legislative development, who should interpret the laws. There I heard the representative Andersen say in the pulpit that in Norway there were a number of laws contrary to the Convention, based on the interpretation of a United Nations committee – the majority of people, the democratically elected Parliament, are wrong, the United Nations Committee is right. I deeply disagree with that. I believe that the right of initiative, the interpretation, will take place in Norwegian courts, developments will take place in Norwegian magnificence. There is a fundamental disagreement that makes it the basis for the development of human rights when we apply the principle of presumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1113	Yes, but what the council says now is wrong. If we incorporate this, it is not that the UN can come and decide that Norway should amend Norwegian laws. It's not like that at all. In the United Nations system, there is at a height a ‘shaming and blaring’ system. We have one system of human rights in which there is a court of law, and that is the European Court of Human Rights. Swäl there is such that in cases where Norway is convicted, direct legal effects do not necessarily occur in Norway. So we still want this right in the Norwegian grandma. It also says that both the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and the Norwegian Human Rights Institute – they clearly say in their reply to this case that none of these interpretative opinions will force Norway to change the exact legal framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1118	I have heard this argument earlier today, and I think that is very strange. If it is not the case that the representative and the SV believe that we should follow the interpretation of the UN, if that is not the case, why should we incorporate this Convention? That must be in order to base the interpretation of the Convention by the United Nations. And that's where there's a disagreement. In this case, there is a disagreement. I disagree with health care for very, very ill people, for example, where Norway and other countries have a different view — not a worse view, but a different view. Then I believe that the changes, the debate, the initiative will take place here in the grand hall of people who are in elections. It's fundamental. But what the representative here is saying is that you're going to incorporate this convention, and then you're just not going to follow the interpretation -- you can't do that. Is it that simple? I think that's very strange, and in that case I think it's a trick to the group asking for inclusion. They're just doing it to force a law set by a United Nations committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1125	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1132	As I said in my first post, we are obliged to follow the Convention regardless of how it is implemented in Norwegian law. It is based on how we adopt laws and regulations for people with disabilities. The positive effects of the UN Convention may only be achieved by complying with the content of the Convention. Right will work to ensure that Norwegian laws are in conformity with the Convention and that both this and other Norwegian laws are complied with. We are concerned that the interpretation and further development of the general law are left to an outside agency without Norwegian anchoring. By putting the Storting in the background by developing offers and rights in one's own country, one can weaken the democratic anchoring and get dictated solutions that we ourselves would not have prioritised on the basis of our circumstances. It is also natural to remember that the red-green government argued along the same lines in 2013. A lot of people have been into it. Understandably, this matter has attracted considerable attention. Many people have engaged, including in the Right, where we have a separate sample called Right FUNK, which works well with these questions. The dialogue with this sample is important for the lot. Challenges for people with disabilities must be high on the agenda. They often meet challenges we have to do everything we can to solve. We are concerned with a fact-based debate on the CRPD and the consequences of incorporating it into the Human Rights Act. Therefore, the Right Party and the Christian Party and the Left have agreed to present a loose proposal for the vote which reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the consequences of incorporating the CRPD into Norwegian legislation, including the consequences it will have for future legislative developments, and to ask the Government to return appropriately to the Stortinget on a case’.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1146	First, I want to thank you for all the commitment that organisations and individuals have shown when they have told us how their lives are, and why it is important to ensure that people with disabilities are guaranteed the same legal protection as others. Their stories and commitment are the reason why the Workers' Party is convinced that it is right to incorporate the CRPD into Norwegian human rights legislation. There are now several loose proposals on the subject, from the government parties and from the Progress Party. As the Labour Party sees it, none of these proposals will take care to solve the challenge. We fear that a proposal to either investigate or vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party will primarily slow down what is a real majority in this Chamber to incorporate the CRPD into Norwegian law. That the government parties have not reached an agreement and therefore propose to investigate further, one might understand, but the Labour Party asks questions as to why the government wants to investigate this further. We have incorporated other conventions into Norwegian law, so Norway is well aware of what that means. With regard to the proposals of the Progress Party, it may seem sympathetic at first sight when they say that the Norwegian law should be amended in line with the UN Convention. Norway is already obliged to do so. This is also reflected in the comments made by the government parties and by the Progress Party. The challenge is that it doesn't happen. Therefore, it is important to ensure inclusion in the law. I also hear that the representative of the Progress Party argues that the CRPD can be a threat to Norwegian people's rule. First of all, we disagree with that, but it also shows that today's proposals of the Progress Party are primarily a game for the gallery to cover the fact that the Progress Party and the government parties are voting against incorporating this UN Convention into Norwegian human rights law. It is to circumvent the whole principle of incorporation to implement the proposals of the Government Parties or the Advance Party. That's why we want to encourage the parties and the representatives who have said that they are to incorporate this convention into Norwegian law, to actually do it today. If not, a new government will have to come back to the matter until the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1161	We need to get the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, CRPD, into Norwegian law. Norway has signed, but has chosen not to include it in Norwegian law. Norway signed the Women’s Convention and incorporated it into Norwegian law. Norway signed the Racial Discrimination Convention and incorporated it into Norwegian law. Finally, we must strengthen the rights of this group. We've made so many obstacles for many. Schools and hospitals are not well organized. What has to do with language and information, which is important to my group, we who have aphasia, is not good enough. We have to incorporate this into Norwegian law to strengthen the rights of those, us, who have impaired function. It will change our country – for the better. I've read the Granavolden statement. There was nothing about the CRPD, and there was nothing about the parties not being able to vote to get the CRPD into Norwegian law. We can have a majority. If the Christian People's Party and the Left vote in favour of the proposal, all those with disabilities, like me, are given strengthened rights. The Christian People's Party tried to torpedo the changes in the Biotechnology Act. Several from the Right and Left voted in favour of the amendments proposed by the Socialist Left Party, the Advance Party and the Labour Party. The Christian People's Party demanded full hall in the context of the Biotechnology Act that women should not get better rights and more information, but I have not heard that they require full hall for better rights for those with disabilities. The Christian People's Party and the Left can give us those who are disabled, better rights. It is the responsibility of these parties today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1174	I am inspired by the contributions of the previous two speakers, Mr Henriksen and Mr Wilkinson. They talk about that matter at all, namely the respect and recognition of the important interests of people with disabilities' everyday lives that we put ourselves in the harness to make things better and easier. The superlatives on this proposal could rather be brought forward when Norway acceded to the Convention, because it is the person who gives content and inspiration to national legislation and is incorporated into Norwegian law. It is part of the leading policy guidelines in Norway. You've inputted it through technique, transformation. So the representative Henriksen expresses astonishment that it now seems to be a majority – and that's almost how you get indignantly, I understand – in order to explore the effects of a proposal for a representative, who, with one stroke, must choose another deployment technique that has a number of other and unintended negative effects in addition to that of the conflict of interest for the disabled: Who is responsible primarily for the enforcement? Who is the most important policy developer in this area? Who's going to set up with the money? - That's the Storting. All of these questions are important for us to be able to deal with, and that is done better by the implementation technique that we have in transformation. It has already been in operation and in process for a while. Then it's a fake that this really expands the rights of the disabled – not at all! As a main justification in the proposal for a representative, at least as a special opinion from the more moderate parts of the majority of the committee, it is desirable to clarify the rights. So this is a pedagogical problem. But at the same time, there seems to be a strong mood among the red-greens, contrary to their previous policies, where they distanced themselves from incorporation, that they want to contribute to an uncertainty about the rights and scope of these. I am pleased that the draft representative is not adopted today. We cannot have a legislative technique in Stortinget that is based on false representations of today's legal status, as the proposal for a representative has shown, and that this is an investigation, because then the sense will also occur in many on the red-green side.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1188	Interest of disabled people, says the representative Tetzschner. Yes, the interest of people with disabilities is to have their human rights equal to those of others. We have incorporated other human rights conventions into Norwegian law, both the Equality and Discrimination Act and the Human Rights Act. So this isn't very new. However, when all disabled people's organisations, the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and the Norwegian Human Rights Institute, which is the Stortinge's advisory body on human rights, urge us to do what SV has proposed today, the majority say no. It also sounds like people with disabilities don't know their own best. It is completely wrong when the Council of State says that an incorporation will mean that it is an automatic amendment of Norwegian law. SV would like to commit itself to it, but it will still be the majority in this room to amend Norwegian law and decide Norwegian law. What has been demonstrated today is that the majority do not want the human rights of people with disabilities to be equalised. Because that's what this is all about, and we're not there yet. We have not yet managed to lift this out of health and social policy and see that it is a non-discrimination and equality point. So to today's law, as it is: there again I have to refer to the answer I have received from the Council of State, where she clearly says that there is a contradiction between Norwegian law and CRPD today, in today's law, the CRPD will not weigh the most. That must mean that it's an unwillingness to actually do this. I want to repeat what Norway's human rights institution also says: there is no automation, there is no supranationality or any other sovereignty over Norwegian law in this convention, as in any of the other conventions incorporated into Norwegian law. I don't understand why you want to misinform it that way, to create some kind of notion that this will almost be an impossible, uncontrollable system. It won't be. But in some of the areas where there is too much force today, it might push forward arrangements that require you to hire enough people, so that there is not so much exhaustion or so much damage to those who are employed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1199	One of the most important things we as a society can do is to give all people the same opportunities, rights and protection, regardless of sex, sexual orientation, religion, or in this case disability – it can be visual impairment, PRM or other disability. The Progress Party has always supported universal rights and non-discrimination on the basis of function. We have called for a universal design action plan, and we expect the government to make concrete proposals. I want to praise and praise those who have made contact with them to make their recordings, among other things. to the Progress Party, lately, and I would like to highlight in particular the local politician Marit Londal in Kvinesdal for having fought this case and for having been in the process of influencing. All the power in this room," said Johan Sverdrup. That is why the Progress Party believes that we should also strengthen Norwegian legislation in this area. We want to use Norwegian law and not a supranational body, which is not elected by people, to trample on Norwegian law. We want to tighten Norwegian law considerably. The Progress Party therefore promotes a proposal which reads: ‘The Government is asked to promote a case with the necessary legislative changes that would bring Norwegian legislation into line with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities [[CRPD]] But what becomes strange is that when the Advance Party promotes this proposal, the government parties wake right, Christian People's Party and Left. Until last night. 22.10. Right, Christian People's Party and Left were set to vote down all suggestions and not meet anyone at any point. Not only was it a fluke of canossagan, but one later even boasts in the media that you want to make changes to something you were against until 14 hours ago. I hope that the proposals of the Progress Party can have a majority in this Chamber today, and that not only are we going to investigate the consequences, but we are going to say that we are going to make the necessary legislative changes, so that it is in line with the UN Convention – that it will have a majority in the United Kingdom today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1217	That's said a lot, I'm going to try not to repeat too much of what's said earlier in the debate, but just a few words to Solveig Schytz, from the Left, who spent a lot of time describing the situation of people with disabilities, with discrimination in most areas of society. We all agree on that, but it's a good technique to divert attention and get it off the ground today is really about: are we going to incorporate the Convention into the Law of Human Rights or not? Schytz further said that SV and Left have stood alone earlier, and now other parties have changed their position. But that was only half the story. The second part of the story is that the Left, as the representative pointed out, has now also turned, but in the negative direction and gone the opposite way. Geir Tuskedal from the Christian People's Party used much of his post to focus on the red-green government. Yes, I am proud that the red-green government put in place the so-called anti-discrimination law in 2008 – I am very proud of it. I am also proud that we contributed to Norway actually ratifying the Convention in 2013. But then I'm not very satisfied with what happened after we ratified, because things haven't moved in the right direction. And I really feel a little sorry for the Left and Christian People's Party today, who are striving and striving in the debate to give the impression that the proposal of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left is a step in the right direction. For the Council of State, that claim was torpedoed quite emphatically in the reply earlier. Then the Council of State said that the proposal is not an obligation for inclusion to take place when the investigation is completed, it is open. The Council of State also said that it is not an obligation to know what the conclusion is before the elections. That means, then, that the only straight path ahead of the unison demands of organisations to incorporate the convention into the human rights law is a new, red-green government after the election, and then the Left and Christian People's Party can also be allowed to release and vote for what they want primarily. So Michael Tetzschner said in his post that this is where the Storting has to set up with the money. That was an interesting statement, because it was probably pretty straightforward to say that incorporation into the human rights law is actually going to work. But then he said in the same breath that one does not increase the rights of the disabled, not at all, but in case no. 8, which we come to later today, we have a legal basis that shows that incorporation actually strengthens the legal position of conventions in Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1232	You have to be amazed at the Workers' Party for the time being, which seems quite right to change a premise for the accession of the Convention in its time, a premise they themselves delivered to the Storting, namely that they took a position on the relationship between incorporation and normal transformation in Norwegian law. The then red-green government – if anyone remembers that Stoltenberg led it, and as far as I know, SV was also eager participants there – thought, and it was prior to the ratification of the Storting, that the best thing was to introduce the provisions of the Convention in the usual way in sectoral legislation. However, the majority now show that the lack of inclusion of CRPD in the Human Rights Act is a factor in making gender equality more difficult for people with disabilities. Where did they get that? Is there any concrete proposal from these parties that has been voted down by someone who does not want to realise these rights, or does not want to grant money? And then I can also answer the representative of Christoffersen that it also has to do with money when imposing obligations on the state. That's where we distinguish fundamental human rights, which are detention obligations – because it doesn't cost countries, not even the worst states, not to torture their citizens, to suppress political opponents or to put people in prison – and other human rights. But here it is also about resource legislation, where it is important for national knowledge, national priorities to be reviewed. That's why, for the same reasons that the Stoltenberg government argued for in its time, we have to comply with the law, we have committed ourselves to it by means of the Treaty law, but we are the ones dealing with political development and development in this field too, because it may also be that the law, by incorporating it into its full text, as a law of higher rank, also breaks down some other principles and other rights. Let me point to a target conflict that has been promoted, and it is that the parties have expressly reserved themselves against understanding that the rights of disabled persons can be restricted if they do not realise their own best, and thus use a misunderstood concept of autonomy, as the UN Committee wishes, to refuse health care, because in the Nordic legal tradition we emphasise the right to health care over personal autonomy in such a balancing situation. And the fact that one has no sense of these details makes legislation worse, and therefore it is excellent that it is not kitchen proposals that are the basis for changes in Norwegian Convention law, but that it is investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1241	I am recording that the representative Lise Christoffersen says from Stortinget's pulpit that the Left has turned around in this matter. Of course, that's not right. Of course, the left has not turned around. The left has been working for this case for many years, and we will continue to do so. But this is a kind of case that obviously has to be implemented in government. It is in the government that such a job must be done. Therefore, it is a really big step in the right direction that government parties agree to start an investigation of the incorporation of the CRPD. That is why I hope that this proposal will have a majority in the European Parliament today, so that we can move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1246	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1251	It is that someone's human rights, freedom and maritime policy are going to require a little bit more of us, and that we change our society. That's what SV wants. It obviously doesn't want the right, because it's going to cost money. It's all about thinking that you're still allowed to control others because they need some help from society, for example, or that you don't want to spend money on universal design, that you don't want to organize the schools, so that all the students can go to their home school. For this, we have to commit ourselves. Doing this in this way is not new. We've done that with other human rights conventions, so there's nothing special about this technique. And yes, SV meant this when we were in government as well. Now it's almost eight years, and it must be time for the world to move forward a little bit. It does not, therefore, do so with this government, which in its Universal Design Action Plan has even removed the time limits for society to be universally designed. That's what it says.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1256	It's a little strange to listen to the debate that's going on between the government parties and the red-green ones. It seems to me that you're discussing in what order to figure things out. The point of progress is that we want to implement it, and we assume that it is not perceived that the CRPD through transformation has resulted in fulfilling its obligations. If that is the case, there is nothing more natural than the fact that the Stortinget is presented with a matter from the government where we can sort it out, where we can ensure that Norwegian legislation by decision at this level provides precisely for people with disabilities. It is the whole intention of the Progress Party's proposal, and it is also the fastest way to uphold the rights of this group. I am listening with interest to the order and investigation discussion. The Progress Party is committed to safeguarding the People's Government, we are committed to upholding our right to rule Norwegian legislation here in Stortinget, but at the same time we are committed to safeguarding the rights of people with disabilities. This is achieved by adopting today's proposals of the Progress Party. If there is a distance between the CRPD and the current Norwegian legislation, we can very well clean it up, and here we are. Then I register that people from, among other things, The Labour Party expresses concern that the rights of people with disabilities are not being respected. I can agree with that, but we would like to see this happening in Arbeiderparti-steered municipalities. I see, for example: My own municipality of residence, Harstad, which is run by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, where you cannot give BPA, user-led personal assistance, to those who are entitled to it under Norwegian law. And what's the point when we have red-green-steered municipalities out there that don't follow the legal requirements that we've adopted here? One would like to owe money, but this is legislation that the municipalities must also comply with. So it's okay to owe everyone else. I encourage the Workers' Party and the other Red-Green Party to take responsibility for themselves and for the municipalities they actually run.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1265	The representative Michael Tetzschner has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1270	I think I'll be careful to sum up the debate as I've understood it so far, because it's not a single concrete proposal to do it better for the group you say you're burning for. If you look at the actual proposals made by the various participants here in the Chamber – which are aimed at realising the Convention's proposals, which are, of course, the main legal basis – you will see that on such occasions the big words are made, while improvements are made through ordinary law, ordinary appropriations and efforts in the municipalities. I think we should also be aware that we want to have a national margin of discretion in this room. So it's going to leave priorities and policy developments to non-elected bodies outside the country who don't have democratic legitimacy. We're just taking note of that. The position we have today was SV when they were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1278	I have to say that I react very much to posts – perhaps especially to Andersen’s posts – here in the Chamber that are trying to simplify the debate that it is about the money, and that the right side is not for that. I just need to have a strong request. So we're as basic about human rights as everybody else. But there is a clear political disagreement in who will interpret Norwegian laws, who will develop Norwegian laws, and who will stand for that development. I have tried to explain that. In this case in particular, there is a lack of interpretation — not related to money, but to legal capacity and to the care and care of people in a very difficult situation, to mention two examples. It is terribly complicated, and then there is nothing in the way that SV can propose changes to the law in this room and get Norwegian rights to act in accordance with what a committee in the United Nations has interpreted. That has not been done, as far as I know, at least the SV has not received a majority in favour of it. I disagree. I don't want to change these rules, and I disagree with the interpretation made by a UN-appointed committee that is not on the agenda. These are difficult questions that I believe our main elected body should decide – both initiate and decide. Then I register that the representatives Christoffersen and Henriksen are terribly concerned that there has to be a case before the elections. Of course, we're going to try to deliver on that, and it confirms in itself the suspicion that the only thing that has changed over the years since this convention was ratified is that it's elections this year. I'm assuming that others also notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1285	To the Council of State: Yes, it's elections this year, but it's not the only thing that's changed. What's also changed is the position the Workers' Party has taken, and we haven't hidden it, there's been a process ahead of it, there's been a gradual development, not least influenced by the fact that we have our own so-called functional network, which provides advice when the party is going to decide on important issues for people with disabilities. This has led to a change. So it was to Michael Tetzschner: there's not a single concrete suggestion to do it better for people with disabilities. – No, that’s not the case we are discussing today, but Tetzschner is cordially welcome to all the issues we have in the Labour and Social Committee that are about that, and where proposals on proposals have been voted down. Karin Andersen may have mentioned one of the most important: deadlines for Norway to be universally designed in all areas of society, where man-made barriers are to be removed. We had a deadline, and it was removed by today's government, and we have been agreed to introduce new deadlines. Job guarantees for young people with a job capacity were downgraded, which is one of the reasons why the number and proportion of young people who are disabled increase worryingly. We have not received a majority in favour of job guarantees for people with developmental disabilities. There's just a few examples. So the representative Solvency Schytz says that the left has not turned, but that things have to be done in government. No, it can also happen with orders from the Storting, there are many examples of it from recent times. To Per-Willy Amundsen, that the Progress Party is conducting: Yes, well. Red-green municipalities out there that don't implement should sort of go on their own, and then you should kind of sweep at your own door. But what about universal design, the reduction of barriers and the elimination of discrimination against people with disabilities in the municipalities of the Progress Party governing or forming part of the majority? Is it just in those municipalities? This is about local economy, which is governed from here, and which we have also been voted down to strengthen. So ask both Tetzschner and Meland about who is really going to decide Norwegian laws, and say it's about giving away national discretion. I have never – I think – heard that argument used in connection with e.g. the Women’s Convention or the Children’s Convention, but precisely in the case of people with disabilities, there is a huge, much larger problem than for other groups. At the end of the day, I just want to remember that the discrimination officer also appeals to the Stortinget today to adopt the proposal for inclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1300	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1317	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the allocated speaking time in the debate will be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes, and the President will organise the debate as follows: the Labour Party and the Right 25 minutes, the Progress Party 15 minutes, the Central Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1324	Report. St. 5 for 2020-2021, Social security in an uncertain value, doing good for government policies in social security for the four coming years, and being the second social security major message under the Solberg Government. Previous message, Report. St. 10 for 2016–2017, Risk in a safe society, focused on preparedness. In this message attention will be paid to prevention. On the basis of the challenge picture, the government has done its utmost to promote and promote action within the following seven themes: the covid-19 pandemic, civil-military cooperation and total defence, prevention of national security, digital security, complex threats, prevention and preparedness locally and regionally and prevention, preparedness and rescue services in our most northern maritime areas. In addition, the message contains its own chapter on research and development, on international cooperation and on ongoing and implemented measures taken by the government. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. The setting is almost as long as the message, so there is no doubt that social security is involved. That's very good. It has also been a good commitment from many different hearing agencies that have given valuable input and view of the message. Ensuring the security of citizens is one of the most important tasks of the state. In the last police survey, a total of 94 pst. of us it feels safe to stay and live where we are. Norway is a stable and democratic society with a low level of conflict and a high level of trust between people and between people and governments, which provides a very good starting point for work on social security. The government has contributed to a strong rise in this area in the last seven years. All the recommendations of the Yard Commission are now followed up. Much has been done to protect the country and people from terror. The police have been given an enormous boost, both through 3,600 new police posts and through new and modern equipment and better methods. Several major and important investments have been made, such as a new emergency centre, object protection and the establishment of secure data centres in the justice sector. Police have got new and larger helicopters with better transport capacity. There is an agreement on 24-hour continuous helicopter standby for the police in North Norway. In addition, the police have agreed both with the loco-helicoptera to the Coast Guard and with the Air ambulance on the use of their helicopter resources where necessary. The rescue service is strengthened by 16 new and less weather-dependent rescue helicopters to replace today's Sea King fleet – some are already in place. A new rescue helicopter base will be created in Tromsø to strengthen preparedness in North Norway. In 2020, HF coverage was created in the northernmost seas, up to the North Pole, in order to retain the responsibility of Norway for the rescue response in a highly demanding area of increased maritime traffic. The grid has been developed and used throughout the country, which has meant a great deal to local and regional preparedness. 1 000 organisations and more than 59 000 subscribers from different emergency and emergency services are currently using this important communication tool. Fire training is strengthened by the establishment of a new fire and rescue personnel training school at the Norwegian Fire School in Teldsund, and civil defence has provided additional means of training, basic training, personnel, equipment and maintenance. Measures in the national digital security strategy amount to 1.6 billion. includes competence measures and a new national technical security package to strengthen and further develop capabilities to deal with serious digital attacks. A national cybersecurity centre is established in the NSM, as a focal point for national and international cooperation in the detection, management, analysis and consultation of digital attacks. At Kripos, a private cybercrime centre, a spearhead in the police force has been created to prevent and investigate crime in the digital space. New insurance laws to adapt today's challenge picture have also come into place. In the message, the government gives a good picture of the pitfalls, risks and vulnerabilities that can and probably will also affect us, and at the same time gives a good idea of what measures to put in place in the coming years to meet them. This will take place through both regulatory development, security measures and the further development of knowledge and competences, where the preventive perspective will be a constant basis, in order to strengthen our capacity to protect our values and enhance the resilience of society. In recent years, individual communities and the country as a whole have been facing major preparedness tests. The summer of 2018 brought a long and extensive drought with the following forest and terrain industries. Fluctuations and slippages have caused more communities to lose their lives and to bring great values. This happened in Jölster in 2019 and later in the terrible mercury class in Gjerdrum now in the rum Christmas. We all held the breath during the engine failure of the Viking Sky cruise ship at Hustadvika in 2019, when more than 1 300 people on board were in danger of death. When events occur, it is good to record that response agents find each other and interact well. These are feedback that has been received following evaluations of various events. Local, regional and central response actors emphasise this as a major improvement that has occurred in recent years, not least due to more exercises, emergency networks and more focus on the value of cooperation. I have not least noticed that voluntary efforts are being put forward as an invaluable value when crises occur. We're now in a global pandemic, a state of consequences that we haven't seen in modern times. The Coronapandemic affects all aspects of society and the way we associate with each other and live our lives. Norway has so far come out of the pandemic, both economically and also in the number of corona-related deaths. For those who have lost one of their loved ones, who stand without a job, are permissive or know long-term loneliness, this is of course a poor comfort, but we are in it, we are far on the way to the same measures, and we have a state that has economic muscles to set up. The coronary apathy has undoubtedly revealed vulnerabilities in health preparedness. This will be taken into account, as well as the construction of storage facilities for infectious diseases and some important medicines and the building-up of intensive capacity are now taking place in the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The loyalty and the upswing that people in Norway have shown in this time is almost unique in a world-class context. Trust also in times of crisis is a value that cannot be valued enough. I would also say that international cooperation under the pandemic has been successful. We've managed to keep the trade up, we've been able to get infective equipment and other necessary materials, and we've been able to develop vaccines at record speed. The message provides an image of your work with the pandemic handling, but no evaluation. The mission has been given to the independent Corona Commission. The review and evaluation by the Commission will undoubtedly contribute to learning and provide useful information to meet future pandemics in the best possible way. The overall defence programme was closed in 2020, but the overall defence will be an important area for the government’s future as well. Civil-military cooperation is important in order to maximise the pooling of resources of society. There are several areas in which the total defence can be improved and further developed in the future. The message takes this into account in actions proposed. The intelligence service and the security service of the police refer to a picture of a change and increase the digital risk. This will make it even more important in the future to give priority to the work on digital security, both in governance, in businesses and for individuals. We are pleased that the government will continue to strengthen national digital security and strengthen international cooperation on these challenges. Now I see that the time is running out. Finally, I would like to refer to the many proposals that have led to the matter. Many of the proposals are given multiple numbers today, but not support by the Right – not because they cannot be good, but because many of them are already at work, belong to the home in the management of the budget, or should not be adopted without a greater professional distribution. I'll come back to the suggestions we're supporting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1366	In order to ensure people’s security, it is essential that we have an honest debate on preparedness in Norway – on what works, what we should improve, and where the major shortcomings are. There has been no lack of key preparedness plans and strategies since the Vulnerability Committee in 2000 or since the Gjørv Commission submitted its report in 2012. When terror hit Norway in 2011, we were not primarily vulnerable because there were no plans, but because the ability to recognise risks was too small. The Djørv Commission pointed to several issues that had to be corrected, including: on the good forces that did not exist, and on the importance of culture, management and interaction. Today, we are more prepared at national level to face crises, in particular terrorism, but when the Storting is addressing the social security message, the majority in the UK will oblige the government to step up efforts in a number of areas. It is difficult not to see it as a correction to the government for a lack of willingness to recognise weaknesses that are also present in preparedness today. The Workers' Party believes that preparedness is lacking in important areas. Firstly, there are major shortcomings in the immediate preparedness, which are closest to the people. Secondly, the co-operation problems are not solved. Thirdly, we believe that preparedness is weakened by inflation of targets and unclear priorities along with privatisation and increased fragmentation. Fourthly, there is a lack of action to prevent and prevent the consequences of vulnerability in areas such as health preparedness, food security, digital security and communication — conditions that we address in the setting. The working party believes that a change of pace is necessary in the response to this preparedness. The biggest and most urgent change to come is the strengthening of local preparedness and voluntary rescue organisations. The requirements for municipalities have increased, but the resources and attention from the state have not increased accordingly. Voluntary activities are increasing, but the parties on volunteering have not been followed up with action. We are pleased that today there will be a majority for a number of proposals that will strengthen the voluntary organisations – those who are preparing for different stages and crises and are all of us prepared for Easter or at the beach in the summer. Increased basic support, coverage of subscription costs, support for equipment and training, more exercises and better interaction with the public will improve the daily lives of voluntary organisations. We all earn that. It is also overtime to strengthen the community, close preparedness. All crises occur in a municipality. It has to be planned. It has to be done enough and with all relevant actors. The situation is not satisfactory today. Municipalities must be given resources, and the state must set up with, among others. regional training centres providing co-treatment and enhancing competence. Today, the government is notifying the government that, against the votes of the government parties, they must start work on strengthening local and voluntary preparedness. The Gjørv Commission identified fundamental problems with the interaction of the Norwegian emergency response system as one of its main findings. We have got our own interoperability principle for preparedness, but there are still challenges in terms of interoperability. The major research project Nexus at NTNU and Sintef pointed out, among others: they find no evidence that the coordination problem has been resolved. Much good work has been done in this area, it is important to point out, but we are concerned that there are no significant new measures in the social security message to address the challenge. We believe that there is a need for a boost for cooperative exercises, and that leaders at all levels of government need to strengthen their own and their organisations' culture and attitudes to interaction, as recommended by the 22 July Commission. Today there will be a majority, against the votes of the government parties, for the proposals to establish a long-term plan of preparedness and social security and a majority of a permanent total preparedness committee including both public, private and voluntary actors. Here I would just like to draw attention to the fact that we are proposing a change to paragraph 11 of the recommendation on the Total Emergency Committee, which has also been submitted to the Secretariat. The change is that such a sample is to be reported to the government, not to the Storing. That's going to be constitutionally correct, and I see that the other parts that are behind the recommendation also join this change. The Social Security Communication covers a number of areas, and we are pleased that the government is taking a number of steps, but we believe that there are no answers and responses to key response challenges. Food security is hardly mentioned in the message. That something so crucial as that people get food on the table, almost not mentioned in the message, is worrying. Supply lines must be secured, food producers must be safeguarded against risk, and measures to ensure electricity, health and transport must be in place. Digital security is about mobile phones and PCs, the network, which today binds us together to a greater and greater extent, works and is protected from attacks. There must be stronger measures than the government has proposed. Two measures that can be mentioned from this point of view among the many that we have promoted in the opposition are that the public should have its own cloud resolution and not rely on foreign companies to store sensitive information. Unfortunately, the parties of government are allowed to vote by the majority rather than to join in on a sensible proposal. Secondly, we must cover the alarming lack of ICT personnel in both public and private sectors. The Labour Party has for many years proposed far more places to study in order to increase its skills, but the government has opposed them. Health preparedness has also been highly debated in the last year, and for good reason. The fact that the majority of the population today join together, against the votes of the government parties, in order to decide that the government needs to increase pandemic preparedness, increase production capacity and increased access to infectious equipment and emergency storage of essential medicinal products, is important and shows that the majority is not satisfied with the provision of health protection. Pandemi has been mentioned in the emergency reports from, among others: DSB as one of the most likely preparedness events where there may be potentially significant consequences for life and health. That is why Stortinget's grip is necessary. Preparedness is not just about police, hospitals and money allocated for different purposes. We need a total defense, but we also need a broad contingency plan. The attack on the Al-Noor mosque in 2019 was a terrible reminder that we in Norway have not yet made an adequate settlement with the goods and the hatred that lies behind both the attack on the Al-Noor mosque, July 22 and other events. I am among those who believe that we have not had a sufficiently honest debate on what responsibility we have to stop hateful expressions, conspiracy theories and extremist thoughts. It's not a responsibility I put on any individual parties or individuals, but I would like to stress that it's a management responsibility in politics, in the police, in society to counteract extremism and hateful expressions. It's part of the broad contingency plan. When the Labour Party says that an honest debate on preparedness is needed, I personally believe that it also says that the debate has not been sufficiently honest in recent years. One cannot escape the lesson of July 22 in a discussion on preparedness, and July 22 is still a difficult topic. This may have caused many to hold back their concerns. Nor has the debate been honest enough by the government when it has often seemed difficult to recognise the concerns that have sometimes been raised. In many debates in the last six months, including today, we have heard representatives of the government parties say that all the recommendations of the Gjørv Commission have been followed up or completed. That's not true. We still have challenges in terms of preparedness in Norway, and if we are to improve the safety of people in Norway, that risk has to be recognised. I am promoting with this the proposals of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1404	The representative Martin Henriksen then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1409	Security for countries and people is not one of the most important tasks of the state, as I was perceived by a previous speaker today. It is the country's most important task to protect people from internal and external enemies. It is absolutely fundamental, it is about the legitimacy of the state, the whole foundation of state formation. Then we have to deliver. Then we must have a defence and a defence capable of protecting ourselves against the external enemies, and we must have police and preparedness to take care of the citizens against the internal enemies. It's our most important task, according to the definition of the Progress Party. So what does it look like after the Progress Party has been in government for six years and has been responsible for the police and preparedness field in particular? What can be pointed out from the situation in 2013, when it became a government change, and to the Progress Party went out of government in January 2020? Well, on what might be a spring day, the first spring day in the capital, it's a very clear message: it's much better, you've moved on. We have a better preparedness, we have a better developed police force, we are much better able to handle events in a variety of areas. There is no doubt about it, and I do not believe that the other opposition disagrees with the Progress Party. But that doesn't mean we're going to say we're happy, done the job and go home. The emergency response never ends. We have to keep raising it, we have to keep working on it, and we have to keep remembering this important work and keep working. That's why we are in that situation that the Progress Party today, despite the fact that we believe that a very good job has been done with the Advance Party in government in this field, will form a majority of too many proposals along with the other opposition parties. That's what the Progress Party is doing because we're voting for what we're in favour of, and we're voting against what we're against. We are not a support party for the government, but we stand on what is the Advance Party's preparedness policy. And we are promoting a lot of different proposals that are also of a new nature. To take a few examples, we suggest setting up a separate Ministry of the Interior. Of course, it has to be up to the government, but I know that the Minister of Justice probably has his hands full with a lot of tasks, and it may be that it would make sense to divide this department into justice and domestic affairs. We also want to strengthen the crisis support unit in the Ministry of Justice. We want information campaigns on protective measures to enable the population itself to know better how to deal with crises, as we have been through the last year. An example also – to think about new things: a common phone number for the emergency beds, a kind of Norwegian 911, if you like. With regard to the coronary pandemic, I will allow myself to be a little pointed: I wish the Minister of Health had spent as much time preparing Norway for a pandemic before March 2020 that he has spent time holding press conferences after March 2020. It's simply because what we experienced last year, and which is still blaming us, was a very long-awaited crisis. The pandemic was at the top of the list of events that could have a major impact on society and that we had to be prepared to deal with. The experience so far shows that we were not able to handle it enough. It's about our ability to produce drugs, medical devices, our ability to have warehouses, our ability to initiate self-production. It's about being able to have a public-private partnership that we can benefit from. All these things we are proposing, which means that, when the need is there, we can start new production lines. But it's also about doing something to prevent violence and assault, which unfortunately happens in the shadow of the pandemic. There we also have a majority decision challenging the government. As far as terrorism in particular is concerned, this government has really delivered through the Ministry of Justice. It's about strengthening the PST and a historic strengthening of the police, it's not to be overlooked if you discuss the police reform up and down in this room. But we also propose that we go further. We can't stop now. The police need to be built on, the PST needs to be strengthened more, and we need to have more exercises, we need to have more courses, we need more training in civil, which can be more prepared to deal with crises that can come. One of the things – or maybe that thing, that thing – that I'm most proud of in the Progress Party period in the Ministry of Justice is that we were able to establish the National Emergency Response Centre of the Police. It is a unique resource that enables us to have a rapid response, deploy the response force, the bombing team, the crisis and hostage dealers, use the police helicopter service to act quickly on events that may occur on Norwegian soil – the ability to combat terrorism on Norwegian soil. But we also see it in other situations, such as the Gerdrum. There we got a real demonstration of the usefulness of the National Emergency Response Centre of the police. That's why I think it's a little good to remember the red-green, and maybe also the Left and Christian People's Party, about the history behind the National Emergency Centre of the Police. It was originally Stoltenberg and his government who wanted to set up an emergency centre at Alnabru. We know the end of it: it didn't go very well, it didn't go well, it didn't go well, it didn't go well, it didn't go well, it didn't go well, it didn't go well, it didn't go well with the needs that were there – it didn't exist on Alnabru. The project had to be scrapped. The government Progress Party put in, which I think was perhaps a slightly different government, was able to plan in record time and make sure that we delivered on time and under budget a fantastic emergency centre that is now on Taraldrud. But there was no easy way there. It was a road that had to be fought against the red-greens, which now seems to be great and nice to brag by the National Emergency Centre of the Police. They did what they could to stop this in this room, and so far also the Left and Christian People's Party. Today's Minister of Culture was well among those who fought most against the National Emergency Response Centre of the Police. But we stood out, we made sure to use the tools that were necessary. We had to expropriate when the landowners wanted ten times in compensation for their plots. We fought together and got a regulation in place that allowed us to implement the project, and finally got a decision in Stortinget. But it wasn't obvious. I think that especially the red-greens should philosophize a little bit over. Today, everyone is satisfied. Today, everyone boasts of it. But the way there was not easy. Then I register that more people talk about the volunteers. Yes, it is important to take care of the voluntary resources. It is one of the most fundamental things we have that enables us to build good Norwegian preparedness – all the volunteers who set up when accidents and incidents are out. They're priceless. Then it is, I think, very sad that we still have not managed to ensure that those who leave the job, who choose to leave their job to set up when it is race or some other event, do not even get compensated for their lost income to set up. The Progress Party is proposing this today. We don't get a majority. The centre party and SV support our proposal to compensate income losses for the volunteers who set up on behalf of society, but the Labour Party only wants to investigate it. We could have solved this today. I record that there is a lot of party talk about volunteering, but you don't really do it. Then I'll take up the suggestions we're part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1445	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1450	Social security is a theme that focuses on everything from the big structures of society – with cold words like etats and directorates – to the smallest and most vulnerable individual. It's security for human beings and our lives it's all about. It has to ensure the best possible future for us as people, despite the fact that we know that there are crises and periods of unrest of different kinds. It's a strength that we're here to land a lot of things, but it's still worth looking at what we're not about. Of course, different policy priorities have implications for how our society can cope with different crises in the future. For us in the Central Party, it is important to recognise the need for people to be safe, both in the city and the countryside, and both in the north and in the south. We see that there is a lot of similarity, but that the need for action and bets can also be different in different places. We also mean that it is more important to spend money on actual services and actions than too much on bureaucracy. Under the Solberg government, which has had changing party constellations, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have been responsible for the huge increase in the use of money for bureaucracy and consulting services within institutions that are important for social security. We in the Central Party have got rice because we in our alternative state budget for this year have probably cut 18 million. DSB. It can sound dramatic, but it's not. Because at the same time, we're proposing to increase by over 55 million. kr to the Civil Protection Agency, Emergency Network and voluntary organisations, which are under the same Directorate, DSB. It's going to be a net increase of over 37 million. to social security and preparedness. If our own cut proposal had got multiples – it doesn't – then DSB would be able to bring it back with e.g. reducing the cost of consultants by less than 10 pst. The Central Party is investing more in social security than the government in its alternative state budget, and we will focus our efforts on civil defence, on the voluntary organisations in the rescue and emergency services and on more emergency terminals in small municipalities and voluntary organisations rather than bureaucrats in the directorate and department. We're in a time of crisis because of the coronary apathy. Throughout the government period with government councils from the Progress Party and the Right, DSB has assessed pandemic as the most realistic crisis scenario. Nevertheless, in 2020, panic purchases of vector equipment to 3.2 billion have been carried out. NOK, as we could read in the VG on March 4. It is obvious that the government has not adhered to the professional assessments that were made. DSB. The government has also shown little ability to absorb the birth rate from the underlying levels in the justice sector. In their open threat assessments, PST has been explicitly warning against the purchase of businesses and businesses from countries with which we do not have security policy cooperation. Nevertheless, in 2021 the government has shown a failing judgment in a matter in which a Norwegian company that delivers technology to the Defense is sold to Russia. This will allow Russian owners to take responsibility for the maintenance of engines for coastguard ships and for the E-service of their ships, as well as for access to technologies of which the Russians are interested. The center party believes it is serious that the government has not intervened in the hall and used the security laws from the start. So over to the developments around our country: one might be tricked to think that everything is going forward just the distances are getting bigger when one belongs to the government and the Progress Party. The so-called near-police reform was about massive centralisation and would give more police on wheels and better preparedness as a big gain. There are not many weeks since a capacity study for the police, prepared by the Police Directorate, showed that the gain has been in just two more years for patrol activity during the reform period. Two more years of work is the same thing as one ninth of the day-to-day patrol. So we haven't got a single extra patrol in our entire long country. More than 120 loner offices have been created to achieve a result that has not come. This is embarrassingly bad when the goal was better social security. But does the government and the Progress Party admit the fades? No, self-intellect must still give way to self-crustness. It seems that more bureaucracy is easier to get in place than operational police. There have been 725 more bureaucrats and administrative additions to central police bureaucracy under this government. In response to a written question from me in November, the Council of State stated that the growth in the number of members of the Police Directorate, POD, under this government has been over 60 pst. In comparison, the growth in police districts has been 24 p.m. So there has been more than twice as much growth in POD as in the police districts under the Justice Ministers from the Progress Party and the Right. POD does not have any operational role during crises in addition to coordinating information and, where appropriate, assessing which resources are to be prioritised. It's the operatives, the police patrols and the local police that, together with the local fire department, the ambulance service, the volunteers and the municipalities that do the job in the community, and that's where the Center Party wants to spend the money. The police directorate is today about three times as big as the intention when the directorate was created in 2001. The centre party believes this is a wrong development and poor use of society's resources, and we are therefore going in to put down POD and to restore tasks and responsibilities both to the Ministry of Justice and to the police districts. It will also be able to strengthen social security, because, as mentioned at the outset, political priorities will influence how society manages crises. Strong nudetaties that are fast in place when something happens are, of course, entirely decisive for our social security. Today's way of measuring response time means that the mission with the longest time use is omitted from the statistics of both the police and the ambulance service. Therefore, response time appears to be artificially good in areas that actually have a poor response time. We in the Center Party believe that there must be a response time requirement for the emergency services at municipal level in order to get a better overview of how fast they are actually in place in the whole country. When response time requirements are at national level, enterprise level or district level, the etatons could easily reach requirements because of a certain percentage – 10 pst. for ambulances and 20 pst. for the police, not signed up. This applies to the tasks that take the longest time, which are excluded from the statistics. However, in key areas, large quantities of fast-to-achieve tasks will make the statistics look better than if the requirements were set at municipal level. In the case of ambulances, it is worth noting that both the Delta Ambulance Association and the Trade Union recently agreed that the calculation basis for response time in the ambulance services must be based on all actual tasks per municipality, not on the average. Both in 2017 and 2020, the Central Party presented proposals for the setting-up of a Global Emergency Commission. We are disappointed that the Government Party and the Progress Party voted down the proposals, because what we need is a completely different and better approach to total preparedness in society. It's been over 20 years since the last time Norway had a thorough review of all parts of our preparedness. Much has happened both here and abroad. New technologies provide new opportunities, but also create new threats. New ways to implement terrorism are cause for concern, and the pandemic shows us how vulnerable we are if we get even more infectious and/or dangerous diseases in circulation. Our food preparedness is under pressure because we are becoming more and more inhabitants, while agricultural land is growing again. I think it's both sad and daunting to read what the Right Party and the Progress Party write in their comments to the Committee on this matter. It seems that they are not in contact with the ground and think that everything should be taken care of only because the Nordics will change their diet if necessary. Right and the Progress Party will write this in the following setting: ‘In a long-term crisis situation with complete isolation, we will be able to shift our diet. We wanted, among other things: eaten more Norwegian potatoes, cream and flat bread with flour which cannot be used for normal baking. We would then become much more self-sufficient." Firstly, adequate production of protein-containing food such as meat, eggs and milk is required to maintain adequate self-sufficiency, and then we have to have enough open grass and grazing land in this country. Secondly, we need enough farmers spread all over the country to use these areas to produce food. Of course, the fish comes in and is important if imports stop, but we're going to be totally dependent on agriculture if we're going to satisfy the population. And the potato and the grain that the Right and the Advance Party want to eat in a crisis situation, must also be produced on areas that haven't even grown again. This should have a much more conscious relationship with the two parties. They won't even support our proposal in the Centre Party on the storage of feed grain and food grain for at least six months of consumption. Willingness is about having as much as possible clear before serious situations and crises occur, and about seeing to it both the imaginable and the unmistakable. We see that the government has not even managed to predict what was possible, and to warn, like the pandemic. The centre party believes it is a national responsibility to protect its own population, and by that we also believe that it must of course be national production of food for real self-sufficiency, it must be national production of infectious equipment and production and emergency storage of vital medicines, etc. Finally, I take up the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1504	Then the representative Jenny Klinge mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1509	We are currently handling a very large and comprehensive message. It's both a strength and a weakness. The strength is, of course, that the government here is trying to present a comprehensive plan for preparedness and security challenges in Norway. The weakness is that we can't go into the depths of things and that the debate is going to be jumping. We might have to live with that. There are a lot of suggestions that come up in this discussion, and the opposition has got a majority too much, but despite it, it's hard to read that there's some very big ideological disagreement between the different parties here. We see, for example: that there is a cross-political agreement that it is the public sector, i.e. the State, which is responsible for emergency measures in Norway. This is not obvious. I have lived ashore with these kinds of challenges that – with the same kind of description of the challenges – may feel that they need to be solved exclusively by private action, i.e. by the addition of guard companies, more armaments, a wall around the house, etc. In this plan, the public sector is largely responsible for prevention, and that is good. Then I would like to point out that there are some general defects in this message that I have tried to describe in between in our comments. I perceive that the message bears the mark that we are going to have a broad national focus on our actions, while the threats described are coming from outside. Whether it's pandemic, terror, war or natural disasters, the measures are to be put in place locally or nationally, and there may be a huge limitation in the way we deal with this. Let's take the pandemic, for example, which definitely comes from outside. We believe from my party that it is not enough that we look at emergency measures solely from a national handling point of view. I am addressing here how, as a major action in this area, we need to work more to limit pandemics internationally, secure global, fair health care and strengthen cooperation and funding for international vaccine cooperation. We've dealt with it with patent rights. If we can do something about it, we might limit the monopoly of pharmaceutical companies and put in place a production of vaccines around the world or in a lot of countries. So the message is largely based on a national perspective for dealing with the pandemic. The same applies to migration, which is addressed, where it has a national perspective. It describes how migration creates preparedness challenges. My colleagues in the Centre Party and the Workers' Party describe this as something that needs to be solved by, for example, Strengthening border control, while believing that prevention efforts need to be more closely linked to international cooperation and focus on, for example: European interaction and strengthening of conventions. We can also bring this with race and pace and natural disasters. Instead of looking only at their solution from a local and national perspective, the Communication could in fact also address how this needs to be addressed through a completely different international perspective on climate change prevention. Then we get right into the Norwegian debate on Norwegian oil production, instead of just looking at the national and local handling. I believe that this message bears the mark of a weakness by looking at the threats as coming from outside, while the measures are only to be solved nationally or locally, instead of entering into a larger, perhaps international and global perspective. I'm going to use the last seconds to record one last thing. It is also a challenge with the very concept of preparedness used in this Communication. The concept of preparedness is linked exclusively to threats that come from outside, as I have described, but there is a much greater risk of being exposed, for example. for domestic violence or rape rather than being exposed to a pandemic, a war or a terrorist incident, but these things, which actually pose a likely threat to individuals, are not included in this Communication as preparedness challenges. We see that as a major weakness, because it also leads to the focus solely on threats from the outside – and it is those who receive attention and budget – while the most serious threats to individuals actually come from within. Unfortunately, this is not part of the message, and it is a weakness.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1528	We live in uncertain times. As stated in the Social Security Communication, our prosperity is largely based on international trade and cross-border investment. We are totally dependent on the world market functioning for important trading systems. We are totally dependent on the functioning of the world market for important commodities. It's a good thing, and it's contributed to wealth and growth for decades, but it also makes us vulnerable. More than anything, the Coronapandemic has reminded us of how globalisation can quickly spread serious infectious diseases and put established social structures at risk. The pandemic has affected individual freedom and society as a whole for a long time. Ironically, the coronary crisis has been marked by rebreeding nationalism. The countries that have harvested the fruits of international cooperation for decades have slowly withdrawn from it. But precisely because the pandemic is global, the solutions must also be. The global perspective also highlights many of the challenges identified in the Communication on Social Security. It's indispensable. Climate change is the biggest challenge of our time, with consequences both globally and locally. Because greenhouse gas emissions do not know country boundaries, they cannot be solved alone. In Norway, climate change will include: lead to increasing temperatures, more precipitation and higher sea levels. It increases the risk of natural disasters. A climate-friendly society is able to limit or avoid climate-related damage. Therefore, climate adaptation is so important for social security, and in the future there will have to be a greater role to play in preparedness planning. Prevention will be the main theme of social security and preparedness in the future. I am pleased that the government will strengthen the prevention work, including: through legislative development, the implementation of safeguard measures and the further development of knowledge and competences. That's not all we can prevent, but together we can come up with the good proposals and find the best solutions to create a safest society, a society that carries into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1540	The Social Security Communication illustrates that we live in a much more uncertain world than we did a few years ago. In the last decade, Norway has been affected by various societal threats. We will never forget July 22nd or the attack on the Al-Noor mosque and the killing on Johanne Ihle-Hansen. Since the accession of the government of Solberg, the commitment to preparedness and security has been absolutely essential in the way we continue to build the country. We've also noticed other threats in the last year. We have had large flood areas, breeds, storms, and in the summer of 2018 it was dry. In 2020, the whole world was affected by a common threat, the covid-19 pandemic, and subsequent discussions on medicinal products, food safety and ICT security. The pandemic is the most serious crisis we've experienced since World War II. Just before we went into 2021, Gjerdrum was hit by a huge mercury trail. Many lost their lives. The family is in the process of grieving and the municipality of reorganization. The Social Security Communication reflects in a good way the threats our small country faces. It's not possible to create a risk-free society, but we can still take control of what we can control. That is why I am very pleased that the communication points to prevention work and the principle of responsibility. In addition, prevention is economically viable. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the voluntary assistance and rescue services that are involved in ensuring the security of the population and Norway. But this leads me to something that we can never decide, namely trust in each other. In Norway, we have a free and independent press to disseminate a picture of the world as it is. We know, however, that there are many actors who do not necessarily want us well, and who see themselves profited by the fact that trust between us is confusing, that disinformation is flourishing. Only under the pandemic have we seen many people who have seen fit to spread misinformation. I'm glad the government takes the problem seriously. We have a number of media policy instruments, such as new media law, media responsibility law and media supervision. In addition, Norway is already working in several international forums on the topic. The pandemic has also provided the basis for debates on the value of international cooperation, where we have also seen unfortunate entries. More than ever, we see the densely intertwined world we live in. Norway is completely dependent on an international and rule-driven order. It concerns the WHO, EEA, EFTA and an active part of NATO. Here at home, we're developing the total defense program. In crises, we have a number of actors who each day prepare for the worst, but hope for the best. The establishment of a total defence council is a real maneuver. In this way, all the different actors can be properly coordinated by the head of defence, so that we can have seamless interaction between civil society and national defence. It is not just the defence alone that must ensure, and not just through budgets, plans and strategies. The Prime Minister himself has said that what is worth most, more than the oil fund, is trust in each other. A few years ago, a young boy in Bergen had ordered an airline ticket to become a member of a terrorist organization. He told the outside contact in Bergen that he had nothing to live for. In his view, he might as well die. Don't go, said out of touch, what can I do? He pointed to three things: leisure activity, a job and a place to live. It's the key to living a good life in the country and not going outside. It shows the following: there's not that long distance between being outside and living a good life. Between these two extremes, once again, there is a place to live, a leisure activity and a job. I say these things because there is one thing we can never legislate or write as measures in government or municipal plans, but that is absolutely essential to our social security, namely inclusion and humanity – the care that we nordics have for each other, that health centres, kindergartens, schools, neighborhoods and colleagues capture children, youth and adults who can potentially go deep outside. The responsibility for seeing each other and talking about each other is a duty we have as a Northman, in a good way. Taking control of what we can control, making risk analyses, training on crisis scenarios is a responsibility of the authorities. Gray zones, we politicians should be active on the road to remove. That's why the Social Security Communication is a good direction for further security work, and it's very happy with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1563	2020 has clearly demonstrated the importance of the work on social security. The Covid-19 pandemic, the Gjerdrum scrambling disaster and digital attacks, among others. Hydro, state administrators and the Eastern Toten municipality have tested and illustrated the scope of the challenge. The government is working purposefully and systematically to improve social security and preparedness. The Communication presents key elements of government policy from a four-year perspective. On the basis of the challenge picture, the government in its second public awareness communication on social security promotes actions in seven areas: civil-military cooperation, national security, complex threats, digital security, local and regional prevention and rescue preparedness in the north. The notification also provides a description of the handling of the covid-19 pandemic. In addition, the importance of prevention is underlined. By preventing this, we reduce the possibility of adverse events occurring and the costs of prevention can be significantly lower than the costs of handling incidents and repairing injuries. At the same time, the economic framework in the years ahead will increase the need for demanding priorities in the field of social security. The work on the notification has been closely coordinated with the work on the new long-term plan for the defence sector. Key issues have been the security policy image, civil-military cooperation and total defence, complex threats and national security. The message addresses challenges and issues where the police have a role, but does not contain assessments of the police’s capabilities or of work on further development of the police, because in the summer of 2020 we promoted our own big message about just the police, which the Storting has recently addressed. The approach mentions 76 different measures in total, several of which naturally fall within the responsibilities of other government councils. There are 49 Roman number decisions, of which 25 seem to have a majority behind in the Storing. Many of them address issues addressed in the Social Security Communication and where government has already undertaken important work. It is a citizen of an interesting and important debate here today on further efforts to strengthen social security and preparedness in Norway. At the same time, I must probably allow myself to say that we do not yet know the financial costs of the majority proposals. Therefore, it will be important how we will be faced with demanding priority weightings in the context of this important work in the future, within a tighter economic framework. With that, I look forward to an important debate here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1578	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1583	This social security message was an opportunity to highlight the important work done by the voluntary rescue service in Norway. Unfortunately, that has not happened. I have registered that the government and various government councils on several occasions have boasted of the voluntary rescue service, but these parties have not been turned into bets. An example of this is that in 2018 there was a report from the National Rescue Council with a wide range of recommendations on how to strengthen the voluntary organisations, such as Norwegian People's Aid, the Rescue Company and the Red Cross. It looks like that report has been put in a drawer. Therefore, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre – and with the support of the Progress Party on most of the proposals – promote several measures to strengthen the voluntary rescue service. My question to the Council of State is simply: Why did the government not use this opportunity to strengthen the voluntary rescue service with concrete measures and resources through increased support?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1590	We've presented a big shot, not a state budget. In this big message, the volunteers are significantly addressed. They have a huge task in the rescue work. We saw the last thing in Gjerdrum, and I've seen it related to fire in Seatsdal and to floods in parts of the country. They constitute an important resource, they do an important job, and therefore, over the years, the government has made historical additions. For example, the rescue company has: has gone from receiving about 56 million. kr per year at 126 mill. kr per year, so that they are duly referred to as part of the rescue management and as a significant resource in the rescue work. They should also be in the future, and we now used extra resources in connection with the pandemic, for example. on emergency network subscriptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1595	The government's administration of the Security Act has also been central to the social security message. Today, the Minister of Justice warned that the government will now stop the sale of Bergen Engines and problematize it against the Security Act, even though only a few weeks ago the Ministry of Economic Affairs heard that this was a trade between two commercial operators that the government had nothing to do with. My question to the Minister of Justice is: When does the government start to assess this sale against the Security Act? Was it before or after the announcement from the government that this was a trade between two commercial operators?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1602	It is such that Rolls-Royce, in a proper manner, reported a possible sale to the State in mid-December. It was a message that went to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the export track. That communication was forwarded to the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and then to the Ministry of Defence. In connection with those notifications, all departments began to do a job in the case of the forthcoming sale. So different departments have made different assessments, of course, related to the defence policy, industrial policy, trade policy and, for our part, the civil sector. We have said today that based on that work – which, understandably, the government has spent a little longer time than the opposition on the Stortinget – it is our opinion that there is uncertainty about the risk this poses to national interests. That is why we have informed the company that the forthcoming trade must now be stopped, pending our work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1607	What is the reason why a government doesn't have a plan and a system between departments to make sure that assessments of this type, which the government is now saying cheaply, aren't done before sale?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1612	But we do. The Security Act applies, the sector principle applies. This means that the sector responsible for, for example: the defence sector, is located in the Ministry of Defence. The civil sector is located in the Ministry of Justice. This case has many issues related to it. It's about trade policy, it's about defence policy both nationally and linked to our allies, it's about defence technology, access to sensitive information, and it's also about relationships with our trading partners. This means that the Ministry of Justice, as the coordinator of the Security Act, is now coordinating this work. It is done in the ministries, as it is done in all areas. But we have a system for this, and therefore the Ministry of Defence has explained that this company has not been subject to the Security Act. So that means there's no basis for that. It is not that foreign powers have had access to Norwegian technology. So they have not been subject to the Safety Act, but it can be used. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1619	Does the Council of State see that if one had made the assessments related to the safety law in this case, before the decision was taken, one could have come to the conclusion that it would not be in line with the safety law? For now, the Council of State kind of turns the matter a little bit on its head. I'm asking you, why haven't you made these assessments before the sale? It may seem that the government is not in control.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1627	I don't think I understand the question. It is the case that the defence has contracts with this company. Of course, assessments and assessments related to the Safety Act have been carried out. The assessment is that the contracts have been concluded in such a way that it is not necessary to subject the company to the safety law. This does not mean that the Security Act cannot be applied on the basis of a risk that we are now assessing, related to the defence sector, but also related to many other sectors — civil sector, knowledge, technology — and transparency. So there is an overall assessment that is made in connection with this sale. But the defense's responsibility is to assess a contract that is concluded there and there, and it has been assessed under the Security Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1633	Five years ago, we got an investigation from the DSB on the major deficiencies of the shelter system. After that, I have repeatedly asked all government councils, I think, what to do to correct these deficiencies, and whether the government will come up with measures to make the shelters more suitable for protecting the civilian population. In five years I have not really received any response at all, except that one will wait and assess, and now, after five years, there is a dramatic conclusion in the big news we are discussing today that the current regime of refuge according to the government is out of date. My question is, why haven't you just gone through what could be done to rust up the rooms? Why is the conclusion drawn so quickly? Why don't you look at how to use free-buying funds, which have been set aside for many years, which are unused, to renovate our shelters?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1640	This is not, in itself, a question of money use and lack of funds, if you think that the shelters we have today are suitable in view of possible situations today. Our assessment – and it is preliminary, because here a mission has been given to the DSB – is that the world has changed dramatically, and that what was safe places of residence 50 years ago is much less so today. I don't think the representative or I can explain the nearest shelter where we live. Maybe the representative can, at least I can't. They're also not of such a kind that they answer what we think is going to be the challenge. On the contrary, a safe place to stay can be at your home, it can be a sports hall, or it can be a special built, safe place to stay. We've now given DSB a job where we ask them to look at this. That's what they're working on, just to be able to answer what's going to be the safe places for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1649	Thanks for the answer. It's a question of different types of threats. It is clear that there are types of attacks, whether from terrorist organisations or from states that use terror to sabotage a state and cause panic in the civilian population, that can target our areas, and I hope we have a intelligence service that is able to capture the dangers and follow the threat picture. In specific situations, for which we have to be prepared when discussing the social security message, shelters that are well-equipped to protect those seeking shelter there may need to be protected from that type of attack. So here in the vicinity, we have, for example, The Storting T-Bahn station, which will accommodate a good many thousand people, and other T-Bahn stations in the Oslo centre, but they must be upgraded and prepared for it. Does the Government's response mean that she will now just wait, and not do anything to prepare these spaces to protect the population — pending these assessments continue? It has now been five years without any action, and I can see that it is still being pushed out indefinitely.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1660	It's not just been five years, I think it's been 20 and 25 years. In my time as mayor, under a red-green government, we tried to buy shelters from the state to offer it for leisure activities for young people. They have been in poor condition because they have not been used since the war. I fully agree with the representative: different threats and different situations will require different answers to what is a safe place of residence. That's why I mentioned several examples. Upgrading of shelters may be an option. Upgrading other special built spaces may be one. Our home could be a third. It's all about the situation, and that's why we've given a mission to the DSB, where they're going to give us an answer and a recommendation on what we should do with this. At least we agree that something should be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1667	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1672	Thank you for your cooperation, and also thank you to the spokesperson for a good deal. We in the Labour Party think, which I think many people are beginning to get along, that there is a need for a boost for the local preparedness: more exercises, more coordination, better collaboration, better skills and stronger funding. Throughout the ageing period, we have worked on this – in the Health Committee, in the Justice Committee, in the Municipal Committee, in the Transport Committee, etc. We are forced to see this in a context, and therefore it is very good that several committees took part in the debate today. Then we are happy that many proposals are getting plural today. The fact that the setting is as long as it is and that we get more corrections to the government, as Mr Henriksen calls it, I also think I say a part that unfortunately this message is disappointing. It contains too few concrete measures for the public we know are in social security and preparedness. It showed the hearing in the Justice Committee quite well, from a lot of actors. We are also critical of the fact that the immediate response is not a priority. The resources set aside for preparedness in the municipalities do not correspond well with the commitments placed on the municipalities. The municipal emergency response obligation received by municipalities after 2011, where one has a special responsibility for all kinds of crises within its borders, has not been followed up by funds. The fresh funds that have been available since 22 July 2011 mainly have our investments at departmental and directorate level, at national level. However, the situation is that many municipalities unfortunately break the minimum requirements of law and regulation for exercises, risks, vulnerability analyses and contingency plans. The DIY Commission said very clearly that it is the local police that make up the most important response resource. And even though we have just dealt with the police reports, we are forced to repeat this here, that the government's implementation of the so-called near-police reform does not seem to have strengthened local preparedness in any way. It is a failure to implement a reform that provided for – and which has been decided upon in the Stortinget up to several times – to strengthen local police. Yes, we even had a minister of social security and preparedness in this government, together with all the other Ministers of the Advance Party Justice, and I think that I met in Stortinget, when we challenged local preparedness work, that the Minister of Social Security and Preparedness could not answer that – the Minister of Justice had to answer that. I am pleased now that the Minister of Justice has to respond to the width of the emergency response. There are many suggestions, it's a long setting. The Labour Party today proposes, together with both the Centre Party and the SV, to strengthen municipal preparedness, among other things. by providing better coordination and more cross-municipal exercises with other relevant actors and by ensuring a holistic risk and vulnerability analysis. For some reason, we don't get a number of them – I think they're funny – nor a proposal we've made many times before, to set up regional training and preparedness centres. This is especially true when some of the things we also found in the settings show that there is not yet enough to work together. Then for several years we have been fighting for a special crash message for the fire and rescue unit. We just have to respect the fact that we can't. The fact that the fire and rescue department’s task portfolio has changed – it’s been over ten years since the previous big message – would be a good reason to get a message of your own. We know that the fire and rescue services are now, to a large extent, temporary police in much of the country. It's not that they come first to fire and rescue-related events; they come first to sharp events where the police should have been the first. So we have said, and so does my colleague, Martin Henriksen, that the sharp preparedness in Norway is better today than he was eight years ago, and it likes the Prime Minister and many others to quote us often. They only have to do that, if they could start by quoting us from the rest of what we said, because the local preparedness, the total preparedness, is not good enough. It is important to have an honest debate on social security and preparedness in Norway, and, just as my colleague Martin Henriksen says, we must also have the political capacity to recognise the risks that are still there. I take up proposal No. 30.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1702	The representative, Lene Vågslid, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1707	Extensive digitisation characterises societal development and is an important premise for the creation of value added, economic growth and social efficiencies. We share the concern that the digital space provides potential threat actors with the ability to commit data breaches, spy, conduct digital attacks and carry out impact campaigns. We are therefore pleased that the government will give priority to strengthening our digital security nationally and strengthening cooperation internationally. Digital security is becoming an increasingly important part of the State and Social Security field, and a large part of the threat activity against Norway is currently taking place in digital space. The Government’s National Digital Security Strategy provides the basis for making digital Norway safer. Digital security breaches can be prevented if both businesses and individuals contribute to prevention. All establishments are recommended to follow the National Safety Authority’s advice on password and the basic principles of NSM on ICT security. However, we note that despite considerable efforts on educational instruments with appropriate advice and guidance, there is still a lack of understanding and follow-up. The establishment of the NSM National Cybersecurity Centre has facilitated strong professional cooperation between more than 40 private and public enterprises. The national cybersecurity centre is our national response function for serious digital attacks and operates the national digital infrastructure alert system. The NCSC is a focal point for national and international cooperation in the detection, management, analysis and counselling of digital attacks. NC3 was established in 2019 as a department at Kripos and constitutes a spearhead in police prevention and investigation of crime in the digital space. In addition, NC3 is central to police national intelligence production linked to threats in the digital domain. With NCSC in NSM and NC3 in Kripos, the authorities have established two complementary national centres for digital security. Right supports the government’s proposal to establish the Digital Security Act implementing the EU NIS Directive and an assessment of how EU legal requirements can and should be incorporated into Norwegian law to ensure digital security of products and services connected to the Internet. Digital competence is a scarce resource nationally and internationally. The government takes this very seriously and indicates that it has been allocated about 800 million. through the National Digital Security Competence Strategy to strengthen digital security capability in line with societal needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1724	"At present it is the fact that the political heaven, world political, is sloppy to a degree that has not been the case for many years." That is what former Prime Minister Gunnar Knudsen said in February 1914. Just a few months later, the shots fell in Sarajevo, and World War I was a fact. The quotation shows how difficult, not to say impossible, it is to predict how the evolution of the world becomes at a given time. It's the backbone of today's debate, because today's point is to make sure that people in our whole country are safer, and that we can face it unforeseeable – that is, to be prepared and ready. In one area, it is quite obvious that the right-wing government has not thought that we should be prepared, because besides clean water, access to food is the most basic thing for us human beings, in order for us to be able to live. It's barely mentioned. We see this today, too. We should have the Minister of Health present, obviously, because this debate is so clear on important aspects of health protection, and we should have had the Minister of Agriculture and Food present in the Chamber. So the perspective of the right-hand government on common security is far too narrow. Fortunately, we have several opposition parties at Stortinget that work awake with our everyone's safety. That's why it's a pleasure to be able to join a campaign with an offensive joint project to create both jobs across the country and greater security for enough clean food. If we are to have enough food, we must also have enough workers, because just as health professionals must be present in our hospitals and the defense must have enough soldiers, food production must also have workers who can trade plants and animals. It shows the corona is a major deficiency in today’s food production system in Norway. When it's said that food production might stop because we don't have enough hands and enough people, then it's a big cross of thought that the right-wing government is talking about food security so easily, and so is the right-wing parties in these comments. That's why we have to provide proper economics in the industry, we have to have education for the youth that makes it interesting to go in and get work in the green sector, and of course we have to have neat pay and work conditions, as workers who do the very important work on behalf of all of us deserve. What makes Norway particularly vulnerable to just the lack of food is particularly two aspects of how our country is geographical and our location. First of all, we have very little food soil, and only a very small part of the food soil we have is suitable for producing grain. In addition, Norway is vulnerable because we can be cut off at sea. That's exactly what happened during World War I, with which I opened the post. Norway was a neutral country, but despite the fact that we were not at war, security was challenged for the benefit of a large number of people in this country, and it was a source of famine. One of the most famous pictures from World War I has been taken at the end of Karl Johan's gate in the park at the Castle, where you can see that a guy starts plowing the field with a horse to set potatoes. It reminds us how important it is to use the resources we have when there is a crisis, but also that, as I said, we have people who can do the job. Therefore, the red-green side will provide an overall better common assurance of people in this country. And if we're going to be safe, it doesn't just keep having balls, we also have to have food.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1739	I share the view of our committee leader, who is calling for an honest preparedness debate. She's quite right about that, because this is such an important matter that we shouldn't let political games go into it. Then I'd like to answer a little bit to the previous speaker, who talked about that we're not self-sufficient in food. We are if we relate to meat, fish, eggs, milk and other dairy products, coarse vegetables, etc. What is challenging is that we do not have our own sugar production in Norway. Nor do we have rice, tropical fruit, nuts and enough food. It's about the way you're raining, the calories. We rely on some imports of some goods that are completely unnecessary for the Norwegian diet. Fish we have enough of, and we'll be very happy for that. I would also like to point out that if we are to be honest first, it is wrong to present it as a sort of corrected by the government that, with the help of the Progress Party today, a majority is formed for a number of proposals. It's not, maybe with a little exception on the health side. In terms of preparedness work in general, it's not an expression of a correctness, it's an expression that we want to go on. We're not done. We're not done building the police, we're not done strengthening the PST, we're not done strengthening digital security. That is why we have a lot of suggestions. We need a faster deployment of broadband, a faster deployment of mobile coverage, and we need not least – we also have proposals today – to ensure robustness in the Norwegian core network, perhaps to have an alternative network. In reality today, if you have a grave accident where you cut the net in the right place in the country, this country is divided into two. It is a reality. We don't have enough readiness to deliver the Internet to the whole country. So I want to take up what maybe in many ways is my heartchild, and that's the Civil Defense. I believe, and the Progress Party has been concerned that we should continue to build the Civil Defense. We have had an impact in the budget for 2021, and also in the RNB for 2020, in order to strengthen civil protection. But we can't stop there. We have to increase the number of people on duty. The Progress Party has a concrete proposal to increase from initially up to 2023 from 8 000 to 10 000 people on duty. We need a personnel and resource reinforcement of the Civil Defense. Not least, we must ensure regional autonomy for civil defence. We can't be in the situation that we have a very pyramid-based organization. Parts of the civil defence must be able to operate independently of each other, and then we are totally dependent on building civil defence at regional level. There are also experiences of crisis and war – half of the country is occupied, while war continues in other parts of the country. It is then necessary to be able to protect the civilian population, which is the most important task of civil defence, but they are also an invaluable resource in peacetime. It may not be the civil defense that gets the biggest newscasts, which are most visible on television and in other contexts, but they support the emergency situation in very many contexts and are an invaluable resource when accidents and crises are out. You can just ask the police. They benefit from the Civil Defense. The importance of civil protection cannot be underestimated. Then we also have to make them visible. The Progress Party has a concrete proposal. This is done by a separate chapter of the Civil Protection budget. We have to make them visible. We politicians have to see them, and they don't just have to be number two when we've done all the other things that get attention, which are about fire, police and all those things. Civil defence is an extremely important resource, not only in war, but also in peacetime. Then I have a desire to stress that there is actually an agreement that may not be as clear, and it's about maybe the Central Party when they talk about the Police Directorate. We had a joint proposal in the police report on the closure of the Police Directorate. I think that's absolutely right. Now it's time to shut down the Police Directorate. With regard to the priority of the police now, there is also no disagreement between the Progress Party, the Center Party and part of the other opposition parties that now it is the police that are close to people who must be given priority. Now it is the local police that must be given priority. We need more patrols out there, and we need to continue building the Norwegian police force, in the best interests of preparedness and security for countries and people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1757	In several debates in the last six months, including today, we have heard representatives from the Right, and to the extent that from the Progress Party too, everything from the Gjørv Commission has been followed up. It is of concern if there is an opinion within the government, because challenges have to be recognised in order to be able to solve them, whether in terms of vulnerability, electrical safety, food security, digital security or the nature of knowledge, culture and management. If you read the evaluation of the attack on the Al-Noor mosque in Bærum in August 2019, it revealed many of the same weaknesses that were revealed after 22 July 2011. In many ways it's an echo of what the Yard Commission pointed out. There was a warning about the terrorist. When the police were notified, they did not first understand the warning because of the language, but they did not find the way. The alarm did not go to the police even when they were told that a white man shot in a mosque with a camera on his helmet. It was later explained that the police had little experience and did not know what to do. We now know that although the authorities and the PST feared an increased risk of terrorist attacks against Norwegian Muslims at this time, the mosques in Norway or Muslim communities were not notified of an increased risk or advice on safety. Thanks to the heroism of two grandfathers, we avoided a mass slaughter of Muslims. We need to be sure that these errors are corrected or taken seriously up to top management. Today, the majority of the population asks the government to evaluate an update of the law regarding PST’s responsibility for public threat communication. It's necessary. The section on culture and management was also mentioned in the treatment we had from the police reports. There is a need to strengthen that sharp preparedness here too, but when we have this debate today on the preparedness message, I would like to stress that this is not just about the sharp preparedness. We need to strengthen society's resilience to extremism and polarisation, which in turn can provide the basis for social unrest and, in the ultimate consequence, violent attacks and acts of terrorism. That resilience does not depend only on the sharp preparedness. We must recognise the potential consequences of dangerous hatred and prevent people in our society from being radicalised and becoming a threat to others. This broad task of preparedness cannot be underestimated. Of course, we need better knowledge of immigration and integration into the population, both on opportunities and on challenges, but it is a political responsibility, as the Labour Party sees it, to avoid stigmatisation of ethnic groups, conspiracy theories and attacks on the free press and to ensure that this does not get ground, and to avoid that organisations promoting this receive state support. We also believe that combating exclusion, loneliness and lack of belonging is important because this often characterises those who practice this kind of terror. The danger of extremism and terrorism must therefore be combated both in the acute preparedness and in the broad preparedness. Finally, I would like to say that I think it is a bit striking that neither the government parties nor the Progress Party talk more about local preparedness. We are committed to building a strong preparedness for crises, natural disasters, accidents, pandemics and terrorism throughout the country. In recent years, we have seen that the requirements for municipalities have been strengthened, and municipalities are making enormous efforts, but the responsibilities of municipalities have not been followed up with funds or attention. The fresh resources that have been available since 2011 have largely come at national level, at ministerial and directorate level. There have been needed improvements, but it ignores the important lesson of local crises. Willingness must be local by its very nature. That is why we can, for example: show that it is positive that several municipalities now have emergency plans, but 45 pst. of the municipalities that had contingency plans in 2019, breached one or more minimum requirements for these contingency plans. One of the reasons is the lack of resources, the lack of follow-up and the lack of coordination from the national level. That's why we in the Workers' Party in several articles now say that there is a need for a change of pace in the bet on the immediate preparedness that is closest to the people, along with the volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1778	Then there will be a pause in the debate on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1790	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. The decision will first vote on the matter No. 1-10 on yesterday's map and then on case No. 1 to 6 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1804	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 3 and 4, by Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Center Party proposed no. 6 and 7, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Proposal No. 6 and 7 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set up a public body to identify the differences in the provision of rehabilitation services in municipalities and specialist health services and make concrete proposals on how to deliver good rehabilitation services based on: the involvement of users and relatives; reduced differences in supply use of well-being technologies; cooperation between primary health services, specialist health services and other welfare actors; equivalent services throughout the country.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a National Development Centre for Rehabilitation, from a user perspective and with innovative services, which facilitates good cooperation between service levels.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1859	Proposal No. 5 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the rehabilitation and rehabilitation offer is stepped up, based on the Health Directorate’s evaluation of the Stabilisation and Rehabilitation Plan 2017–2019, and to provide it to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ The Labour Party and the Red Party have already given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left and the Greens have already supported the proposal subsidized by the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1878	Proposal No. 3 and 4 from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that employees of rehabilitation institutions in need of rehabilitation are able to carry out such rehabilitation at an institution other than their own.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a long-term grant scheme for municipalities that, through innovative development work, facilitate rehabilitation services where the patient’s needs are at the centre and where the patient is given a race adapted and organised.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1902	Proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for action to be taken to reduce the geographical differences in rehabilitation and rehabilitation.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to launch tests on the ambulance team in the specialist health service, which can contribute to the proper follow-up and competence of a decentralised treatment provision for those in need of specialised rehabilitation.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1934	Right, Left and Christian People's Party have warned that they want to speak against.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e1953	A total of ten proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-3, by Hege Haukeland Liadal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 5 and 6, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Party of Centres and the Left Socialist Party proposal No 4, from Morten Stordalen on behalf of the Progress Party proposed no. 7-9, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 10, from Hege Haukeland Liadal on behalf of the Labour Party Proposal No. 7-9 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks to amend § 5(a) of the regulation on the right to health and care services for people without permanent residence in the country, so that those who are already in the country receive primary health services in line with other citizens.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that persons without permanent residence in the State are given access to the fixed medical system.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking that health businesses comply with the law in dealing with undocumented pregnant women and ensure that they receive the necessary health care without being demanded or asked for payment before treatment, and that clear guidelines are established for the treatment and follow-up of undocumented pregnant women.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2000	Proposal No. 5 and 6 from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to establish a funding mechanism for treatment staff so that they can be reimbursed for expenses and medicines given to patients outside the public sector, and to return to the Storting with the necessary proposals to ensure this.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government requests that persons without permanent residence in the State be given the right to preventive and curative health services in the local health service, including general medical services, and that children be given the right to be on the list of permanent staff.’;» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2024	Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that organisations are obliged by the same law as government agencies, thereby ensuring that non-governmental organisations are obliged to report when they come into contact with illegal immigrants. This must be a prerequisite for receiving financial support from the public.»;
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2039	Proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to provide a national reimbursement scheme for the Health Centre for Paperless in Bergen and Oslo for medical and pharmaceutical expenses.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left, the Green and Red Environmental Party have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2064	Alternatively, between the recommendation and the proposal No. 1-3, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the health centres for paperless migrants in Bergen and Oslo have access to covid-19 vaccines, so that they have the opportunity to vaccinate their patients in line with recommendations and priorities of groups.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to evaluate regulations on the right to health and care services for people without permanent residence in the kingdom and to make necessary changes so that the provision of health services to vulnerable groups, such as children, persons with disabilities, pregnant women and the elderly, is in line with the offer made to the population elsewhere.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking that all the undocumented persons in Norway actually receive the necessary health care that cannot be expected, as well as review the practice of the right to necessary health care, including the funding mechanisms, and assess improvements to ensure that these rights are fulfilled.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2100	A total of 18 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-5, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 6 and 7, by Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party proposal No 9, from Mari Holm Lønneth on behalf of Right, Left and Christian People's Party proposal No 8, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 10, from Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Labour Party proposed no. 11 and 12, by Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 13, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Center Party proposed no. 14-18, by Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 14-18, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the treatment offer by children’s and young people’s bedside beds in order to ensure that it is offered as useful to children and young people.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a plan to ensure the necessary training and recruitment of medical specialists and other specialists in the field of childhood and youth psychiatry. [[BUP]] Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to be taken by the government to implement cooperation models to enhance interaction between the school services and the children’s and young people’s psychiatry. [[BUP]] Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to assess which mental health protection schemes have been subject to heavy burdens as a result of covid-19 and to return to the Stortinget with proposals to strengthen these offers.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that regional health businesses temporarily extend the use of contract specialists in the field of mental health protection and to give priority to building up the public offer with more permanent and health jobs in the sector.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2167	Proposal No. 13 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the implementation of an obligation on child and youth psychiatry to provide an assessment of all referrals and necessary further action.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2182	Proposal No. 11 and 12, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure equal and defensive treatment practices in children’s and youth psychiatry and that all referrals are assessed by BUP leaders with specialist competence. [[BUP]] The government further requests that children and young people be better informed about their rights.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that a national overview of refusals of referrals, complaints of refusal and conversion rates in paediatric and juvenile psychiatry is drawn up.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2206	Proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that health care providers be granted the right of referral to the BUP.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2224	Proposal No. 9, from Right, Left and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to await major conversions and closures of daily mental health places until the pandemic situation is clarified.’ Red has already received subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2241	Proposal No. 8, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to eliminate the abstinence of patients up to and including 25 years for treatment in public mental health protection.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2258	Proposal No. 6 and 7 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan to ensure the necessary training and recruitment of medical specialists, psychologists and specialist nurses in the field of childhood and youth psychiatry. [[BUP]] Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to be taken by the government to implement cooperation models to increase interaction between the municipal health services, the school health services and the children’s and young people’s psychiatry.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals. The Socialist Left and the Greens have already supported the proposals subsidized by the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2284	Proposal No. 1–5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for access to rapid mental health care and low-threshold services without reference in all municipalities.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a public selection to review mental health services for children and young people, among other things in the light of findings in Ukom’s and Barneombode’s reports. The selection shall also consider the link between the assistance provided in the local health service and in the specialist services.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to increase the treatment capacity of child and youth psychiatry and to stop the reduction of bed capacity in order to ensure short waiting times and provide children and young people with assistance close to their cages and access to the necessary daily treatment.’ [[BUP]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that children and young people under the age of 18 who become acutely mentally ill receive entry into the Paediatric Psychiatric Department, even at weekends and evenings, so that they do not have to enter the Emergency Psychiatric Department for Adults.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to phase out input-driven funding for child and youth psychiatry in order to secure children and young flexible services.’ [[BUP]] The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2334	The Socialist Left and Red have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2353	Right, Left and Christian People's Party have warned that they want to speak against.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2372	A total of two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a review of forced use of mental health protection and, in particular, for manning. There must be proper and prudent use of coercion, which must only be used when strictly necessary.» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2398	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to evaluate the change in the Mental Health Act to introduce requirements for consent when entering into forced mental health protection and to promote the issue of necessary legislative changes in this area in order to ensure the lives and health of seriously mentally ill patients.’ Red has already received subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2422	The Labour Party, the Center Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2441	A total of 22 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-14, from Himanshu Gulati on behalf of the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 15–17, from Himanshu Gulati on behalf of the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 18-22, from Himanshu Gulati on behalf of the Advance Party Proposal No. 19-22, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked to propose amendments to the laws ensuring minimum criminal liability for individuals or organisations contributing to the sending of children abroad and leaving them against their will in situations where they may be subjected to violence and torture, negative social control or radicalisation.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose what benefits should be lost when parents are responsible for sending or leaving children abroad on their own initiative through their own actions or arrangements under conditions that can contribute to child and youth being subjected to violence and torture, negative social control or radicalisation.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that parental responsibility is affected when parents are responsible for sending children to or leaving them abroad on their own initiative in situations that may contribute to child and youth being subjected to violence and torture, negative social control or radicalisation.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make the necessary proposals and to implement amendments to ensure that the residence permit is affected by temporary residence when, through their own actions or arrangements, they are responsible for sending children to or leaving them abroad on their own initiative under conditions that may contribute to the victims of violence and torture, negative social control or radicalisation.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2485	Proposal No. 18, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to propose amendments to the law providing for the introduction of minimum penalties against parents and caregivers responsible for sending children to or leaving them abroad on their own initiative, through their own actions or arrangements, in situations that may contribute to the victims of violence and torture, negative social control or radicalisation.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2502	Proposal No. 15–17, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to identify cases where child protection has contributed when parents have wanted to send children out of the country. The government is also asking the government to put an immediate stop to the practice that child protection can help to send children abroad against their will.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to draw up information and guidance on how children and young people who are abroad against their will are to be followed up and given assistance if they come into contact with embassies, child protection or other public bodies, in order to avoid the children concerned from being seriously taken.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to follow up the proposals of the government-appointed expert group report ‘It was not just a holiday’ that the foreign stations and the foreign authorities should have the same obligation to notify the child protection service as the passport authorities do’. The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2531	Proposal No. 14, from the Progress Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose what benefits can and should be lost when children are sent abroad and kept there against their will.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2549	Proposal No. 1-13, from the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The Government is asked to state the status of the decisions taken in the context of the examination of Document 8:118 S by the Grand Duchy [[2017-2018]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to follow up the proposal in the government-appointed expert group’s report ‘It was not just a holiday’ that young people under the age of 18 should be appointed a squatter/talker if they reside abroad against their will and the parents do not want to help them back.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to focus on and ensure that employees in schools, the Child Welfare Service and the police are provided with knowledge and competence to detect and follow up early on where children are sent abroad against their will.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to follow up the proposal in the government-appointed expert group’s report ‘It was not just holiday’ that the theme of involuntary stays abroad should be included in information, guidance and chat services for young people, including young people.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to follow up the proposal in the government-appointed expert group’s report ‘It was not just holiday’ that young people should be offered an offer to monitor their physical and mental health by returning from involuntary stays abroad’. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for follow-up to the proposal in the government-appointed expert group’s report ‘It was not just a holiday’ that assistance measures and methods of child protection should be developed to prevent involuntary residence abroad.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to follow up the proposal in the government-appointed expert group’s report ‘It was not just a holiday’ that young people should be offered a flexible education system and Norwegian training that could improve their schooling and lost language skills after returning to Norway after involuntary stays abroad.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to follow up the proposal in the government-appointed expert group’s report ‘It was not just holiday’ that it should be ensured that children and young adults do not lose their permanent residence permit if they are kept abroad against their will.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to follow up the proposal in the government-appointed expert group’s report ‘It was not just holiday’ that young people over 18 years of age should be guaranteed a housing and support offer where there is no requirement to be under threat of assistance.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to use its dialogue with countries where schools of the Koran are common, to make expectations and demands that authorities intervene to prevent young people from being held against their will in institutions and ‘rehabilitation centres’ where violence and torture can occur or are at risk of negative social control and radicalisation.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to follow up the proposals for measures in the Government-appointed Expert Group’s report ‘It was not just holiday’ on information and guidance for young people, parents and auxiliary workers.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to follow up the proposal in the report of the government-appointed expert group ‘It was not just holiday’ that the theme of involuntary stay abroad should be included as part of the training on violence and abuse in all relevant professional training’. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for follow-up to the proposal in the report of the government-appointed expert group ‘It was not just holiday’ that the responsibilities, mandates and cooperation procedures of the competence team, integration advisers and the U.D. should be reviewed and whether there is a need for a more operational coordination function in complex foreign affairs.’; The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2649	During the debate, Mr Gulati presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘ Adoption of the Act amending the Law on Holidays and Holiday Peace I [[transfer of the right to grant a derogation from the central government to the local government]] In Law No. 24 February 1995 No. Section 5 on Holidays and Holiday Peace is replaced by the following: § 5 Sales from permanent outlets On holidays fixed outlets selling goods to consumers shall remain closed. On Christmas, Easter and Pentecost, they have to close at 4 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox This does not apply to: 1. points of sale which essentially sell kiosk or groceries and which have a total sales surface not exceeding 100 sqm 2. refuelling stations with a total sales surface not exceeding 150 sqm; 3rd sales spots on campsites during the camping season 4. points of sale in areas which, following a decision by the local government, are considered typical tourist sites, see sixth paragraph 5. sales from the serving site 6th auction sale 7. sale of exhibited items from art galleries and the like 8. sales from temporary exhibitions and trade fairs that take place in premises that are not normally used for sales activities 9) points of sale selling flowers, plants and other gardening goods 10th point of sale that essentially sells local household goods 11. points of sale in passenger check-in and check-out buildings at airports permitted for free sale 12. sales of goods in relation to production sites etc. organised for tourism. Fixed outlets can stay open on the last three Sundays before Christmas Eve between noon. 14 a.m. and 4 p.m. 20. With sales surface, see second paragraph, No. 1 and 2 means the floor area of that part of the premises of a point of sale where goods intended for sale to the public are visibly displayed. Storage rooms and living rooms for staff are not included. points of sale referred to in point 2 of the second subparagraph; 1 and 2 and which do not clearly satisfy the sales surface requirement shall be able to demonstrate, by tariff or other satisfactory means, the size of the sales surface. The documentation shall be available at the point of sale. Lack of evidence means that a point of sale is not considered to be exempted from the provision of the first sentence of the first subparagraph. The local authority may decide that an area should be regarded as a typical tourist destination, see second paragraph, no. 4, for the whole year or parts of the year. As a typical tourist destination, only the area where sales take place mainly to tourists during the relevant periods can be considered. Upon application, the local authority may grant a derogation from the paragraph here when there are particular reasons. The decision may be appealed to the Ministry. The Ministry may provide detailed instructions for completing the paragraph here. II The law shall enter into force immediately’. Alternatively, the proposal and the recommendation of the Committee shall be rejected. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2745	In the course of the debate, there is a total of seven proposals. It's proposed no. 1–5 and 7, from Silje Hemdal on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 6, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Center Party Proposal No. 6 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for new and more stringent responses when resident parents prevent association and for determining the penalties that should apply when consensual parents do not meet up to the prescribed consensuality.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2769	Proposal No. 2–5, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that association which has not been implemented as a result of cohabitation be implemented at a later stage, so-called "remuneration".’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose that long-term or repeated cohabitation should be justified in transferring the residence authority to the parent who will ensure maximum overall contact with the parent.’; Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a legislative amendment to be proposed to ensure that no one comes out economically more favourable in terms of child contributions because of co-morbidity and that any collection/payment of contributions is stopped in the event of sabotage by the recipient.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The Government is asked to make proposals to increase the powers of the family protection offices with regard to the establishment of a consensual plan, which also grants the right to fine for the termination of the plan. This is to relieve the courts and resolve matters more quickly.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2801	Proposal No. 7, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to conduct an independent legal assessment of Nav’s practice of co-contribution law.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2818	Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose new and more stringent responses to co-operation bottling.’ The centre party has already received subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2863	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 2 and 3, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to draw up information material on the rights of children in child protection and to ensure that this information material is distributed to all municipalities in Norway, and to inform the Storting appropriately when this is done, by the end of 2021.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to legalise participation at service level, for example through municipal user councils where children are included, and through the sampling method, where children’s experience and knowledge are collected.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2894	President, I'm making a mistake.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2899	I'll fix that. The result is that 80 representatives have voted against the proposals and 7 for. This suggests that the proposal has not been accepted. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2911	Alternatively, between the recommendation and proposal No. 1, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose, in the context of the work of the new Children’s Protection Act, that participation be mentioned in all relevant chapters of the new law.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2927	The voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2932	Then we resume voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2952	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-3, by Arild Grande on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 4-6, by Eirik Faret Sakariassen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The proposals from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party will be voted on 1-3. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that those working in welfare services sectors financed by the government have pay and working conditions, including occupational pension schemes, which are in line with public policy, and to ensure more transparency and control of enterprises financed by public funds.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to review the effects of the right of reservation in the second paragraph of Section 16-2 of the Working Environment Act, including the impact on pay and working conditions, and to promote legislative proposals to strengthen the conditions of employees in the event of transfer of business.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that publicly funded welfare services are mainly provided by employees, not by self-employed persons.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e2990	Proposal No. 4-6, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking whether the working conditions of commercial welfare actors, including crewing, are in line with legal and contractual relations. Furthermore, the Government asks the Government to terminate tendering contracts and other types of contracts in which employment is not in conformity with the contractual provisions and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that public sector actors have a collective agreement.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that all companies which have their main revenue from the government are subject to external audit and have extended note-taking requirements in their annual accounts.» Red has already given its support to the proposals. The working party has already received subsidized support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3028	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3047	During the debate, Arild Grande has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to reconsider the basis for forced pay in the light of the claims made by the Trade Union and whether intervention in the strike was in accordance with the statutory strike rights and international obligations’. The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3095	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3107	It's going to be above the title of the law and the law at all. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3139	A total of two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jan Bøhler on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Grand Duchy with an assessment of developments related to police working conditions in relation to the juvenile environment and recriminals. The government is asked to consider possible criminal atrocities and other measures to stop the increase of harassment, obstruction, threats and violence against policemen’. The Labour Party has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3172	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the law amending the Criminal Code I [[more severe penalties for attacks and damage to the police]] In Law 20 May 2005 No 28 on punishment shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 155, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: Those who, in the event of violence, threats, injury or other unlawful conduct, influence a public service person to perform or refrain from performing a service act or prevent such action, or seek to achieve it, shall be penalised by fine or imprisonment up to 6 years. Paragraph 155a, first paragraph, first sentence, is replaced by the following: Gross violence, serious threats or gross damage to public service personnel is punishable by imprisonment up to 9 years. Paragraph 156, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: The person who prevents a public official from performing a service, for example by refusing access to places where he has legitimate access, is penalised by fine or imprisonment for up to 3 years. II The law shall enter into force immediately’.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3225	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 2 and 3, from Jan Bøhler on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 4, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 6, by Ingunn Foss on behalf of Right, Left and Christian People's Party proposal No 7, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 4 and 7 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose that Norway sign the additional protocol to the CRPD, so that Norwegian citizens are not excluded from appeal against possible violations of rights on the basis of impaired functioning of the CRPD Committee.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make proposals to incorporate the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities into the Equality and Discrimination Act.’ [[CRPD]] The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3270	Proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to incorporate the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities into the Human Rights Act and to carry out a systematic review of Norwegian legislation in order to identify where possible the need to make changes.’; [[CRPD]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an assessment of the impact of Norway’s ratification of the additional protocol to the CRPD.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals. The Socialist Left and the Greens have already supported the proposals subsidized by the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3296	Proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to promote a case with the necessary legislative changes that would bring Norwegian legislation into line with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities [[CRPD]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3311	Proposal No. 6, from Right, Left and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the consequences of incorporating the CRPD into Norwegian legislation, including the consequences it will have for future legislative developments, and to ask the Government to return appropriately to the Stortinget on a case’.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3327	Proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals to incorporate the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities into the Human Rights Act.’ [[CRPD]] The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal. The centre party has already received subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3353	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3449	The size then goes back to the treatment of today's map. The next speaker is Mr Elvenes, and the speakers who are given the floor hereafter have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3456	The government has chosen to promote the social security message at the same time as the long-term defence plan, and that is a good reason. The distinction between war and peace has become more unclear, and we see that in the grey zone between war and peace, there are instruments that can affect across sectors. The 1946 Defence Commission decided that the defence of Norway should be based on both military defence and broad civil protection. The total resources of society were to be mobilised for the defence of the country. But it is also about the defence support for civil society in crisis. The total defense was developed after World War II, but was after the fall of the wall far on the road considered unnecessary. In 2016, the government launched a programme to further develop the overall defence. The programme aims to increase resilience to threats and attacks aimed at societally critical functions and further develop civil authorities’ support for defence. Since 22 July 2011, a number of measures have been put in place to improve the capacity to support civil crisis management. The Special Defence Command and the Marine Hunter Command are in continuous counter-terror alert, permanent helicopter standby is in place to support the police and cooperation between the PST and the Intelligence Service is strengthened. The new 2017 aid guide makes it easier to request support from the Defence Agency and the decisions on assistance from the Defence Agency can be taken more quickly. Until recently, only the defense's support for the police was permitted by law. Following the decision of the Stortinget on 16 February, the defence assistance to the other civil authorities is now also provided for in the Defence Act. Civil support for military forces is essential to our defence capabilities. In recent years, the government has updated the plans for the total defence of Norway. The government prioritises measures to ensure access to food, fuel, transport, health preparedness and power supply in crisis and war. For example, the defence through strategic partners has more than doubled the number of logistic bases in Norway. The defence has e.g. access to Bring's vehicle fleet throughout the country and their cooperation with Norway's largest food wholesalers ensures access to supplies in crisis and war. Practice Trident Juncture was in many ways a test of the ability of civil society to interact with the Defense and on the ability of allied reception. Experience was well under way, but an experience from that exercise is that a new host country support battalion is now being created in the new long-term defence plan. The tragic racial accident in Gjerdrum once again showed the importance of the matching of resources. In crisis and war, it is essential to be able to interact across sectors. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3471	That's enough time out.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3476	Cybersecurity and cyber capacity need to be given increased attention. Our minimum defense is too small to allow the defence over time to enable us to meet our national and international obligations. The Social Security Communication states that there is an increased risk of espionage, digital screening and sabotage, and the dissemination of disinformation and false news. The increased digitisation of society gives state and non-state actors new tools and arenas to pursue their strategic interests. You and I as citizens become more and more dependent on technology and electronic communications both privately and at work. We are more and more exposed to digital attacks. The Central Party requires increased deployment of the Intelligence Service and the Cyber Defense Service, including: by increasing the appropriation of the Defence to 2 pst. of gross domestic product. In addition, in the alternative state budget, we have proposed several ICT study sites. The Communication lacks concrete measures to prevent and prevent the serious consequences of health preparedness, food security, digital vulnerability and communication incidents – in order to strengthen total defence. It is good to put in place a law on digital security, develop competences on digital security and implement national exercises on digital security. The local authorities must also take part in the prevention work, and it will probably support the Central Party rapporteur, Mr Helgestad, in the East of Toten and the professionals at the Commune-CSIRT. But there is more to it: the Central Party wants to look at the establishment of a common, national cloud service. Germany, the Netherlands and France have done everything they can. Furthermore, there is a need to increase the level of competence, both in the private and public sectors. The Cyber Security Center, the Cyber Defense, the Cyber Engineering School and soldiers in the security and security service are located on Jørstadmoen in Oppland. In this context, the capacity of vulnerable crews, apprentices, military and civil cyber engineers and liaison personnel as well as operational military personnel should be increased. The cooperation with NTNU Gjøvik and the test centre Norwegian Cyber Range is also important. The Cybertrussel is an area of NATO that is occupied by, and we can expect greater demands on the nations and their cyber capabilities in the future. The centre party is promoting several good proposals today to address the threat in the digital space. It's the government's ambitions for prevention don't follow the Central Party's ambitions for cybersecurity and cyber capacity. It's about the everyday life of you and me.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3489	It is clear that the minority in the Judicial Committee, consisting of the Right and the Advance Party, disregards the essential points raised during the consultation on social security in an uncertain world. The notification lacks guidance to establish national legislation to ensure civil construction and construction — and human life and health. The key in the message is the Security Act. It requires that all establishments with exposed objects and infrastructure must themselves assess the risks and ensure adequate safety. According to the hearings, Norway has no full education in this field today. Very few candidates with complete engineering competence are trained in physical security. One possible consequence of this is that design is often outsourced to a professional environment lacking this competence. The result can quickly be insufficient securing and expensive solutions. The Right Party and the Advance Party have not realised that a national centre of NTNU will have a completely necessary and complementary role in relation to the National Centre of Competence for the Protection of Construction and Other Norwegian Industry. Defence construction and the national safety authority are the main advisers in Norway for physical security and protection. But some people have to train the consultants who work there, and the fact is that so far a significant proportion of them have come from this professional environment at NTNU. If the environment continues its activity as a national centre, they will be able to further develop the subject area and train candidates who have both been trained to use them and to think completely about safety. Continuing training will also exacerbate today's sorely needed skills in this area. It is pointed out that today, SIMLab has a position in social security funded by the Ministry of Justice — yes, but it only finances wages and salaries for this position. All means of operation are covered by the SFI CASA, thereby providing financial space for activities and infrastructure. This is essential to the achievement of the objectives defined for the professorship. The Ministry’s aid will be terminated as early as next year and the operating funds will end in 2023 when CASA is closed. Although NTNU assumes salary obligations after 2022, there will be no means in addition to wages to conduct research-based education in the physical security of NTNU. For 30 years, SIMLab has built stones on stones and developed international leadership competence in the construction of materials and structures subject to extreme stresses. One of their new projects is in cooperation with Statsbyggen, where they assist in the development of a new type of vehicle barrier for Nordic conditions. This is done in connection with the construction of the new government quarter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3502	Good over 500 million. kr is invested in SIMLab, and 200 million. kr is from the public sector. It is very important that the unique environment, competence and infrastructure built up be safeguarded and used after 2023. Building an internationally leading trade union environment takes time. The success of SIMLab can be documented. Four international evaluations over the last ten years have concluded that this environment is among the world's leaders in its field. They are now hosting their new SFI.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3507	This social security message is a very good report that addresses the whole of the preparedness challenges in our country. It points to challenges with long supply lines and that it is a source of vulnerability. It also points out that this is visible during the pandemic, for example. in case of lack of test equipment and infective equipment. What we were also tested during the coronary apathy was food safety. It turned out to be robust. So the global pandemic has shown that we may never have been better equipped for such a crisis. We remember from last year that the store shelves were emptied, and we experienced hamstering, but the whole agriculture and food industry stood ready and supplied food to the people, even when demand increased as a result of borders being closed again. We have an agriculture and a food industry that is able to turn quickly when we need it. In addition, food supply and food supply lines into the country have been virtually normal. Most countries have much left to trade with other countries, including in crises. I am recording that the Workers' Party in its comments today has called for decentralised food storage. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party has moderated its statements on this matter. In the past, they have supported the Centre Party in investing in central food grain stocks. Very familiar is the Centre Party still has that opinion. It's vulnerable, it's expensive, and it's a bad suggestion, which several investigations have been very clear that is not recommending. There are many other ways we can strengthen preparedness. The most important thing is that we facilitate the production of more Norwegian food, more Norwegian cereals. In all our agricultural operations, we have strengthened the grain economy, so that we have gained more domestic production now than before, and that has strengthened preparedness. In addition, we are in a unique situation in Norway that we have the fish, which means that if the supply lines were to be cut off, we would be 100 pst. Self-sufficient food for our people. For a whole year now, we have experienced that the Workers' Party and the Centre have tried to create a crisis understanding in the people that food security is not good under this government. There's no basis for that. This is a vulnerable field in crises and wars, but we have a lot of attention to food security, and people can feel confident that we are working hard on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3520	The communication focuses on interoperability at national level, and once again the government forgets that those in the middle of it are often the municipalities. Local cooperation between emergency situations is often crucial for good local preparedness. The Norwegian preparedness is broken up, and each actor is responsible for his part of the big picture. What is written about the police in the communication is directly contradictory to what has been done in the police reform. Over 7.5 years, the government has consistently broken down municipal preparedness around the districts. Once the government has removed more than 120 relief offices from the map, this is a failure of local preparedness. Men with high integrity were often the faces of the state in the local emergency services. They were represented in both police and emergency services. Now they have been replaced by a police contact, which is often responsible for several municipalities, and which work largely in managing meetings and providing information. It shouldn't be like that. The government is good at imposing and setting demands without following up with resources. The local fire service, often the only tangible resource, is the one that can operate, and the municipalities are left with the bill. The government is introducing more and more reforms as cutters in the offers close to people. The police, the ambulance, the Civil Defense and the Home Guard are all going through the government's cut. It is the municipalities that are closest to people in crisis. It is the municipalities that are required to have emergency procedures. It is the municipalities that put together crisis teams that ensure that citizens are safe before, during and after a crisis. The state is leaving the districts. Unlike the government, we believe in the Centerpartiet that the small municipalities are also viable municipalities. Municipalities lack the resources to follow up the key role that governments impose on them. Reforms and structural changes in health and police are increasingly leading to fire and rescue being the first emergency at the site of injury. Health missions are the fourth largest fire service entry in their calls. We want to strengthen the municipalities. We've strengthened them by three billion. kr in our budget. We want information flows between state and municipality to improve. We have to back up on the civil defence, and we've also granted over 30 million. In addition to the government's budget. We need more Homeland soldiers who can help in a crisis. Under this government, there's been a loss of 5,000. We need soldiers who are modern, with good equipment, but who are also a tangible resource in the municipalities. We want to ensure safety throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3535	Initially, I have to clarify what is involved in proposals that the Right Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party go into, so that I do not lose it in this post as well. We're going to support Romantic Decisions XXII, XXX, XVII and XLIV. That's what they say. So I want to say a little bit about what's called here. There is, of course, a lot of content in the debate, but I would like to say a little about the local preparedness, which the opposition believes has not been given enough space in the message. He's got a whole chapter. It's also the case that we have a principle that underlies. We have municipalities, we have regions, we have a state, and we have preparedness actors at all the levels that will be put on standby when the need is there, and we have a great synergy between these three levels. I fully agree that voluntary resources are the mainstay of Norwegian preparedness. It is a fantastic effort made by the voluntary organisations in many contexts, and they are also mentioned as absolutely indispensable in response actions. The state facilitates the efforts of volunteers through annual economic advances and provides for reimbursement of actual costs during rescue operations. Voluntary rescue operations have been distributed to emergency network terminals and are covered by expenditure related to this. The discussion about additional funds thinks we belong at home in the budget debate and not in the social security message. Before I came to the Stortinget, I was the spokesman for a small coastal municipality, definitely out in the district. One of the first assignments I received was the supervision of the emergency plan by the emergency officer at County State. It was quite terrible, the worst thing I've been with all my life, it was pure slaughter. After that, we took care of it. And that's what I mean -- the municipalities also have to take hold of, and they can get help from DSB counsellors. They are supervised by the state administrators, and they have the opportunity to follow their plans closely. I'll come back in a new post. This was too short a time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3546	The working party believes that there are still major deficiencies in the preparedness to be rectified. A functioning transport sector is necessary to maintain accessibility and accessibility, both in peacetime and in times of crisis. Many of the changes that the current government has implemented in the transport sector have provided increased fragmentation and potentially weaker social security in several transport sectors. The government has broken up and privatized. The pandemic has shown us the importance of good public, cooperative services when crises arise. In the road sector, the government has imposed large cuts and downsizing on the state road system. With increasingly wilder and wetter climates, with race and closed roads, it is important that we give priority to maintenance and racial protection from an emergency point of view. The scaffolding requirement will now cost us over 70 billion. kr. We also believe that an extra effort is needed on new technology and preventive step-by-step control that will provide much more security for the money faster, and we need an incentive scheme. The Government and Avinor plan to launch key operational and emergency tasks at our airports. In addition, there is talk of removing standby at some airports. The government launches and privatises the operation and maintenance of the infrastructure itself, such as track, rail, electricity, etc. on the railway. This changes the level of safety and makes it worse. The coastal works are in a reorganization where they go from geographical breakdown to so-called functional breakdown. There is a heavy responsibility here on the government to ensure that it does not affect our coastal preparedness. In the taxi industry there has been a free slip, and taxi stations in the district have put down the standby at night. Vital societal functions depend on a functioning mobile network and broadband with good coverage, even in terms of preparedness. It's a paradox that along the E6, on parts of it, there's still a lack of mobile coverage, and that 20,000 households lack basic broadband. Safety can be based not on commercial profitability but on community and Community solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3558	One of the most serious scenarios that we have to take into account when discussing social security in an uncertain world is attacks targeting the civilian population, attacks by either terrorist organizations, terrorist states or others who are out to panic and paralyze a state by creating fear and fear in the population, so that the state has to surrender or do other things. It is obvious that the scenarios of recent years after the Cold War have shown that that kind of threat is more present in the world, unfortunately, and we have to discuss them. How, then, should the civilian population protect itself? In the setting, there are two different tracks. One is self-prepared, and the other is shelter, places where you can seek cover. What is important to clarify is how the population is informed of which of the two options to choose in different situations. For the sirens that we have today, only give notice to seek shelter, and I think people will perceive that it is to seek shelter in shelter, which many do not know where is, and which in many cases are not suitable. When we focus on warning systems in the setting and in the staging message, we need to know which message to give, how to seek shelter – by self-sufficiency or in shelter. There is an overall committee – and that is fine – in favour of a decision called XVII, that it should: ‘An annual self-responsive campaign is launched to remind the population to ensure its own elementary needs if and when different crises occur’. That is an important point, an important decision, which I think needs to be elaborated. It was a good campaign with a brochure that was sent to all households in 2018 on self-sufficiency. It aroused a lot of interest, but it's clear that it's just the beginning of building this up out in the population. Many people don't remember that brochure anymore, many people need much more information about what's going on, and it's obvious that there's more than what it said in this brochure as well. So the second track for the population is looking for cover in shelter. I have discussed in the line change why we believe that it is necessary to maintain and improve that option. Proposals are being made today by the Centre Party, together with the Progress Party, to equip the shelters so that they provide real protection, and to present a plan for this, while a majority in the Committee promotes a proposal to use the shelters more, which also points in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3578	I will take the opportunity to raise a matter in Stortinget which is a little bit on the side of the processing of this emergency message itself. There is a proposal here as a loose proposal, and it is in the extension of a debate that we had in Stortinget a few weeks ago, where we discussed police stations in Oslo. During the previous examination of this matter, a confusion was created in the main hall about what the majority of the population, i.e. SV, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party, really meant about police stations in Oslo. Our intention has always been since the fall that we did not want a merger of police stations in Oslo. We want local police stations, and we expressed it with a decision in December. Then there has been an interpretation by both the Minister of Justice and the Oslo Police that they could be investigated away from that intention. That is why we were also presented with a proposal from the Oslo Police this week on a combined police solution at Kjelsrud in Oslo. It's important that the bulk of the population now removes any doubt about what we actually think about this. That is why we have tabled a loose proposal today, which makes it very clear that we do not want a unified solution to the police stations in the east of Oslo and in the south of Oslo. We want a structure with decentralised police stations, or police posts. That means that the proposal for a plan for Kjelsrud police station presented to us by the Oslo police force has nothing against us, but it has to be in addition to the local solutions, not in return for them. It is clear from the loose proposal that we are presenting today, which will have a majority in the Grand Duchy. With that, any doubt will be removed as to what the majority of the population wants in terms of police structures in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3585	I would like to take the topic of self-sufficiency, for this is an important and at the same time probably underestimated part of our total preparedness and social security. It's not an index finger that should be displayed when we talk about the readiness that each individual can provide for himself, but good information and useful advice. There is a need for a real awareness among many citizens and not least of what action individual and family can take to ensure that they are able to cope with a few days — and preferably longer — when different crises occur. In this cold, wet and steep country, this can be all about everything from break-throughs during cold periods, even during extreme cold periods, and decoupled communities because of race that takes the only road in. I am very pleased that the entire committee has supported the proposal from us in the Central Party to ask the government to ensure that an annual self-responsive campaign is carried out to remind the people of securing their own elementary needs if and when different crises occur. I hope that this will make a good contribution to a necessary awareness of the topic, and that people follow up on concrete planning and action that can help them in situations that may arise. This will also improve social security in general, as public, emergency and voluntary organisations can better concentrate on dealing with acute situations if most individuals and families are able to manage themselves for a limited period of time. I mean, I mean, I mean, during cold periods, and I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, We easily see situations in the long-distance districts when we think about crises, and that is most relevant. But in cities, the part that can do well is probably the lowest in many different crises. The fact that a tank, makes infection protection more difficult, we see, but many apartments don't have alternative heating to power either. We in the Center Party think there must be more to social security and preparedness in all planning, preferably both public and private. We also need to look at how cities and countries may have different problems, and recognise that urban people will be dependent on what is produced in the districts, of course, and what exists of shelter in the districts also in given situations. I started by telling you that we have had an impact on this annual self-responsive campaign. I'm looking forward to it. I think it'll actually help bring us forward, and that overall social security is getting better at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3602	The representative Klinge performed in his post to say that the government had shown poor judgment in connection with the possible sale of Bergen Engines. There's no reason to claim. It is allowed to live in a company in this country, even though it is undesirable on the part of the authorities. The government has spent time in the matter, evaluated all the aspects of the case, and the conclusion was quite clear in the Minister of Justice's comments. The representative Vågslid called for an honest debate in the context of preparedness, and concluded in the same vein that the implementation of the police reform has failed. It's not fair. It seems as if the Workers' Party is trying to go to the Center Party for a high time in terms of criticism of the police reform, but now let the Center Party be the Center Party. It seems that the Workers' Party has forgotten the starting point here. The police analysis was clear that the organisation of the Norwegian police was an obstacle to the development of better police services, although the budgets of the police — including the Labour Party government — had increased sharply. It also seems to be forgotten that out of 357 police offices, only 85 were able to provide a 24-hour patrol, which requires 16 years of work. The representative Jenny Klinge is still hammering on the police reform and, in a disrespectful way, also on the Police Directorate, as if this directorate is a collection of bureaucrats who are disconnected from their main responsibility: to lead the Norwegian police. That was precisely what the police analysis pointed out, that over many years Norwegian police had suffered from a lack of overall strategic leadership, autonomous police districts, which individually, among other things. developed a wildness of computer systems that were unable to communicate with each other. I dare remind both the Central Party and the Workers' Party that no agency has had such an increase in the number of employees as the police since 2013. I dare also remind the parties mentioned that the trust in Norwegian police among the population is high. It is even higher than other public agencies, even higher than the police in other countries. Actually, 94 pst. of the population in Norway are safe where they live. It's good to know. The rhetoric of the centre party, you might think, suggests something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3613	The government arrogance is the closest thing to touch and feel. In these debates, both on the police message and in today's debate, it strikes me that there are strikingly few members of the government party who are willing on this pulpit to recognize any faults or challenges, most recently in the post from the Haarek Riveres. I think it's nice to debate with Elves again, we've been sitting in the committee before, and we've had a lot of debates about the police reform. But I thought the government party should take the criticism more seriously. What we're discussing is serious stuff. We in the opposition have nothing against giving the government praise where they devour it. When it comes to implementing the near-police reform, we don't. It's easy to brag by the volunteers. All Norwegian politicians do, and the voluntary efforts we see in the rescue services, for example, are all very good. But the willingness to pay, to strengthen voluntary organizations, is not as much present in the government party. Case President Melvær points out that part of our proposals today is at home in the budgetary procedure. But it doesn't help to bring them forward either; they don't listen anymore if we suggest it in the budget. Then there are other excuses on why won't do anything about emergency network costs or VAT. We have seen the emergency eaters at their best several times in Norway, for example. during the disaster in Gjerdrum. There, many volunteers took part. Norwegian People's Aid and Red Cross were there with 30 emergency ambulances. When it comes to communication, I think a lot of people think that what we saw in the terrible days was a very good job across the nightlife and in the volunteer organizations. One thing I'm stunning at is that we haven't put in place a digital support tool, a common action tool. During the disaster in Gjerdrum, the police had to use the digital platform for Norwegian People's Aid in order to have a common digital coordination. We in the Labour Party think it should have been in place in public, so that one saw the same map and had a coordinated digital platform. I could imagine that someone from the government party said something about the reason why we haven't got it in place. We recognise that much is better, but there is still a lot left, and then we know very well, with the background of both the Yurv Commission and today's debate, that resources have to find each other, and we still have a challenge. I would like someone from the government party to answer that challenge from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3626	It's been a long time since we realized the severity of climate change. Fortunately, we go ahead in Norway – we cut emissions, and we create more jobs across the country. But in the rest of the world, it's not like that. Emissions don't go down, they go up, and that affects us in Norway. One of the consequences is more weather. We get more rain, more wind, and we probably get more summers as well as the one we had in 2018 – the world gets warmer. The impact of these climate change temperatures hit us in the north most harshly, in arctic areas. We have known this on the body of Svalbard – mountain breeds, fjords no longer freeze there, schools closed, urban areas moved. It's the Nordics who know about the body every day the big challenges climate change brings us. We get floods, more paces, storm floods, more floods. I was visiting Sogn and Fjordane a few years ago, just after the races went – in an area that was really not to be rascal, but because of intense rainfall and downpour in the days before the crash, it crashed where it would not rage. It made an enormous impression to be there. What made the strongest impression on me was that I met one of the children who felt the rage on a close team. He had filmed the crash that got closer, and we got to watch the film while the boy – I tipped him was about 10 – held the phone in his hand. What was most dramatic about that video wasn't the actual crash, it was the reaction of the boy, the absolutely unreservedly terrifying howls of his, and that he wept as the rage drew near. And it was a race that was triggered by climate change. Our municipalities and counties are being put to the test because of this. It is extremely important that the response capacities find each other, and there I will agree with the previous speaker, Lene Wagschlid. July 22 taught us a lot, but we learned it the worst way. As the pace progressed in Gjerdrum and it was a fact, it was in the middle of all the terrible good things to see how the various response actors actually communicated with each other and how they interacted. Much of the reason for this is the commitment to preparedness, the commitment to this in the municipalities, in particular the commitment to the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, which has worked a lot on this since 2011. They're doing a very important job, and that's why we're getting better at it. That's why I'm a little disappointed that the Center Party will be strutting DSB – which is also located in Tønsberg, in my home country – which is one of the most important actors on this with interaction. They'll choke it with millions of dollars in their alternative budget. Although preventing the loss of human life is the main focus when we work on preparedness, we should not forget the enormous impact this can have on us financially. We need strong and robust municipalities, we need a highly professional DSB, and the weakening of the Centre Party's preparedness is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3637	I hope I can finish an article this time without being too late. Instead, I was aware that there was a change of pace in municipal preparedness after the 22nd of July terror and the Gjørv Commission's report. State administrators, municipalities, all response actors were much more aware of their role in the preparedness process and in the development of plans. This is the result of today. Now report back more and more reports that each resource has found each other after events that have occurred. I think that a lot of municipalities are very good at their preparedness and planning, and that it's a high priority locally, but more can be even better, and I think we're going to have an ambition to do on behalf of our municipalities. There are good counsellors, there is good help and support to get, so this must only be a priority. The representative, Lene Vågslid, will talk about this with a common action tool. If I am not completely wrong – I will take a little rest there – it was said that it was under assessment. Otherwise, I heard that the representative in a previous post told the spokesperson that the fire department was going to perform a sharp task first. This is not true. They often come first to carbuoys, but it's maybe a little bit different than it's an association with sharp assignments. They're not a temporary police in any way. The police are responding more today, not less. But it is very good that the government initiates a review of the interaction between the three naudetates. It's an important job. So I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank you for a good and committed debate with many articles. It sounds like we're very disagreeable. In general, I think we're lucky in Norway because we have a big one that's essentially some of the big lines, and then we might disagree a little bit about the details of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3650	I want to go back a little bit to what might be the intention of the whole message. It has been a long time since Norway had a complete review of its preparedness — it was probably quite back when the Willoch Committee presented its investigation in 2000. Society has also changed considerably in these 20 years. The threat picture is unpredictable and unpredictable, and here in the country we have experienced terrorist incidents that have come as lightning from the clear sky. The digital space allows for data breach, espionage and impact campaigns to harm business, policy decision-making bodies and individuals. We've experienced it over and over again in the last few days. The security situation in our neighbourhoods has deteriorated, and the long-term defence plan now presented points to negative developments and will continue. Norway is a long-distance country with large sea areas, valuable natural resources, a small population and a neighbouring power. The Norwegian coast has a strategic military position that leads us to be more exposed to conflicts. So regardless of whether you are facing extensive terrorist attacks, pressure against the Norwegian border, infrastructure or central national institutions, or an invasion, you are dependent on having people all over Norway who have the ability and the will to protect their country and secure their community. The Norwegian food value chain is characterised by many scattered producers and few large actors involved in distribution and procurement. Norway itself produces less and less of the food we eat, and a very worrying consequence of this is that we become more dependent on the international export market. More floods, extreme weather, migration and race are the consequences of climate change in an already demanding topography. We have a wilder and wetter climate, and it has had major consequences for the construction, maintenance and maintenance of basic infrastructure such as sewerage, power supplies and roads. In the last five years, Prime Minister Erna Solberg, Right, the Progress Party and the various government partners have received 15 different proposals from the Centre Party to increase preparedness and ensure national control of societally critical functions in Norway, including a proposal from the Centre Party to set up a new Total Emergency Commission. Everyone has been put to the vote. I am not in the committee, but when I see a message with all the proposals that will receive a majority, I am absolutely convinced that in the future we must have a total preparedness committee that will be able to gather all the elements described in this communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3665	The representative, Martin Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3670	The striking thing about this debate, as well as the number of proposals that the government is suffering from defeat and almost being instructed by the Stortinget, is the extent to which the government responds to the weaknesses in preparedness that have been raised in the debate. These may include weaknesses identified following the attack on the Al-Noor mosque, which have far too many similarities with the Gjørv Commission’s reference, or in the case of interoperability challenges, where the NEXUS major research project has as its main conclusion that they do not find any evidence that the coordination problems have been resolved. The problem is that no one really evaluates the whole thing. As researchers Almklov, Antonsen, Bye and Ören said in 2018: The defense evaluates the defense, the police evaluate the police, and no one evaluates the whole. Or what about the weaknesses in the near preparedness, which we've addressed several times? Erna Solberg's statement from the 2017 election campaign that only the Right takes seriously has clearly marked both the party and the government, and that in a way that does not make Norway safer, because what we are left with is a brilliant debate, not a real debate on the challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3678	The representative of Haarek Rivers has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3683	I'm just going to clear up a manifest misunderstanding in the wake of the speeches by the representative, Mr. Fasteraunes. It has not been so long since a big message was submitted that went through the emergency situation. You don't have to go back as far as he suggested. I just remind you that this is the other social security message that this government is presenting. The first one took care of it, this one is more concerned with focusing on prevention. We never get into the goal of preparedness, because we are preparing for it partially unexpected and unknown, but there is no doubt that the political vigilance associated with preparedness and preparedness planning is now greater than it was a few years ago. It is also due to some external events, but political Norway is de facto more concerned about this and has it higher on the agenda than for example. under the government of Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3692	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3697	I feel that the representative, Mr. Wagzlid, is calling for an honest debate. I do, too, and then maybe we can put a little behind the 2017 debate on the police reform. There's a lot we can learn from, and that makes the police reform even better. Now it's about delivering to the police that's close to most people. I took the floor to clarify the vote of the Advance Party. We are going to support proposal No. 28, from the Labour Party, which is actually a rewriting of the proposal in the vote. Proposal No. 30 we have promoted together with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. In fact, we are also going to support proposal No. 29, although there is an investigation proposal, despite the fact that the Workers' Party could participate in the formation of a majority to ensure compensation for volunteers who give up their wages in order to stand up for Norway and for Norwegian security. It's sad, but we still support the investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3704	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3721	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3728	Norwegian working life is largely safe, productive and well organised. This has also been Norway’s foremost competitive advantage, but increasingly unprofessional players who dominate parts of the world of work are being challenged by illegal tenants who use poor pay and working conditions such as their competitive advantage, undeclared companies, paylifts and illegal contracts as business ideas. It is challenged by a low level of organisation, both among employers and employees, and many employees remain on their own, give up their employer, and have nothing to do with if the boss was to treat them badly. It is also challenged by a government that does not address the challenges of working life, which is constantly voting against proposals to strengthen the serious and organised working life, which weakens the rights of workers and makes it more expensive to be a member of a trade union. The fact that the right-hand side is not so concerned with trade unions is nothing new. It is strange that they are so actively committed to weakening the serious employers and business opportunities, because it is those who lose competition when unprofessionalism breaks down. It is sad that the government saw until the degrees thus go to attack what is Norway’s strongest competitive advantage. We have long seen that the pay and working conditions of workers are being put under pressure in industries such as hotels and restaurants, parts of construction, car wash, cleaning and transport by sea and along our roads, but it is spreading in more and more parts of the world of work – and the country – also in the air. For example, in the fall we saw. that Wizz Air wishes to enter the Norwegian market with a group leader who boasts that they do not have trade unions. By July at the latest, four Ukrainian employees were fired from the company because they were professionally organized. The ILO’s eight core conventions contain fundamental human rights and represent a minimum of rights to be respected in the workplace. This includes the right to freedom of organisation, collective bargaining, the prohibition of child labour, the prohibition of forced labour and the prohibition of discrimination. When actors who infringe fundamental labour rights as a competitive advantage are established in Norway, questions are naturally raised as to whether the ILO core conventions, freedom of organisation and collective bargaining actually have adequate protection under Norwegian law. That is why the Workers' Party has promoted the proposal under consideration today that these core conventions should be incorporated into the Human Rights Act in order to strengthen the status of these rights. The perhaps strongest reason for the need for this to happen is actually the right-wing government, paradoxically enough, that has delivered. In the case of a compulsory payroll between the Norwegian Medical Association and KS, they set aside the ILO and wrote that it was correct, although it might prove to be contrary to international obligations. Worse still, in the question of compulsory payroll, which the Stortinget dealt with yesterday, the department was one week before stopping in letter form from the LO memory that there were two independent strikes, but nevertheless evaluated the strikes together. It confirmed the Minister of Labour in yesterday's debate and, through it, narrowed them down to independent strikers. The government is trying to push health surveillance ahead of itself and says this is about health assessments, but it is up to the government itself to verify that the striker has actually been evaluated by the decision maker. Taking decisions on the right basis does not require any health professional competence. Obviously, the government has not. In addition, it was found that the actual basis was incorrect. The government is responsible for this and cannot push the Health Authority ahead of it. It is serious when the government in one case narrows down the strike on the wrong basis and therefore weakens the confidence that the rules of the labour market are being followed, that the conflict management system is working, and that Norway's international obligations are being respected. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3747	The ILO core conventions provide for minimum rights to be respected in the workplace. They can be divided into four main categories: freedom of organisation and collective bargaining, the prohibition of child labour, the prohibition of forced labour and the prohibition of discrimination. Norway has ratified all eight conventions and is therefore obliged to comply with them. This applies irrespective of how they were implemented in Norwegian law. It is up to each country to decide how this should be done. The Conventions have been implemented in Norwegian law by establishing legal harmonisation or by transformation. The principle of pre-emption, which is based on the assumption that Norwegian law is in conformity with international law, ensures that Norwegian law is interpreted and applied in line with the principles of international law of Norway, including the ILO core conventions. The argument in this case is very similar to the one we had in the case of the CRPD. The question of which international conventions should be incorporated into the Human Rights Act was carefully assessed in the preparatory work of the law. In 1993 the Human Rights Committee made assessments of the ILO Conventions on Combating Forced Labour and on Freedom of Organisation. For various reasons, the Conventions were not considered suitable for incorporation into the Human Rights Act. Nor in the proposition was it proposed to incorporate some of the ILO core conventions. The Ministry drew a distinction between conventions containing rights to a number of relationships which apply to all persons, regardless of age and sex, ethnicity and the like, and conventions which apply either to special groups of persons or to specific rights. The core ILO Conventions fall within the last category of Conventions. The right-hand view in this case is that if one is to open up to several conventions, questions will easily arise as to where the boundary will go. It could also be a perception that conventions incorporated into Norwegian law without priority are considered to be less important or otherwise. As a general rule, the principle that it is only the pronounced general conventions that are to be incorporated into the Law of Human Rights that we want to maintain. In the right, it makes sense to exercise restraint in incorporating conventions into the human rights law because, as part of the law, the conventions are given the step height above Norwegian law. This means that Norwegian legal sources are pushed into the background if there is a need to harmonise provisions that draw in different directions. The problem arises by adhering to legal standards developed elsewhere than in our legal system. We believe that this can represent a democratic problem, especially in view of the loss of control over how our own legislation should be interpreted, as well as the lack of control over who is shaping the interpretation rules. In particular, this will be put at the forefront where the Conventions have their own enforcement bodies, which may be composed of nations and people far from the Norwegian legal tradition. The right will uphold the principle that it is the pronounced general conventions that should be incorporated into the human rights law, and we therefore do not vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3760	For the second time today, we are dealing with a proposal from a red-green party that is about incorporating international conventions into the human rights law. Once again, we see that the Red-Green Party is more concerned with international conventions and structures than is the case with the Norwegian People's Government. In fact, I see it this way, because obviously you do not trust that in this room, in the Norwegian storehouse, we can take care of Norwegian legislation ourselves. That is a democratic problem. It's a development that we've seen over time, that we're approximating these international conventions and structures and choosing to put them above Norwegian law. Yes, it can even seem like you want to make the Storting unemployed, because we can only adopt a whole lot of conventions, and then we can take the day off. What are we going to sit here and treat for? There are some people who have thought better than us in the ILO or in the UN or what it might now be of international constructions. The Progress Party is in principle: we want Norwegian legislation to be governed by Norway. That's actually what it means when you want to take care of Norwegian independence, take care of our right to rule ourselves, take care of Norwegian democracy, the Norwegian People's Government. Once again, the Progress Party chooses to have a principle approach to these things. You can always find arguments in each case to choose to set international conventions over Norwegian law and let the interpretation room be governed by others. There are many examples of anything other than democratic countries that are involved in the kind of work, countries that do not respect the same human rights and the same conventions themselves, but that are to correct Norway, which is the world's foremost concern in most areas of human rights and international conventions. I demand an ability among the red-green parties to think in principle about these things. I think it is particularly worrying about the Central Party, which at least in public wants to present itself as a party that will take care of the Norwegian People's Government. In this case, once again – for the second time today – there is a desire to put Norwegian legislation and interpretation on how Norway should deal with international conventions, out to others. It does not accept the Advance Party. That is why the Progress Party is on that side today that is ensuring that this is fortunately put to the vote. I hope we can have a little more principleal approach to these things, so that we don't get in each case the kind of issue where it's not difficult to argue that this particular case is so important, that this particular case should be handled extraordinarily by incorporating it into the Human Rights Act. Then you also have to understand the consequences of that. That means that the Storting gives up power, that means that the People's Government is what's hurting, and our own interpretation room gets hurt. The Progress Party is voting against, and fortunately we are forming a majority today to vote this down.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3777	We were told a couple of hours ago that LO leader Hans-Christian Gabrielsen is dead, abruptly and unexpectedly, and when we discuss a matter that is highly concerned with Norwegian trade union movement and LO, it may be in place, and I hope I am allowed to express my condolences to his family from the Stockholm pulpit. If he had lived now, he would definitely have been interested in this discussion. So I want to extend a condolences to his family and to his closest associates. This issue is therefore about the fact that we are experiencing an increasingly brutal working life, with more and more labour rents and an increasingly unprofessional working life and with precarious working conditions for workers, not only in Norway, but around the world. The debate over the last few days on the World Cup in Qatar is to the extent an illustration of the global conditions we are facing. In some countries, this also leads to social riots. It not only affects workers, it also affects serious employers and serious owners, as the representative of Grande also pointed out. The user-friendliness of the world of work also affects, I think, competitive conditions. In fact, many around the world, in international business, want to respect good working conditions, but if you are forced into poor working conditions, it will definitely also affect competitive conditions. That is why it is absolutely essential, SV would say, that we are getting ILO core conventions more into Norwegian law, for example. by being incorporated into the Human Rights Act, which is the proposal. It will provide employers in Norway with better legal protection, which will allow ILO conventions to be more widely used as legal sources, and will give a clearer signal to both employers and owners, both nationally and internationally. It will strengthen the ILO, and – it is not unimportant – to contribute to strengthening the international work of the ILO is also a crucial task, I believe, for the Storting. So the government parties and the Progress Party say, and we could hear the representative Ingunn Foss say instead, that this is unnecessary because we already have commitments about this. We can also read in their comment that it will confuse Norwegian labour law because there will be a conflict of interpretation and what really applies – is it the ILO, is it Norwegian law, or what is it really? This is how the note can be read – that this will create more confusion than clarity. They then asked in sum to show a restraint in entering into this and to attach that type of convention more strongly to Norwegian legislation. I disagree. I believe that it is a passive approach, and it shows a lack of willingness to strengthen the legal protection of Norwegian working life, which is definitely necessary. There is also a lack of a strong willingness to strengthen the ILO internationally. I believe that this proposal is important, but it is also important to point out, as SV does in our remark, that it will not solve all the challenges in Norwegian working life. In fact, Section 120 of the EEA Agreement ensures that the EEA prevails in Norwegian labour law, and it is completely independent of ILO conventions, so linking ILO’s core conventions to Norwegian human rights legislation will not change the fact that the EEA Agreement actually prevails in conflicts in Norwegian employment. SV will support the proposal of the Workers' Party, but I believe that if we are to make the changes that I believe both the SV and the Workers' Party are concerned, we must also have a race in which we change that part of the EEA Agreement that makes the EEA Agreement take precedence over employment conflicts in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3794	The ILO’s eight core conventions provide for minimum rights to be respected in the workplace. Norway has ratified the eight conventions and is obliged to comply with them. This applies irrespective of how they were implemented in Norwegian law. The Conventions have been implemented in Norwegian law, either by finding that Norwegian law already complies with the Convention obligations or by its own implementing legislation. For example, in 2000 changes were made to the penal code and the protective duty law in the context of the ratification of the ILO Convention on the Prohibition and Immediate Elimination of the Worst Forms of Child Labour. Furthermore, the presumption principle helps to ensure that Norwegian law is interpreted and applied in line with international obligations, including the ILO core conventions. I would like to stress that the interests of the core ILO Conventions are protected by the Constitution and by human rights conventions that have already been incorporated into the Human Rights Act. This applies, for example: the right to freedom of organisation. The question of which Conventions should be incorporated in preference to the Law on Human Rights has been carefully considered in the past, such as: by the Human Rights Committee, which considered that the ILO Conventions on Freedom of Association and on Combating Forced Labour were not suitable for incorporation into the Human Rights Act. When examining the human rights law, the Judicial Committee stated that it was not appropriate to incorporate all human rights conventions into the human rights law. Both the Government and the Storting have repeatedly stressed that incorporation into the Human Rights Act should be reserved for the pronounced General Conventions. When incorporating the UN Convention on Women’s Rights into the Human Rights Act in 2009, the Ministry stated that inclusion with priority should be reserved for exceptional cases and that ever-increasing incorporation could lead to an opinion that conventions not incorporated into the Human Rights Act are considered to be less important or otherwise. In my view, these principles should be maintained. I also point out that on 16 May 2019, the Stortinget examined a proposal for the incorporation of the ILO’s core conventions into the Human Rights Act. The proposal was not adopted. The same reasons that spoke against incorporation two years ago, in my view, also apply today. The ILO core conventions are important conventions that guarantee workers central rights, but the conventions have already been sufficiently implemented in Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3815	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3820	In its contribution to its view, the Council of State shows that the ILO’s core conventions are already well respected in the law and through the international commitments of Norway. However, in the case of compulsory payroll between the Norwegian Medical Association and KS recently, the ILO was set aside in the government's assessment of whether the compulsory payroll was legal. The government has also received strong criticism for its intervention during the hospital strike in 2019, and now last in the conflict between Parat/YS and NHO and the Trade Union/LO and NHO. Now, the professional responsibility for dealing with these strikes and forcing payrolls to other departments is not the Minister of Justice, but does the Minister of Justice not see that the ILO Conventions are not sufficiently strong in the law when they can be set aside so easily when it is put at the head, and when the actual basis is not ensured before strike ends?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3825	This is how we have applied the presumption principle in Norway. There has been a large majority in favour, and the Labour Party has also been part of that majority. Even when the Law on Human Rights was passed, the premise was that all conventions should not be incorporated, but one should assume that Norwegian law is in line with the conventions. This means that, to the extent that it is not in line with the conventions, the law is amended. Then there may be interpretative doubts relating to the conventions. They're made in a language other than Norwegian. There may be unclear scope, and there may be unclear content. There is no doubt that I am in favour of a policy of interpretation of the law in Norwegian courts and legislative developments in the Norwegian Grand Duchy, not in international UN committees. It is simply a political vision. That means that I am as concerned with human rights as that representative is, but I have a different view of how it should be laid down in Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3832	Now the Workers' Party does not propose the inclusion of all the Conventions. It is a dream of ILO conventions, and we propose that the core conventions – the eight most fundamental human rights conventions – should be incorporated into the human rights law. Another problem is that today it is only the state that can be held responsible for breaches of the ILO conventions, and it rarely ends up with anything more than references. The government parties then forget that by getting this into the human rights law, private parties will also be responsible for enforcing the rights. Does the Council of State actually believe that the ILO conventions are strong enough today? And does the Council of State in that case believe that there will be no significance whatsoever if the ILO core conventions are incorporated into the human rights law of private actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3840	I therefore believe that the presumption principle should be applied. That's what Stortinget meant, too. That is what the Workers' Party has meant. So it's not the government that's changed its mind, it's the Greatness that might have done if this was to be adopted. So what we're going to do is we're going to stick to the conventions. These are important conventions. They shall be taken into account and shall be presumed to be in Norwegian law. But in case of doubt and interpretation, Norwegian courts and Norwegian magnificence are going to do it. I believe that the Law of Human Rights is getting worse from ever-increasing incorporations, and it is only the second time today that I am discussing with the Workers' Party whether to incorporate conventions. It makes it an a and b layer, where those who are incorporated are expected to be more important than those who do not. It's not like that. These are important conventions. But we're not going to include everyone in Norwegian law. So we're going to assume that we're going to start with something.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3847	With the right-hand majority, there'll be an a and b layer in this, where you'll see that when it's put on the top, you give priority to pushing international conventions aside, as the ILO has done in a number of examples under today's government. But what is so important to establish is that private actors also have a responsibility to enforce the rights associated with these conventions. We have a number of examples from Norwegian working life that private parties are not held responsible for breaches of these rights. Does the Council of State not see that getting this into the Law of Human Rights would also have strengthened the responsibility of the private social partners, and thereby also the enforcement of these rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3854	I just have to repeat that it is the Workers' Party that has now – in an election year, I suppose at random – gone beyond the principle of presumption and is in favour of the principle of incorporation. There is nothing to prevent the Workers' Party, if they want to change Norwegian law and grant additional rights to groups, from promoting legislative proposals on it and dealing with it here. What we're trying to do here is change the Norwegian law using the incorporation of international conventions. I'm against that kind of legal development. I believe that the debate, initiative and development will take place here in this Chamber. And then I also think we're not going to make an a- and b-layer. We're going to assume that both the ones we pretend to be in line with Norwegian law, and the ones we incorporate, are equally important. But it's about the way we're doing this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3861	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3868	I am only taking the word to say that, in addition to the fact that the Workers' Party is committed to incorporating these eight core principles into the ILO Convention into Norwegian law, we believe that the EEA does not stand in the way of doing so, as claimed by SV here from the interlocutor and from the Central Party and SV in the vote. The interpretation by the Centre Party and the SV that the EU should be able to block fundamental rights and freedoms is an interpretation such as: The Legal Service of the LO does not agree. The EEA Agreement does not prevent the ILO core conventions from being incorporated into the Human Rights Act and given precedence over other provisions. The Legal Department of LO and Professor Finn Arnesen of UiO have clearly stated that there is no legal obstacle to giving such status to the ILO core conventions – that there is only a political issue about the ILO conventions to be incorporated into the Human Rights Act, as the Labour Party and the LO Congress have called for. The interpretation expressed here by the SV and the Central Party shows that the provisions of the EEA Agreement precede other international agreements concluded by Norway, including, inter alia: ILO, the argument used in this case, while we did not hear that concern when we dealt with another convention earlier today, namely the CRDP, as SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre were unfortunately voted down to incorporate into Norwegian law. So if you're going to base the line that SV and the Central Party are doing here, it's all about international agreements or conventions that you'd like to join or incorporate. The fact that the EEA disagrees with being able to do that, we disagree. With another political majority, which takes employee rights seriously, including the ILO will strengthen the rights of the labour market. So it's not the EEA, but the different political majority in Norway who decide how far you're going in both securing employee rights and following up what's in those conventions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3877	Are there any limits to human rights? Is there really any place where it ends, or is it such that international conventions should override any idea of what fundamental human rights are? The fundamental human rights are freedom of expression, equality and equality. That's what the fundamental rights and human rights are. We've expanded this to all sorts of strange things. You have the right to work – who is going to give this work? We have the right to a good standard of living – who should give this standard of living? This has been adopted by the United Nations. Where's the limit going? Where do you stop saying that someone else should give a right? It's just the Western countries, just the well-developed countries, just democracies that give some of this, and even here it's law food. No other country cares about this. The representative of SV referred to Qatar. You can adopt as much as you want in the United Nations, but Qatar is not going to care about it at all. How can you push Qatar in front of you because you think there are some human rights in the ILO Convention to help Norwegian workers by minimum standards? That is a completely meaningless starting point. There's no logic in this. Clearly, the standard of living and culture in a country will affect many of the things I mentioned here. What is a balanced standard of living or a good standard of living or an intermediate standard of living? It's a lawyer's food. Is it $300,000, $500,000, $700,000? Who's going to define it? Is it not the social partners in Norway to define it, is it not the UN? Why do we sit and discuss something that really shouldn't have been discussed at all? This discussion was to be national in all legislative assemblies, and then a compromise was to be reached on the basis of living standards, the money you have, how to distribute resources in society, and that is different in all countries. That's the starting point, not that anyone decides anything we're going to do. The countries that adopt this are undemocratic at the outset and do not follow these decisions themselves. But we're going to decide that we're going to adopt it, and then socialists in Norway and other countries in Europe come and tell us to follow it. Freedom of establishment – how do you get to these things if you don't want to do it nationally? It's a utopian belief that this is going to be international, and that everyone is going to follow it all over the planet. It could be a dream, but it doesn't work that way. We are elected by the Norwegian people, and we are to rule in Norway, the UN is not to rule us. Then we break with the basic duty we have towards the inhabitants of our own country, and socialists everywhere should understand that it is actually Norway that we represent, Norwegian citizens. The UN is not going to decide what to do in this room, and how to take care of the Norwegian people in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3894	The president asks people to be careful about addressing each other directly in the hall. We talk through the President, and we talk about each other as representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3899	I guess I wasn't really prepared to take a general discussion about the place of human rights in Norway and the world. I just want to bring up some basic fundamental issues in order to express a clear ideological disagreement between the Progress Party and my party – and I think the vast majority, really – stand for it. The party of progress is probably alone in the views of Tybring-Gjedde. International human rights is a standard that has been agreed on – a minimum standard for how people think they should live. They must be universal, and they must apply to all human beings, regardless of race, sex, ethnicity, etc. We have agreed on that standard in several international organisations, both through the UN and the European Convention on Human Rights. It's a right that people have, not a right that politicians hand out – it's an important difference: it's a right that people have. The conventions to which these rights have been written are agreements between countries aimed at ensuring that countries are kept in an international network of obligations to respect those rights in the best possible way. That is the purpose of the Conventions. The conventions give us an opportunity to criticise other countries, to monitor other countries, and they also give other countries an opportunity to criticise and monitor Norway. The principle is usually a ‘naming and shaming’ mechanism, where we tell other countries that we believe there is a violation of human rights, that that country tortures its citizens, that country jails people without law and judgment, or that that country denies an ethnic group the right to education or the right to health. So we can use the rights or the conventions to criticize each other. I believe that it is absolutely essential that we have this Convention tool in place, because unlike Tybring-Gjedde, I believe that a woman from Nigeria, a man from Cuba or a Venezuelan politician should have exactly the same rights as Ola and Kari in Norway, and that in Norway we also have an obligation to ensure that people elsewhere in the world have their fundamental rights respected. I believe that the Storting has a duty not only to ensure the rights of the Norwegian people, but also to ensure that we have international conventions working for people in other countries to get it as well as we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3912	The representative Tybring-Gjedde comes with an amazement of a few rights and freedoms which he himself holds high, and thus obviously expects everyone else to hold high, while what he himself does not hold so high; neither should anyone else be concerned about. He forgot the freedom of the press. Whether it is because of a forgetfulness or because he shares the view of the person whom he nominated at the Nobel Peace Prize, perhaps Tybring-Gjedde himself can explain from this pulpit, but it is interesting that freedom of the press was not mentioned as a fundamental freedom to defend from parliaments. After Trump had to leave as president in the United States, the trade union movement in the United States says that now the knee over the neck is removed. Now the trade unions can finally start breathing again after several years where they have been kneeling down, under the example of Tybring-Gjedde, Donald Trump. With regard to the proposals we have made, one might ask, what is Tybring-Gjede having problems accepting? Does he have any problems with people having the right to strike? Does he have any problems with people having the right to organize? Does he have problems with a ban on child labour or a ban on forced labour? Is it this that makes him fire so up that he comes and keeps that post as he does? No, I think it's about him really wanting a completely different society than the social-democratic society. It represents a completely different direction, but it is also completely historyless, because what has brought the world and Norway forward are collective agreements, not societies with the most powerful right. The oil money that Tybring-Gjedde and the Advance Party love to be around, Norway has been given the exclusive right through the law of the sea and the UN, an organisation that they otherwise love to roam. It is through an organized world that small countries such as Norway do not stand alone, it is through an organized working life that workers do not stand alone, and it is through an organized society that each individual does not stand alone. So the article from Tybring-Gjedde only represents a completely different view of value, a completely different view of society. It's okay that it's said, but they'll have to. We will continue to fight for the ILO into the law, the human rights law. It's not just an electoral campaign, we're going to do that on the day we get into government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3925	The representative Tybring-Gjedde had a relatively incomprehensible post that was not about the matter, but something quite different. There are actually two things that stand out in that article. One is that the representative almost made a statement against human rights. He asks rhetorically, yes, who is going to follow up on these human rights? So he mentions a few and forgets most of the others, whether it's press freedom, freedom from slavery and torture, or a long series of other fundamental rights. These are rights as countries to which Norway joins and are therefore obliged to follow. On the question of who is going to follow this up — whether there is some strange institution on the other side of the sea, a kind of international foreign body — the answer is that Norway is going to follow it up. We've said that this is fundamental human rights. If your human rights are violated, it is the responsibility of the state to ensure that they are respected. That's why we have the Children's Ombudsman, the Civil Ombudsman, the Patient and User Ombudsman, the Defence Ombudsman and a wide range of other institutions to follow it up. That's what I thought the representative Tybring-Gjedde had brought. Therefore, his article is more than special. But what I may think the post of the representative Tybring-Gjedde of the Progress Party is more an expression – an intervention that actually argues against human rights at the supranational level, a vision that he neither supports in the Stortinget nor in today's Progress Party – is that this is a symptom and a foretaste of the fight in the Progress Party between the national conservative part, of which Tybring-Gjedde is probably a part, an increasingly radicalized part of the Advance Party, and the more moderate wing of the Progress Party. The internal debate should preferably take place in the Progress Party. I believe it is a challenge for Erna Solberg and the government to see the progressive radical elements of the Progress Party draw this kind of debate into the Grand Duchy, but it is therefore primarily an internal debate in the Progress Party. And it's perhaps a taste of what we have in store for the next few years, both with new leadership in the Advance Party and that we see that flies in the Advance Party are still being radicalized. Out of what was a rather incomprehensible contribution in the beginning, we might understand the outlines of a debate that is primarily not pleasing to the leadership of the Progress Party and to the assembly of Erna Solberg on the civil side.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3941	The President will ask the representatives to ensure that, in the debate below, we are strictly dealing with the matter under discussion. Paragraph 55, first paragraph of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3946	This is about very important international conventions that underpin the rights of the labour market. I'm both a little bit surprised and quite worried because I see that working internationally to civilize the world through these kind of conventions, whether it's through the UN or through the ILO, there's obviously a lot of parties that are now drifting away from. It is a way of trying to organise what is going to happen at national level, but also to agree on this internationally, so that one can raise the standard, and not least lift many of the people in different societies who do not have fundamental rights and who cannot live up to their work. I have grown up in Norwegian trade union movement. It is absolutely essential that there is power in the labour market and money is distributed. It's the most important distribution mechanism we have in society. It has created great values in Norway that we have managed to lift workers' rights, that we have secured them. And we've worked internationally, through the ILO, to establish the core conventions and a number of other conventions. It's been very important. In very many countries, these rights are a distant dream. Then it is important that countries like Norway go ahead, because we can even point to the state budget and say that this goes in plus for the country as a whole. It is positive to work after this. And for human rights, it is absolutely essential that the ILO core conventions are recognised at a high level as human rights in our legislation. In the case of international agreements, such as: The WTO, which is, and seems to be, quite unproblematic in this Chamber, is where sanctions are available against individual countries. As far as human rights are concerned, there is no penalty for individual countries in these systems, but there is an obligation for the country to raise its level to this minimum. And then you can get a index finger and a reference, but that's not supranationality in these matters. I record that those who are most concerned with the money accept that there should be international sanctions if there is someone with a lot of money who loses their rights. It says a little bit about the political lines in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3957	I record that I got some socialists up on the pulpit, and nothing delights me more than to debate against socialists. It is not that a conservative, liberal or national Conservative does not also want workers and employers to have good conditions, both to create jobs and to have profitable jobs and to have a job. But we believe that the UN should not define this. If you call it a minimum or a maximum, or what you do – it's up to the social partners. Because, in fact, there are also socialists who are most busy talking about the social partners, but if the social partners have already agreed on things in the UN, they don't have to work any more here in Norway. That's the point. About the fundamental human rights: I actually said freedom of speech, because it was about not saying freedom of the press. Yes – freedom of expression is freedom of the press. That's the exact same thing. The concept of freedom of expression came before freedom of the press, because there are different forms of expression in different media. And I can repeat the fundamental human rights once again: it's equality, equality, freedom of expression, freedom of religion and voting. That's what we're going to work for. If you think you have something that is extremely unique for exactly what you're concerned about, whether it's climate or environment or anything, you go to the United Nations and say, "Let's get the United Nations to adopt it." Then we can say here in Norway that the United Nations has adopted it, and then we have a right to it, and then there can come many lawyers and organizations and say, look here, the United Nations has adopted it, come on, implement it. If we have money for that, we don't care, because the United Nations has adopted it. So it is this assembly that is going to adopt what we think is best for Norway. A minimum standard in another country, in Cuba or Venezuela, which was mentioned up here – as if I wasn't going to be equally concerned with a woman in Cuba or a man in Venezuela: what does that have to do with the case? It has nothing to do with this matter. What we want is for Norway and this national assembly to agree on a resource allocation, how we manage our resources, and how we allocate our resources. It's not the United Nations that's going to do it. If you mean that, you might as well not keep up in this room -- if that's the case, it's the United Nations that's going to define what we're going to mean here. It can't be so hard to understand that the more we adopt in the United Nations, the less we can adopt here, the less flexibility we have – if a socialist should be able to look at the United Nations every time, we should be able to show that it has already been adopted, so we don't have to discuss it. It is absolutely fundamental that we are able to have disagreements and discuss this on the basis of political parties and differing opinions, and not make stigmatizing accusations, start talking about party politics and how to split the party, like Donald Trump, with a little laugh from the hall. These are quite big things we are talking about, which define a lot of what concerns us all, which concerns our country – and in this case also concerns us globally. The party of progress is just as concerned with the rights of workers as the socialists are in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3974	What this is all about is the very basic conventions of the ILO. It is about freedom of organisation, collective bargaining, the ban on child labour, the ban on forced labour and the ban on discrimination. Me and SV are very pleased that you have managed to reach an international agreement on this. I'm a little surprised if there's anyone in this room who thinks this is something the United Nations is going to force on us. No, this is what Norway has been negotiating in Geneva and has been driving for many years to get it in place. These are absolutely basic rights to be able to function as a self-employed person in the workplace at all, not to engage in gross exploitation of people, and not to be alone. I am very surprised, because it is completely wrong, the impression that someone is trying to create in this case, and also in the previous case. We will negotiate international conventions, agree on them and then incorporate them into Norwegian law. It has to be a prerequisite when we say that we agree on these conventions, that we do it. It is important that countries like Norway go ahead and do this and say that this is fundamental human rights, because that is what it is. It's not that it's just the political and civil rights that are fundamental human rights. They can never be realised unless the social and economic conditions are in place and there are fundamental rights in the labour market, such as freedom from child labour and the right to organise, for example: I record a trend that I see internationally, and as I also see in Norway, where fewer parties on the right-hand side are not now interested in making an international commitment to human rights, and the way in which the world is civilised – both in its own countries and in inter-country cooperation. I have to say, I'm pretty worried about that, because it's important to put fundamental rights in place. We're not threatened here in Norway, but it's incredibly important that we get this in place as part of our law. It will also be possible to use it internationally to press for the strengthening of these rights. Because if you want to bring down the differences in the world, and that's what SV wants, you have to strengthen the employee rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3985	It has been quite special to sit in this room and listen to the opposition's debate on this matter. As the President quite rightly pointed out, this issue is about how to implement the ILO core conventions in Norwegian law. When it is claimed that the government is not concerned with human rights and workers' rights, it is absolutely incredible to sit and listen to. Norway has ratified all the Conventions and is therefore obliged to comply with them. This applies regardless of how they were implemented in Norwegian law. What matters is that we believe that the Storting should adopt the Norwegian laws, and that upholding legal norms developed elsewhere than in our own system can pose a democratic problem. So it's been a very nice debate to sit and listen to, and it must be clear that the government is as concerned about employees' rights as it is about the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e3994	I just wanted to redraw myself now because I listened to Karin Andersen's approach to the discussion here today. Again, if you don't really understand or don't want to understand – that's probably the last thing – the difference between incorporating something into the law on human rights and complying with a convention that's ratified in this room. In fact, there is a significant difference, there is a great difference, and it is important for how to deal with the legislation to which you commit – whether it is to be done through Norwegian courts, or whether it is to be up to others outside Norway. In other words, we give sovereignty, our own ability to be masters in our own house, and I believe that there is reason to warn against that. One sees it over time to an ever greater extent – and as I was in my previous post, we've only discussed two conventions that you want to incorporate today – and that means in the long run that we define the Norwegian big thing, we define the Norwegian People's Government, and we refuse to rule our own house. It's the Progress Party against it. We have a principle approach. That doesn't necessarily mean that we can't agree with the content of many of the issues that are really being discussed. But it is to be governed from here, and the assessment of whether we are complying, we should be able to do so in Norwegian courts – we should not do that in international forums. Here's the progress party in principle. As I also said, I think it's a little sad that the Center Party, which likes to think of itself as – and like to present itself as – a party that puts Norway first, does not always do so in practice. At least that's what the Progress Party is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4005	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4010	What's said is wrong. There is no sanctioning option in the ILO towards countries. There are no sanctions in the United Nations against countries. But we who believe that the text of these conventions is correct and want to commit ourselves to them, want to incorporate them into Norwegian law, so that they become a commitment to us. It is simply a mistake when someone says this is to give sovereignty. No one in these systems can impose anything on Norway. On the other hand, in the WTO and in the EEA mechanisms it is necessary for the Norwegian economy to change, for example. law or to deal with rules. So I just record that in terms of freedom of capital, you're in favour of sanctions, but in terms of freedom for workers, you're against including it in the human rights law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4015	Per-Willy Amundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4020	I did not say one word about penalties in my post. And how this is sanctioned, there's one side of the case. The question is: are the Norwegian courts to be allowed to interpret it, or do we want it to be some random committee, preferably with representatives from countries that are anything but democratic – Saudi Arabia, for example. or Iran – which is going to tell Norway how to live up to human rights? I prefer the first. I prefer that there are Norwegian courts that decide whether we comply with international conventions. I believe in the rule of the people, and I think we should be masters of our own house.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4025	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4044	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4051	So this is a whole bunch of things, so here it might be a little bit shorter. This is about the weapons law that came into place in 2018, and the necessary changes relate to him. The Committee is in agreement and, while waiting for a new weapons regulation, the weapons law of 2018 has not yet entered into force. In addition to the purely linguistic nature, the government proposes that this should be done, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t to provide a regulatory housing for the storage of prohibited weapons, parts of weapons and ammunition in a place other than where the owner of the weapon is restrained; to amend the rules on the import and export of firearms, etc. without a European weapons passport in new weapons regulations that prohibited the use of semi-automatic rifles under Section 5, second paragraph, No. 3 shall enter into force one year after the entry into force of the Arms Act: During the examination of the matter, the Government Party and a Joint Committee have changed the setting in respect of item 3. A joint committee now states in its opinion that we point out that the adoption of new weapons law in 2018 stated that the ban on semi-automatic rifles would come into force three years after the law came into force. The committee believes that the ban on semi-automatic rifles is good grounds, let me stress it. However, it is important that arms owners who are under the ban may remain stable and sustainable when they are first required to translate, deactivate or surrender their weapons. The Committee would therefore like to maintain the original deadline of three years, and it would be proposed in the vote. The Storting’s decision on new weapons law made it necessary to draw up a new weapon regulation. In connection with that work, the government, like a writing in the proposition, has become aware of several aspects that need to be clarified in the Arms Act. We point out that, following a closer assessment, the government has concluded that certain conditions should be regulated in a different way from those laid down in the new Arms Act, and we refer to the letter from the Ministry of Justice and Defence that mentions it. I also refer to the proposal we agree with in the vote when it applies to the penal code § 189.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4080	The decision to ban semi-automatic weapons is an important follow-up to the recommendations of the Gjørv Commission. With this ban, we mark a complete follow-up to everything we were recommended to do to strengthen our preparedness after July 22nd. For the government it has been important to follow up all the recommendations, which has now been made. In 2018, we adopted a completely new weapon law, and it was decided that a ban on semi-automatic rifles should come into force three years after the promise was made, something the case spokesman did well for, and even if we believe that the ban is good grounds, we still want to keep the deadline of three years before one year. It has been a long time since the decision on arms laws and the ban on semi-automatic rifles was taken, in 2018, but for the sake of weapons owners who have been banned, we believe it is right to hold on to the three-year period from the date of entry into force. Suspicious temptations are important when weapons owners are first imposed such a prohibition. In view of this, the government party wishes to maintain the original deadline of three years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4089	The party to the progress is very pleased with the choice to deal with the old three-year period in the case of transitional rules. It is absolutely necessary for people to be able to adapt to the changes that have occurred. Let me just say that if you hadn't chosen to go into this from the government parties, it's pretty likely that the Storting had found it out on behalf of the government. It is good that there is a unanimous committee that will clean up this. Then I would say that the Progress Party reserves the right to return to the Arms Act in an appropriate context. This is not necessarily the case, even though the Progress Party put in government and promoted the arms law passed by Stortinget at the time, that we necessarily agree with that arms law at all points. It may be that we are going to make proposals for adjustments, but we will come back to that in a later context. We note, at least, that there is an overall committee which agrees on what we are adopting here today. That's good. So I don't have to help pull the debate out. We have discussed this well and for a long time today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4102	When Stortinget adopted the changes in weapons law in 2018, we were a few about a lot, but the issue was especially the prohibition that was agreed with retroactive force against some types of semi-automatic rifles. These are weapons that have been bought legally for legal purposes, such as hunting, and those who have acquired these weapons have spent a lot of money on this. Yet all the parties at that time, apart from the Center Party, thought that the arms owners would not be compensated for the economic losses that would be inflicted on those who are forced to give away these rifles. It goes without saying that it is not easy to sell weapons that are banned in a few years' time. At that time, a three-year transitional arrangement was agreed between the regulations, so that at least these weapons owners would have a little time to change their mind. The government now performs to return to Stortinget with a proposal to shorten this transitional regime from three to one year. It's straight forward. Fortunately, the Right in the Committee opposes its own government, and it is a consensual committee that is in favour of maintaining the original three years. The Central Party has submitted a proposal for its own representative to put in place a compensation scheme for those who are under ban with retroactive effect. We hope that the other parties this time have been given enough thought to understand that it is unreasonably that many individuals suffer significant disadvantages without financial compensation of what was a violation of Norwegian law-making practice in this area, namely that the ban was given retroactive effect. I refer to the comment from the Center Party from the treatment of arms laws in 2018, which explains our view of both the ban and the compensation regime better than the comments on the matter today. We will also come back to this when the representative's proposal is discussed in the Justice Committee and the Stortinget in ours. I would like to make it clear that it would then only be lacking that the Storting insists that the transitional arrangement should last for three years, but it is fine that it does. There's enough of the unseemly in this case. I would like to end by saying that it is nice that there are more flexible rules for the storage of weapons for commuters and students, among others.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4117	The Committee has made a thorough assessment of the proposals for amending the Arms Act. One of the proposals was to amend the transitional rule so that the ban on semi-automatic rifles with the highest potential for damage can enter into force one year after the law came into force, rather than three years, as the Stortinget adopted in 2018. However, the Committee has decided not to amend the transitional provision. These weapons have such potential for damage that they should not be in circulation longer than is strictly necessary. However, there is a balance between that consideration and the predictability of arms owners affected by the prohibition. A three-year transitional rule will make it easier for owners of such weapons to comply with the prohibition. That means that I also understand the Committee's reasoning. I am pleased that the Committee supports the other proposals in the proposal. The new Arms Act was adopted in 2018. Pending new weapons regulations, the law has not yet entered into force. It is planned to take place on 1 June of this year and I am pleased with the overall position of the Committee so that the legislation can be put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4126	No one has asked for the word in reply. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4145	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4152	Red has put forward a proposal to grant exceptional housing support in a situation where we both have pandemics and where power prices are extremely high. The treatment of the emergency package reached an agreement on such an exceptional increase, as referred to in the remarks in this suspension. It is good that there are some changes to be made in this area. We also got that in the first crisis package, more like a crisis package solution, but also when it comes to exceptionally high power prices. The Storting has done it several times. Then I expect the other parties to prepare their views on the matter. From the SV side it has been important – I have been here for quite a while now, and I have seen that we have had to do this a few times because it has been extraordinary. At the same time, we know that the value of the housing support has fallen very much, and that fewer and fewer people are getting housing support, while housing costs are very, very much higher now. This means that many more people will have problems with increased electricity prices, and it also turns out to be heating costs. Therefore, SV believes that we should make a permanent mechanism of this kind, which goes into effect when the price level exceeds a certain level. In addition, there is a strong need to strengthen housing support, to increase it, so that more people get and that those who get are covered a greater share of their housing costs. We have proposed to create a baseline for this in 2010. The proportion was then covered by their housing costs, much higher than today, and more were paid. Then the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have agreed that we believe there is a need to investigate how electricity and heating costs should be met in the basis for paying housing support for all groups. Today, this has been spent on pensioners, and that's good, but there's also a need for other groups to be able to put this in, because what we now know from the figures that we've got from the government is how extremely economically difficult they are, the families that are now getting housing support. The proposal also envisages that this should now apply to all groups, regardless of whether the electricity or heating costs are paid through rent or overheads or not included in them. I then take up SV's suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4165	The representative Karin Andersen then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4170	Red has said throughout the pandemic that it is the responsibility of the community to provide ordinary families with poor advice. We have had a period of sky-high power prices, and then the Storting must make sure that people can afford to pay the electricity bill. When it was cold in 2011, the number of collection cases for electricity bills increased by 15 pst, and we have to prevent this happening now. The down payment has just been accepted by Red's proposal to make an additional payment to those receiving housing support. This means that some of the people who have the least of them can get help to pay the electricity bill. That's good. We would go further. We didn't get the majority, but we're going to keep working to ensure justice, so that even more of those who have bad advice, and who are affected by the crisis, can get the help they need. The high electricity prices come not only from cold weather, but also from increased power exports, where power companies make good money to sell the power out, while we, the citizens, pay by getting imports of the European high electricity price in return. Red believes that electricity for lighting, cooking and heating of ordinary dwellings is entirely essential and must be reasonable. That doesn't mean that everyone should be able to use as much power as they want. Those who heat up the cabin say on several hundred square meters, those who have an outdoor bubble bath in winter and heated drive-in to the cabin, can pay a little more for their high consumption. But we can solve this through a differentiated electricity bill for households, where we look at both the electricity charge and the grid rental as well as the electricity price itself. There shall be a low price for those with normal consumption, but electricity for luxury consumption should be more expensive. In this way, we can ensure a more equitable power system that ensures reasonable power to everyone, but not to those who waste the power for unnecessary luxury consumption. Sylvi Listhaug was out in Dagbladet in February and said that the Progress Party would look at measures, such as cutting the electricity charge, subsidising network rental or reducing VAT, to ensure a lower electricity bill. We take the Progress Party to the floor and propose that the government should investigate precisely this. Then we'll see if the Progress Party comes in empty words, or if they do as they say. I'll bring this up on Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4185	The representative Seher Aydar then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4190	When periods of exceptionally high power prices occur, it is particularly important to provide quick and good help to those who need it the most. This year, such a situation occurred in combination with the fact that more people are now unemployed and permitted because of the covid pandemic. This limits the private economy to disadvantaged people, to wage earners and to pensioners. The bumps are strictly need-tested, and most of those now outsourced due to infection protection measures will still have Nav services that are too high to allow support to be available. However, additional support could be a good and targeted measure for those who are most difficult to apply. Since 2013, it has been given over 22 billion. support for housing, and the scheme has improved both for families with children and by keeping pace with price developments. The bush was significantly more targeted in 2017. Before this, it turned out that some people had been paid the housing allowance that they did not have a claim for, and that they then had to pay back. Such repayment claims were reduced from 214 million. SEK in 2016 to SEK 37 million. kr in 2017. It's pretty important that the bumps are targeted to ensure that we get quick help for those who need it the most. In 2021, the government proposed to strengthen the support scheme by an additional 82.4 million. kr, for more than 3 billion. Total kr. During the deliberations of the Financial Committee, to which the Advocate-General also referred, agreement was reached on the strengthening of the budget by 260 million. kr. As the case-speaker also mentions, there is a need to ensure good help and that it is as good as possible. There is also reason to note that the government has already appointed an expert group to review the State support scheme. Among the questions to be considered are precisely about and how changes in power prices can more closely reflect the level of bumps.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4201	We've been through a very cold winter. This includes, among other things: led to an unusually high impact on electricity prices, which has caused major problems for families who are already struggling with a sluggish economy. In addition, the corona pandemic has led to record Norwegians being outsourced or unemployed, which in turn means that the fluctuations we now see in the current price, hit harder and more now than before. The Workers' Party believes that ensuring an additional payment of housing support to cover the increased electricity costs would be an important part of pursuing a fair crisis policy. In 2019, an additional payment of housing aid was proposed to cover increased electricity costs. For this reason, the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party, SV, the Green and Red Environmental Party, supported a proposal to increase the grant of the housing aid by 500 million in the context of the last crisis package. kr to increase the income limit of the housing aid scheme until 1 October 2021 corresponding to the 2020 crisis settlement scheme. That would give you a lot of help with the power calculation. But that proposal therefore chose the government parties to vote down – understand the one that can. Here Stortinget had the opportunity to help more households through a difficult situation, but the government parties did not consider it important enough. It has been known for a long time by the Workers' Party that we believe there should be exceptional housing support for those who are hit hardest when the power prices are extra high. It is important that housing aid and other specific measures are used to help those who are in a difficult economic situation due to fluctuations in electricity prices. Unfortunately, housing aid has been severely weakened as a housing social tool in recent years. There are many fewer people who are receiving housing support, and it covers an increasingly small proportion of the boutes for particularly disadvantaged people. The Coronapandemic has reinforced the unfair economic inequalities in society. In addition, this winter has been extremely cold, so that the heating costs have become very high and impossible to operate for many. Therefore, the government parties should have secured a majority in favour of the proposal to increase the grant of housing aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4212	For the center part, it's quite obvious that when a lot of people wear out, it's important to set things up. We have, as many have been involved, been through a winter in which the power prices have been high, and where we do not know what the development will be like in the future. At least the forecasts suggest that power prices are going to be higher in the future than we have experienced in some of the years before when we had exceptionally low power prices. We're probably in a more normal situation now, as well as having more and greater peaks than before. It has a background in a number of relationships that I'm not going to go into now. What has been the main issue of this matter for the Central Party, when an agreement was reached to make exceptional payments in connection with the last crisis package, has been to look at the injustice inherent in the housing support mechanism for those who need it the most. So there is a difference between how to calculate the heating costs, depending on the type of dwelling you live in, when you need housing support. It's not durable, and we have to look at a system that is permanent, and that takes on the fact that you have to have a mechanism for dealing with high peaks, which is possible by extraordinary appropriations. We also need to look at how to ensure that there is greater equal treatment for those groups that may otherwise be in the same situation of life, but where the only difference is that they live in, rent or owner, different types of housing – that is, whether they have rental conditions, whether they have the heating included in or excluded from the common costs, or whether they own their own housing and still need housing support. It is the proposal that is the majority position of the committee, but I interpret the contribution of the representative Torill Eidsheim in the context that Right does not want to participate in the creation of a system, regardless of the level, which is equal, regardless of the type of dwelling in which you live. I think that's remarkable.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4221	Let me first say that after two weeks ago the Stortinge granted funds for an additional payment to the housing beneficiaries, things have gone very fast. The house bank is doing a good job, and the housing beneficiaries will receive money before Easter. The housing aid scheme has led back to housing after the war and has been adjusted and revised at random intervals. We took some important steps four years ago. New technological opportunities gave us more precise needs testing with on-going up-to-date income data. We also had a price adjustment that would keep pace with the price increase. However, the main features of the scheme have remained constant since 2009. Therefore, the government has set up a very competent group to assess how the scheme works, what is good and where the potential for improvement lies. The housing support is largely automated. The calculation is based on data either well quality-secured in the available registers or documented by the applicants where necessary. Real electricity costs have so far not been practicable. We have been aware several times in recent years of the magnitude of the fluctuations in electricity prices and the possible consequences for the disadvantaged. That is why we have asked the expert group in particular to respond to whether and how changes in electricity prices should affect housing support. I think that's all possible reason to wait for that answer rather than start a parallel investigation of changes that at best can only come into effect a few months before the expert group's report comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4230	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4236	I have read the mandate of the Committee of Experts with interest. It's a little hard to figure out if you're really asked to look at the kind of injustices that lie in the system, namely, that some people are going to cover electricity costs as part of their bolting charges and others are not. The representative Nordlund mentioned someone, but the second is that there are only pensioners who have it. They deserve it, but it may be called in the house to small children's families and lonely even when it is like the winter we now have, and the wallet is empty. Is it, then, to understand that this is a subject that the Council of State believes should be addressed in this group of experts and that the government also sees that this is an injustice it should be cleared up into?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4243	It is explicitly stated in the mandate that they should consider whether electricity costs should be assessed in connection with the housing aid and in what way. So this is explicitly mentioned, and I therefore perceive that it is good within the group's mandate to look at exactly the issue that the representative is going to raise. I trust that they will go into that issue thoroughly, not least in view of the fact that, on several occasions in recent years, extraordinary payments have just been made as a result of electricity prices having been exceptionally high for shorter or longer periods. And there's no doubt that power prices vary a lot. Last year we had record power prices. Almost all summer, there were almost zero prices in Norway, which was extraordinary, and then we've had these last five weeks, from January 1st and beyond, with exceptionally high power prices. This varies a lot, and it's good that the sample should look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4250	I've also seen this sentence, but when I read 'if they should', it can also be interpreted that this might be removed for those who have it today, and that it should not go into it at all. The second thing I want to ask the Council of State is: SV has suggested that you need some kind of permanent mechanism, so that when the electricity prices increase a lot, you can not have these types of rounds in Stortinget to fix it. Does the Council of State see the need for such a mechanism, for the unforeseen large costs for which some people do not have money? It's not just to not fire. You might get dressed and freeze a little bit, but there are pipes that freeze, and there are buildings that get broken, so this is a much bigger case, like, too many when they get in such a situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4257	It is precisely because this is an important issue, that the sample to look at the housing support scheme should also assess it. I trust that they will make an in-depth assessment of it, and I'm not going to shoot now what I'm going to think about the outcome of what they find. But that there's an important issue, there's no doubt about it, so I'm glad the sample should look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4262	So the chord change is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4269	I am also very excited about this sample, but I have noticed that it does not say that you should improve the housing support, explicitly, but should only make assessments. The reason I took the floor is that every time we discuss housing support now, we get this story that the government has strengthened housing support. In this setting, we have demonstrated that this is not correct. Since 2010, we have become 470,000 more people in this country. At that time 155,410 households were given housing support. Today there are 124 250 households. So there's so many fewer people who get housing support now, even though we've become many more. And then we can look at some other parameters that might suggest that this was right. Then it had to be thought that there were many fewer poor people in this country. It's not. There are many more poor people in this country now than it was then. So you could look at how the incomes of those with the smallest incomes have evolved. Well, they've gone down in this period. In other words, they are poorer and need more housing support – especially when we are looking at this against how the boute poisons have evolved in the same period. They've almost exploded. We can also look at the actual nominal appropriations. If we compare them, they're about the same now as 10 years ago. This means, of course, that the housing stock is severely weakened. We have also set up these calculations – after a letter from the Council of State – which shows that even if the housing aid has increased in dollars and cents for each household, the income has been reduced and the budget fees increased, so that you are left with a real loss. If you get fewer kroner in housing support, you have less income and higher housing costs, it's not an improvement on housing support. It's a weakening of the housing support, and it's in a situation where the differences are increasing, and where the boute poisons are eating holes in the wallet of people, and especially to the poorest families. Housing is at the heart of all social policies. The dwelling is a home, and we have to take it more seriously in this room. We need to strengthen the housing support strongly in the future. Many other changes are also needed in housing policy, so that it becomes more social and people get more freedom and more choice. But the housing support is not strengthened, it is weakened under this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4284	When the representative, Andersen, invites to a broader debate on housing support, I feel it is right that I say a few words about it. When less housing is provided, as the representative points out, this is due to a severe reduction in the payment of errors. There are fewer applicants, and many candidate groups have higher real income. Apart from a tightening of net worth in 2015, this government has never cut the housing stock. On the contrary, the government has been strengthening housing support for several years. The Bout poison lake has increased every year, and especially for families with children and other large households. The minimum amount paid is reduced from NOK 352 to NOK 50. The income of children has been removed from the income base. New pricing adjustment practices ensure that the aid keeps pace with the price increase. The housing aid has become more targeted by calculating it on the basis of up-to-date income figures. The possibility of receiving housing support has been improved for residents in the book-collective sector. The conversion to a new income base has made housing aid more targeted and reduced error payments from 2017. This means that far fewer people than before get housing support they should not have. Fewer have applied for housing support in recent years, including: due to increased employment. I hope we can agree on that is a good thing. The annual adjustment of the basic amount of population benefit, G, means that disabled persons and other insured persons are actually receiving better income. Under the red-green government, housing aid became an increasingly smaller proportion of the beneficiaries' housing costs. From 2014 to 2018, the proportion was fairly stable. With the improvements in 2019, the proportion increased. The pre-reform in 2015 resulted in an increase in gross income for miscarriage. This could mean reduced housing. The government has provided a compensation mechanism after the default reform, which ensures those who were disabled and received housing support before the reform. Those who have been disabled after the reform receive housing support under the same conditions as employees. Let me also send a small visit to the representative from Red. She said in her post that the reason for the high electricity prices is that we have exchange capacity with the rest of the world, i.e. cables for exports and imports of electricity. My claim is that we should be very happy that we have exchanges with our neighboring country. The alternative could result in a significantly higher electricity bill in Norway, possibly a significant overcapacity, for which consumers would also have had to pay in some form. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4297	I'm not done with this, and I'm not going to give in until the housing support gets better than it is now. Yes, it has become more focused. It is so focused now that in the last budget the government did not tell what an average household income was for those who received housing support. But last year they did. Then the average household income was NOK 130 000. So little did they earn the families. And what did they have in housing expenses? It stood in the same position – NOK 92 000 per year. It's pretty far away from what we're living with in this room. I also have figures that show that in 2011 the proportion of housing beneficiaries with housing costs was above the ceiling of 51.7 p.m. In 2019 it was 74.7 pst. that had higher living costs than they were expected to have in the plan. There are several who are poor, but the limit of getting housing support now is so low that very many have given up. It's very serious. For SV, it is a core value that we should distribute more fairly and ensure that those who have poor advice will live safely. If there's something we know about people with bad advice, and especially families with children, it's that they often move. It's horrifying for kids who never get footholds — not in school, kindergarten, neighborhood, or friends. This goes all the way to the core of what we're discussing. The issue today is electricity costs. Then it's like these families don't get to cover their electricity costs. They don't even get to count them into their living expenses today. The pensioners get it, and I'm very happy about it. But we have to get it in, because this is completely elementary expenditure a family has to afford. This is one of the really important, important tasks that the state needs to take on greater responsibility for the future – no less responsibility. I know the council knows that 3 billion. SEK in 2011 and 3 billion. kr in 2021 does not have the same value either in the State budget or in the private economy of those receiving housing aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4312	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4329	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4336	This case concerns an SV representative proposal on the establishment of an expert committee to investigate the possible lasting consequences of the pandemic on travel habits and traffic forecasts in the transport sector. I would like to thank the Committee for its constructive cooperation. The Korona epidemic has resulted in the most invasive measures Norway has had in peacetime. The anti-infectious measures affect the daily lives of all citizens of the country. The transport sector is also heavily affected. It is crucial for the transport sector whether the pandemic will bring about lasting behavioural changes and changes in transport demand. It is the permanent changes that are important when drawing up a national transport plan for the period 2022 to 2033 and which form the basis for large infrastructure investments. NTP must take account of this uncertainty. Several research results are beginning to give us answers on the possible duration of the consequences. Several surveys have been carried out by the Transport Economic Institute to examine the changes in working and travelling habits and whether there is reason to expect the changes to be permanent. Responses from the studies suggest that there is a significant potential for reducing the volume of work travel and for a more even distribution of work travel over the day. Activities shall, on the basis of a response from the Council of State, be under way during the planning period to assess the order, scale and progress of projects in the light of changing assumptions. An expert sample will have limited time if the response is to be provided Stortinget in time for the treatment of NTP, and the sample had to make use of the same statistics and the same early research as that already available to the Ministry of Transport. It is important to note that, in its response to the Committee, the Council of State emphasises the need to facilitate the implementation of investments in national transport plans that allow for an increase in uncertainty, which in turn leads to innovation in planning and the need to meet the transport needs of the population in a cost-effective and climate-friendly manner. In the big cities, there is a lot of money to invest in infrastructure that is used only in the rush time for a few hours a day. It has to be a goal that these peaks are flattened out, which also had saved society too much money. This can also be reinforced in the future if the use of home offices, flexible working hours and digital meetings becomes more common than before. It must be an objective that collective solutions, especially trains, facilitate travel time to be part of working time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4355	We have already received many leaks from the submission of the national transport plan due on 19 March. Many thus indicate that the government has completed the plan, and that the transport priorities for the next few years have already been laid down. Nevertheless, I have to say that SV in this representative proposal points to something important. Our travel habits will have changed as a result of the pandemic in which we stand. We can imagine that we have become significantly more digitised, and thus for the future we will have fewer work and seminar trips. We can imagine that in the future, too, we will have increased use of home offices, and that this can reduce drug traffic. We can also imagine that freight transport should be given even greater priority and that the way we think about it changes. During this ageing period, we have heard more people call for too little research to be done in the field of transport, and that this should be significantly lifted, as has been done in the health sector, for example. Equal opportunities across the country require equal access to broadband and mobile coverage. We also need security for stability in the network, and we need solutions that work for everyone. Norway's geography and commodity-based value creation and housing patterns make us even more dependent on air transport than many other countries. Aviation is of critical importance for the export industry and travel and plays an important role in the business world. Aviation also represents significant employment as an industry, in the form of both direct and indirect employment, a total of about 60,000 persons in Norway. That's what we're looking at around the Gardermo. Ullesaks has 8.5 pst. unemployed or on leave. It's still too early to know what are the long-term consequences of the coronary apathy, even though more research results are now beginning to answer some of this. The working party expects that the forthcoming national transport plan will devote more resources to research and action to strengthen our commodity-based value creation and housing patterns.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4366	First of all, I think the proposers here are raising a very important discussion, namely how this pandemic will affect us – both in the short-term perspective in which we stand at the heart, and not least in the long-term perspective. Can we see any lasting behavioral changes because of the pandemic that we're now going through? The short-term effect is completely obvious. We have lived with it for a year now, and we see that it has a great impact on aviation, on public transport, and it can have an impact on car use. We change our habits, in the sense that we use digital solutions more widely, and more work from home. The question is whether this is a situation that will persist, and much indicates that at least the use of home offices, for those who have occasion to do so, will become more widespread. The use of digital solutions will allow us to work in completely different ways than before. So there's a very good reason to think that this can have a certain lasting effect on our travel pattern and our behavior. However, when we do not support the proposal, it is because there is too little time up against the national transport plan that an expert committee should be able to provide something in particular different from what we already have from the information available in the work on the national transport plan. So we don't see that as an appropriate approximation. On the other hand, we see that there is every reason to continue this discussion and look at how we can try to form a better picture of how this will affect our transport infrastructure, the need for investment, the way we want to move, and the mobility in the future. It's a work that I think is important, and that we need to have a perspective now in retrospect, when things start to normalize. Then we have to look at the changes in society and start using that knowledge for what it's worth. In the context of the national transport plan, it is now also important to take account of the uncertainty it has created, and to establish sufficient flexibility in the design of the infrastructure, so that we have the opportunity to adapt within the 12-year period to be covered by the national transport plan. So we're not going to go along with the proposals, because we believe that an expert committee is now not very appropriate – it won't be able to provide us with any further information. But I would like to welcome this discussion in the time to come, because I think this will be an important discussion that will also affect how we plan both infrastructure and other.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4379	Although SV is one of the parties that stands far from the Progress Party, and one of the parties that we absolutely disagree with most, I have to say I think it's great to have such nice and competent bang-red colleagues as Arne Nävra. It is almost impressive to see where the «good» Nävra and his colleagues are to camouflage and wrap political measures and ambitions into a beautiful silky paper, so that the hidden agenda does not shine through so well. But we in the Progress Party are not fooled by SV, no matter how good they are to try to camouflage their political ambitions. There is no doubt that SV here has a strong desire to try to confirm that there is a smaller need to drive a car and therefore less need to build roads, especially a smaller need to build four-field motorways, roads on which we in the Progress Party are very happy to drive, and on which those who are happy to drive a car, who have to drive a car, and need to drive a car, of course are also very happy to drive. They arrive quickly at their destination, preferably at least 110 km/h. Although the wording of the proposal sounds harmless, namely the establishment of an ‘expert selection to determine the possible long-term effects of the pandemic on travel habits and other transport of importance for Norwegian transport planning’, the intention of the proposal is not harmless. We in the Progress Party interpret this as an attempt to confirm that because we travel less, that fewer people drive cars to work because of home offices and digital meetings, there is less need to build roads. But there is a complete disagreement between the Progress Party and SV. The point of progress is crystal clear that of course there is a great need to continue building the country with safe and secure four-field motorways. There is a need to link cities, parts of the country and the whole country with a coherent network of motorways, as all other countries in Western Europe and the United States have already done, as do more and more countries in Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia. We build roads not only for commuters, but also for business, for the transport industry and not least for travel. One thing is that it is possible to have work meetings online, but it will not be the same holiday experience to take the ski holiday to Trysil on Teams. It is also not possible to send food and other goods over the web. It must still be possible to transport goods and people by plane, train, boat or car on safe, good and safe roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4394	This is a rather strange situation. It therefore appears that no other party in the Transport Committee wishes to know more about the effects of the pandemic on the transport sector. Is that possible? Yeah, the setting tells us. An expert committee composed of our best research environments in the field would give us much more knowledge of what action we should take in the transport sector in the future. We manage billions in the transport committee. Knowledge is power, is said. Yes, but the majority here don't want this power. Do you want to continue as before after the pandemic? That's a strange attitude. I thought in my naivety that this proposal could all parties gather around. I thought so. TØI and many others have provided the first figures on changes in travel habits and possible long-term effects of the pandemic. A total of six surveys have been carried out. The Urban Analysis has investigated it, and the NHO has done so. What is currently the conclusion is quite logical, but important: the Home Office has been discovered in some ways. The technical solutions have been discovered. New work places have been discovered – not least for those who do not like open work landscapes at work. The last study for TØI shows that 46 pst. of those who are able to do so will have home offices 1 to 2 days a week after the coronary apathy. Before the corona, it was only 19 pst. The NHO has said that about half of the member companies will add up to more flexible job solutions with home offices after the corona. This will have a clear impact on transport planning. The report of the Urban Analysis shows that in the long term, public transport can lose between 13 and 17 pst. by the passengers, I say by contacting the representative Johnsen, as a result of changed travel habits and weakened areas of competition for public transport. So we're not just talking about motorways. It can also have clear implications for road traffic forecasts. Don't you want to know about the road solutions we choose? Do we now need a third runway on the Gardermo? Other aerodrome expansions? I'm just asking. It has been focused on the time perspective of SV's proposals. The representative of the place mentioned it, and others mentioned it, that we can't get results until NTP is treated. Now ignore it! That is not the main point of this proposal. The main point is that the expert committee will deliver a final report at the turn of the year 2021-2022. That's what matters. Why in the world can't the representatives support it? I don't understand. No, you don't want knowledge. You do like the world's largest bird, which can't fly, but, on the other hand, you push it far down into the sand. I take this with me my sheets and take up SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4419	Then the representative Arne Nävra mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4424	The left is very pleased that many of the collective services are maintained. We have made it clear that the traffic base and the number of passengers are not there for the bus and the train to go so often, and even on some of the planes with which I am flying, there are quite a few passengers. So it's clear that today's need is not related to the amount of transportation that is actually offered, but that's because we hope that we will soon get out of this situation. We clearly need more transport on the day we get to normal conditions. So SV is already trying to say that they know what's really needed – or that there's an expert group that's needed – maybe several months before we're done with this pandemic. I don't think that's the right time to put down such an expert selection. I think it's much better now to wait for this to develop, and not least what it's like when we analyze people's needs. Because it's still going to be school from 7 p.m. 8 to 15, and the nursery will be open. If we're going to turn the whole community around so that there won't be any problems in rush traffic, that there won't be any distortion of the number of passengers in the morning and evening compared to the middle of the day and at night, then the whole community will have to be transformed. We may not be interested in that. So here are many questions that need to be answered, and not just in terms of analysis of transport needs. In fact, I don't think there are any experts who are able to answer, simply, they can't answer the challenges that SV is now proposing that we set up an expert committee to solve – an expert committee that is already going to give us some clues about NTP, and later, at the next year's turn of the year, if, for example. 2025, 2030 and beyond. We had a selection of experts who delivered their report two years ago, and they took this up with stress testing. I think we need to stress and test even more and actually be even more vigilant for changes. Because yes, changes are, but we don't know how.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4435	It has already been said from this speaker, but there are very important issues that proposers raise with this proposal. We know that the measures taken by the government have led to considerable consequences, and the transport sector is one of the hardest sectors. It's a very dramatic situation in aviation, but also for public travellers. Because of the decline in mobility, we are making changes. It is a very central issue for the transport sector in general, and for national transport plans in particular, whether we go back to what was normal before. What we see now is short-term changes, and we also expect that the consequences for the transport sector and the segments within it will be there for a longer time – and we also expect lasting changes. It is of particular importance for infrastructure investment in the future, and I share the wish of the representatives that NTP should take the height of this uncertainty. Then I want to point to something. We're just saying that uncertain heights should be taken for, in NTP. Firstly, we propose optimisation and portfolio management, and that is precisely in order to deal with uncertainty, innovation and innovation, but also with the kind of uncertainty that this proposal points out. Secondly, NTP is also a big message. It is not the case that we decide on projects in the national transport plan. They come to this hall individually, and we decide on the specific projects. This is a plan, so we need to have a portfolio management in both the first and second parts of NTP. I also believe what is pointed out here, that we also need more research in this sector, is important – because the renewal, the rate of change, is so great. We should also point that towards NTP. I thought the case spokesperson did very well because we do not agree with the proposal. But I am concerned that this issue should also be there in the treatment of NTP, and it is important that we ask questions about those projects, about how we see developments in the light of the pandemic. But that experts here in a short time will be able to give the big and clear answers, I don't think. But it is important for me to signal that the ministry will be available with its professional expertise, just for different assessments during the treatment of NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4448	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4454	One of the first documents relating to the work of the National Transport Plan was Technology for Sustainable Mobility and Mobility, a report from the Expert Committee on Technology and Transport Infrastructure. There is an incredible amount of excitement in that report, and it has also been at the hearing. One can see that there were ambitions to change the mindset within the national transport plan. So the question to the Council of State is, what is the most important knowledge we learned from the expert committee, which can affect the national transport plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4459	I thought it was a very good work done there. This is a professional expert looking at change. I think one of the things we have to think about is: What is climate-friendly and environmentally friendly into the future? Yes, we have some perceptions, and fortunately, the railway will also be climate-friendly and environmentally friendly in the future, but we see that we can have changes within the infrastructure that will give us other opportunities. I have ambitions, among other things. for aviation, which is now very hard frame due to the pandemic, but we know that the short-range network that we have in Norway can be quite optimal for the development of electric aircraft, for the development of much more environmentally friendly aeroplanes. We see that Europe is looking at Norway. EASA points to their cooperation with both the Air Safety Authority and Avinor when they look at opportunities in that sector. There was also something about the selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4464	Norway is a large and diverse country, including in terms of infrastructure. To a large extent, it consists of roads that are not quadrupled. Racial roads and roads that lack yellow stripe need repair. I think almost you can say it's independent of what this pandemic will lead to from after-dunctions. On these roads there is a clear need for improvements. Does the Council of State think it makes sense now to give priority to these sections that we know need investment, and that are not affected by any change in patterns of behaviour or travel, or what we are now going to call it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4469	It's a good question, and there's no doubt that the many roads we have, where we see that walking is a big danger, I feel that there is a broad political desire to give priority. So the paradox is that even when it goes, it's a development. The changes that are related to climate mean that some ways we for some decades back were not thought to be out of date, in fact it is today. So we also know that new technology can give us opportunities in connection with pace. We know that in Troms County they have a project where they're looking at whether new technology can give us a warning that we can do other measures that are far more reasonable, but that have the same certainty for the future. There are exciting opportunities that innovation and technology give us here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4474	I thank you for the answer, and I thank you for seeing this as an opportunity room. Although the NTP has not yet been presented, there is talk of reduced ambitions, but it will still be used enormously with money on transportation in the next few years. With a lot of unemployment and more uncertainty about the economic prospects in the country, it may be a common goal that money used to invest in infrastructure, especially at an early stage, contributes to local, regional and national ring-effects, not least in view of the people who need jobs. This means more jobs and increased employment in Norway. Will the Council of State take some action to ensure that as much investment as possible in future NTPs, especially during the first period, contributes to more jobs with Norwegian professionals in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4479	Fortunately, we are now in a situation where we build a lot of infrastructure, and we see that Norwegian entrepreneurs are doing very well in that competition. When a colleague of the Permanentraune representative was Minister of Transport in 2012–2013, she took the initiative to bring foreign entrepreneurs into the market. Today we have a good situation, where we see that Norwegian entrepreneurs are doing very well. It helps create Norwegian jobs in Norway, but we also have, and I think that I am positive, of course, some foreign entrepreneurs who characterise the market. Then it's enough for us to come back to the NTP when he's presented, but it's important for me to say that there's historical investment in infrastructure in Norway. We have ambitions about it also in the future, and when we compare Norway now with other countries in Europe, we see that Norway is one of the countries that really invests in infrastructure, and that is an investment for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4486	We are already seeing some signs that in ongoing projects that have foreign entrepreneurs – and I agree with the Council of State that this is an important part of Norwegian working life – because of the pandemic and perhaps also in the future because of the effects the pandemic will have outside Norway, i.e. in other countries, we are struggling to keep time on the projects and to stay within budgets because people do not respond because of these restrictions. Then I ask the question again: isn't this the moment that we're now in a year or two really turning around and saying that we're taking what we know is certain, we're taking projects that are a little bit smaller in scope, and as we know fit the Norwegian market, as part of the corona package, call it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4491	I experience good dialogue with the entrepreneurial market in Norway, where we, for example. discusses the size of the projects. If we go back ten years, the message from Norwegian entrepreneurs was that they wanted larger projects. Now they thought it might have gone a little too far. Now they point out that maybe we should have a little smaller projects and that large projects are shared. I think this might be a good dialogue with that market to ensure that we create Norwegian jobs. But it won't be a goal that only Norwegian entrepreneurs should be. I believe the balance we have today is good, and in 2019, which is the last year we have figures from, was the Norwegian entrepreneur who had 19 out of 21 large projects. We just want to create jobs, and I also believe that when we are presented with a national transport plan, we can jointly facilitate it. Finally, I would say that it is quite impressive that the progress in the project is so good even under a pandemic. I'm impressed about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4496	I referred to several reports that have been initiated by the public authorities and the research institutions in terms of attitudes towards new travel habits and job situations. TØI has had to go on a kind of beggar's path to countless institutions to get a boost to its research – a crucial research, I would call it – on how to prioritise our billions in the future. One would think that it was of great value to a government council, a department and a government to get such results. My question to the Council of State is: Has the Council of State and the Ministry commissioned some research institutions to research in this field we are talking about here, as a basis for the important priorities of the NTP? Has the Council commissioned research in this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4503	During the NTP process, we have given a lot of assignments, and there is running research associated with this work. I agree with the representative Nävra points out, there are now exciting numbers through that work. He called TØI; I could have named Urban Analysis, exactly the same thing, that points to that while 7 pst. said they wanted the home office two days a week before the coronary apathy, it's now 12 pst. That says the same thing. Before the pandemic, it was 14 pst. which said at least one day a week; now says 30 pst. That's it. It's clear that this is going to have meaning. I think that concluding this overall towards NTP would be difficult anyway, but we should do what we can to get more information. We know that there have to be relatively small changes to it, for example. in urban waste traffic, where 5 pst. up and down are of great importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4510	I thank you for that answer, but I guess I did not get a complete answer. The first question was whether the Council of State has commissioned research communities. I doubt that the assignment is given; I think they have started on their own. That's the one question. The second question is whether the Council of State does not see, and so it is later that the majority of people do not see that I am not talking about us concluding today – it was just supposed to initiate an expert committee to make conclusions at the turn of the year. That is, they might have new data in November, and then the research results come at the turn of the year. I believe that the assumption has changed quite significantly until November, and that it will then be possible to make new conclusions about people's travel habits and working habits. First of all, have initiatives been taken and mandated by the Council of State to the research communities in this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4516	I look forward to the cooperation we will have on the national transport plan. One of the things I think is important, is to increase research within this sector. So let's do that. Then, of course, we have asked for a considerable amount of work, and it has also been a running work devoted to NTP. But I want to say that the most important work done here is done by the professionals in our agencies. I also think we need to evaluate the different projects against this situation. That's why I think the whole thing about this NTP is so important. I feel that there is quite a broad political consensus that it is a portfolio thinking. This means that we will have the opportunity to make changes in the light of changes in the situation, in the light of whether the projects improve, and it will be assessed against just use, up to new knowledge, and it will have to be assessed continuously.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4523	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4530	I want to start from the posts of the representative Jon Gunnes. I don't think I've heard anything so unparalleled, so get curious questions and such a blatant conclusion that we're not going to be able to deal with anything else – such an attitude. It was almost a little shocking. I know Gunnes as a representative who is eager to know. With its background as an engineer well based the representative on knowledge, I believe, and then the representative says that we can't count on getting any new knowledge from the research environments! Is it possible to hear something like that from this pulpit from an engineer? This was a strange post, which was heard by me. So there's a point here, and it's that we have to use this opportunity to get a shift in our travel habits, to kind of sementate that we can use the home office more. Naomi Klein says, "We can't go back to what it used to be like." Maybe not everyone knows Naomi Klein, but for those who know her, there's an important voice in the climate debate, among other things. Now we have an opportunity room to change something. We must grasp that – the Minister for Climate and Environment is sitting in the Chamber, the Minister for Transport is sitting in the Chamber. It's right now, in such a situation, after the pandemic, that we have to seize the possibility of climate and environment as well. We're going to have to pay tribute to the situation in a lot of ways. It's not only negative that people have discovered the possibilities of the home office. Thus I think it was a little passive attitude I heard from the majority in the Chamber, also from the Council of State who has expressed itself, to be able to seize the opportunity that lies in a shift for our travel habits and make it a positive thing, in the sense that one can think about the environment and the climate. In California, one of the states has apparently ordered 60 pst. by workers to have a home office. We know that California is a preconceived state that thinks about the environment, and thinks about the climate. Isn't that the kind of idea we're about to start thinking, that we're taking advantage of the positive side of the coronary epidemic? It's hard to find them in the situation that we're in now, but there's actually someone in the field of transportation and in the environment. Then I have actually mentioned it as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4545	I've probably expressed myself very clumsy in the post I had when Arne Nävra realized that I'm opposed to both research and experts. I'm not at all. The Committee had a meeting today with TØI and SINTEF in the transport sector, which was very interesting, forward-looking in terms of price systems and electric car pricing, and also in terms of which energy carriers we can see in the future that we are moving around this country. It is such expert groups that are getting the traffic further in the future. That is why I mention this expert group from 2019, which delivered an exciting report. But that's not all that says, they had e.g. I did not see that there could be so much use of the home office. And my claim is still that we don't know if that's what's going to be the big butcher, to say it like that, in the future, in the world of work, if that's what's going on. That's right now, but that's because we've imposed it on ourselves. That's why I think it's exciting to wait for something in terms of the pandemic, where we're in a very stressful situation. We don't know how to deal with it after the pandemic is over. I'm really just asking that we take it a little bit calm, a few months, and then we go in – and plan from the observations and the results we get from these studies – at some later stage. I think it's a good idea, because then we'll get the right answers and we'll be able to build on them in terms of how we get it in the future. I think, for example, that the number of flight journeys will be lower in the future, I hope so too, because the digital meeting solutions are actually tested now, and a lot of it is successful. But sometimes, of course, you have to travel to be taken in business as well, and I think people are looking for both holidays and experiences, so that category travels I don't think goes down that much. Then there can clearly be other forms of conversion as well, and I think Bengt Fasteraune has a very good point in his question to the Council of State in the change of lines about which areas we should bet on in the situation we are in now, for example. maintenance and yellow middle stripe.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4554	I really forgot to say – at the outset as the rapporteur – that, like the representative from the place, I am very pleased that this matter was promoted now in advance of the NTP procedure. I have also asked some questions to the Council of State about the same issues before this matter was raised. I believe that in view of what emerges from the debate here, although there are some shades of where to acquire knowledge, whether there is an expert committee working on blasts for two to three months, or whether there is something else, I am reasonably sure that the committee wants to get the most knowledge on the table, as we do, among other things. at a part of the Committee meetings today. It is said that portfolio management needs to be done, and there are some grips and leaks that there are different political views. But I am reasonably sure that no matter what management you have in relation to specific projects, there is actually something that needs to be put ahead of something else. And there has to be an assessment in time and space. That's what the whole NTP is actually about. It is clear that when we are in a situation in Norway today where we have had great challenges to be close to meeting the NTP for various reasons – it may be politicians who are overconfident after putting as much into the bag as possible, strutting in time and tightening the screw for the money – there are also concrete things that have happened along the way in this process. I sincerely hope that this debate has raised a number of issues that both the Council of State and we in the Committee can take with us when we are going to continue working on it. In fact, I think what can quickly become reality is that you go into it and give a solid priority to what's a little bit of a safe. Maybe it's the highway that's been missing the yellow strip for 10–15–20 years, no matter what kind of technology we have. They're the ones who live in an area where they're still exposed to race. That's the way up in the Østerdalen – I sat and listened to the representative Sandtrøen here – that absolutely needs the repairs to be done. I think it might be even more important than that we're going to put on an even more quadruple highway. I actually think there's a lot of such projects a lot of this could result in being prioritised. I hope that's included as part of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4563	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4580	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4587	First, I want to start by thanking the Stortinge's most sympathetic, committed and competent committee for exceptionally good cooperation in the matter. Then we're back and have another debate about predators. I am very pleased that at least most of us in this Chamber agree on the two-part objective we have in predatory animal policy, but it is difficult to manage, and we must recognise that this is one of the most difficult policy areas to balance. We're going to use the predator agreement, and the targets have become a little bit of our sacred grail, but for some of the big predators we're over, and for others we're under. We have to be honest with that, and we have to tackle it – both ways. That doesn't mean that we don't always have to look for solutions that unite and reconcile. It makes us better equipped to tackle the challenges that lie in this field, and actually can cope with the difficult balance we've imposed on ourselves. This winter I have worked extra hard on this field. I have received a number of recordings from both hunters and farmers, conservationists and very common people who live and live with predators. The opinions are about as diverse as the recordings, but it's been a very instructive winter. I've seen how the Yurven take over new areas in the West, how the eagle behaves in Trondelag, and next week there'll be another trip out in the field in the wolf zone in Hedmark. I have also received during the winter, probably because I took the initiative, a very large pile of letters with suggestions on how we can make predatory policy less conflict-oriented, and there have been very many good proposals for solutions. There have been some angry letters also, from both sides, but many good suggestions, and I will try to incorporate this into the field in the future. It is important that we have an effective harmful trap for large predators. Together with a well-functioning predatory management that follows the leaders of the Storting and, of course, the Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention, we must take care of the two-part objective, that is, both for grazing and for predatory game. It's positive that the number of sheep and lambs in the outback has remained fairly stable, at about 2 million, while the number of losses has fallen dramatically. The loss figures for bears have also decreased, but the same applies, for example. not for tamrein, where the loss figures have remained stable, unfortunately. We shoot approx. 200 large predators a year in Norway, but I see that some concepts are mixed up in exactly that debate, and it is important to distinguish between licensing and damages. The size has been clear that the license and quota traps carried out by ordinary hunters are the main instrument. Injury is about taking out individuals who do harm. The management of predators shall be based on both scientific and experience-based knowledge. It is not an easy task and must not be taken lightly, especially for the large predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4604	Injury is about taking out individuals who do harm. That is the main theme of this proposal for a representative. Part of the proposal and the main theme addressed are based on the experience of a damage-reduction project in the North East and Engerdal region. There a very good and thorough work has been done. Those who have been involved in the project also say that cooperation with the government manager has been very positive in this work regionally. It is good to see that there can be good and professionally well-founded discussions, starting from such a thorough and well-documented work that has been done regionally. We have to remember the back carpet here. In Nord-Osterdal, we have suffered a major loss of livestock, which makes food production very demanding, and many grazing users are unsure whether they want to continue, or whether it is possible at all. But this project has been a hot spot. And on behalf of the Labour Party, I would like to say that we are going to vote in favour of the proposals No. One, two, three. They're just about getting more suitable tools to make the killing of predators more effective and consistent, and that the experiences from the North East and Engerdal are being transferred, both the methods used and the experience with which the damage collection teams have had great success, and that have also saved the state for very many dollars. I think the Council of State here might have a good case, because the rapporteur was trying to reconcile different aspects. No matter what population you really want for predatory game, I think everyone can agree that once there are pests, they should be removed effectively once authorisation for killing has been granted. There I think the Council of State should really incorporate all the methods and experience that have been made in the knowledge and course structure that is to be established permanently. In proposal No 2 there is also a great deal of knowledge and experience in the use of dogs in various parts of the harm-reduction system, which also has to be part of this assessment and the larger case that Stortinget has to deal with. In addition, it is also important to say that proposal No. 6 must be covered as part of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox With this I have explained the views of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4617	As the rapporteur was in, we have regular discussions on the Stortinget on predatory game management. Unfortunately, it has proved necessary, as one has not succeeded in a management that mitigates the conflicts or works in such a way that the parties concerned can settle down on the legislation and have the necessary confidence in it. We have wide-ranging agreements in predatory game policy, most of which have joined the two-part objective of caring for both predators and grazing. We have a goal of contributing to sustainable predatory populations while also having a sustainable grazing industry in the field. Unfortunately, policies and governance do not always match in practice. The grazing right in the field today is threatened by large predator losses. The grazing industry is important for Norway, and we use a lot of resources to maintain it. Norway is not a land-based food production paradise. Ecstasy and grazing animals are essential for the maintenance of food production in Norway. Pasturage is good use of resources. And if we want to increase the level of self-sufficiency, we have to exploit our land areas even better. Having animals on pasture is good animal welfare, it is good use of natural resources, and in addition it is important to keep the cultural landscape open. Aquatic animals also contribute to the maintenance of biodiversity in nature. The problem of predatory game is a challenge to this situation. Today, the bulk of the population gave the grazing industry the confidence it now needs to fill the toolbox for an effective damaging trap in order to quickly take out pests. Unfortunately, this option does not allow the majority of the population to benefit from it. While it is positive that the entire Committee agrees with the need for an effective harmful trap, it is disappointing that one does not wish to introduce measures that could make it possible. Harm trapping is only an instrument to be used in acute damage situations. The proposal under consideration today is measures that could alleviate the situation for more effective hunting. Using dogs is one of the measures that could make harm-reduction much more effective, given large savings in costs, working hours and a much more humane pursuit. With that, I will deal with the proposals of the Progress Party, together with the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4632	Then the representative Terje Halleland has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4637	The reason why the Central Party has promoted this proposal is that the predatory policy that has now been pursued for eight years has failed in a number of key areas. Farmers also experience that predatory game now has herds in pasture-priority areas, which are in contradiction with the two-part objective of predatory animal policy, which has been discussed here by many, because here it is said that predators should not be in pasture-priority areas. There are currently particularly serious problems related to the population of bears in areas where there is active outreach activity. The 2004 and 2011 big game settlement is based on a two-fold objective. It shall ensure sustainable populations of the major predatory species while facilitating the continued active and versatile use of land resources and ensuring living communities. The last part implies the need to pursue a predatory policy that reduces predatory damage, which mitigates conflicts and discourages insecurity for those most affected. I don't take a hard time when it comes to the last thing -- that's exactly the opposite that's happening today. Harm traps shall ensure that predators causing grazing are removed quickly, avoiding animal diseases and avoiding severe mental stress for grazing users. Effective damaging traps are also a central tool to ensure the foreseeable conditions for the grazing industry. I want to take an example from my own home country, Troms. Three years in a row, a bear has herded in the same area of Bardu and killed nearly 300 sheep. It's in a grazing priority area. The municipality has applied for a claim form every year, but received a refusal on grounds which do not at all meet its objectives. As I said, this is a grazing priority area where it shouldn't be a bear. It is quite incomprehensible to me that the department has not done anything about this matter. As a result, the young farmer in Bardu is now shutting down — because of the government’s predatory policy. Unfortunately, we have too many examples today of the ongoing training of predatory policies, and it does not appear that the Council of State or the Government will facilitate more effective methods of harvesting predators. That is precisely why the Central Party sees the need to promote another proposal in the Stortinget that would have been controlled by predatory policies. So I have to say that I see with a little wonder and a little joy in the setting today that both the Green Party and SV are on three of the proposals. I think it may be a mistake, but it is possible that today's birthday child Lars Haltbrecken has become a little wiser in his older days. I want to congratulate Lars Haltbrecken on the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4652	I take the floor first of all – I kept saying – to reassure the representative Sandra Borch with an explanation of vote. We are going to draw the support for proposal No. 1 to 3. Can a man call it a work accident? No, there was no work accident, it was tempting to support the three proposals. We have examined the three proposals in more detail. Special Proposal No. 3 should be taken into account – and I especially look at the Workers' Party representative in the Chamber – where they mix the cards slightly with damages and licensing. It's kind of scary. I ask the Labour Party to think about that again while there is yet time. If I am in a position to advise the Center Party on anything, I would advise them that they might promote such an animal proposal – well thought out, preferably in contact with other parties – about that. Once a year instead of every fourteen days, it may have happened that we had seen a little more seriously on the proposals of the Center Party. What I also notice, as I also think is a little bit gross, is that two parties in each of their blocks find each other more often and more often on environmental issues. It's the Progress Party and the Center Party. And it's a little bit sad that the Workers' Party is also limping on some of these questions. I can say that, as a good member of one of the blocks, and I'm sorry. I see certain similarities to another thing, which I'm not going to go very far into, because it can be dangerous. However, when a wolf crosses the border and enters Norway, there are certain similarities to the question of immigrants, because there may be little to know about this immigrant to some areas. Little knowledge creates fear. I have learned in my long life that fear is inversely proportional to knowledge – when one adds a ruler from Sweden and westwards, for example. That is quite significant. I have a chronicle lying on the table about it. I just want to say that we're subtracting the proposals. 1–3, as assessed, and then it is well documented.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4669	I would also like to take up the perspective of the new Green Block and state that the Greens will also vote against the proposals. 1, 2 and 3 in this case, although we are listed in the motions for resolutions because of a mistake on our part in committee. The Green Party has programmed that we will ensure viable populations of all predators and predators belonging in Norwegian nature. It is a point of view that we stand together in the party, both those of us who do not cultivate the land, those of us who cultivate the land, those of us who keep livestock in the fields, and those of us who keep livestock in the fields. There are many backgrounds you can have, and at the same time have a love for nature, on which we all depend to survive. In an incubation, we have seen that the proposals would lead primarily to the sharing of knowledge that could limit the use of problematic hunting methods that could be harmful to wild animals in the area in which they are hunted. Afterwards, we see that the proposals are likely to increase — and spread — the use of such hunting methods, and we in the Greens are, of course, opposed to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4678	I'm very busy that we're going to have a well-functioning management of predatory game, in accordance with the Berne Convention, the natural disaster laws and the leaderships that follow from different decisions and settlements in the Storting. As part of this, the government has worked a lot to develop the different folding regimes so that folding can take place as effectively as possible. We've changed legislation, strengthened counsellors, strengthened the staffing of the State's natural supervision – I'm getting closer to it. But I still want to say that through this proposal, one more will draw a rather unsound image of a government that is apparently not working. I don't agree with that. Yes, there is still too much loss of grazing animals in some areas, and of course there is always a lot we can be better at, but the policy of both licensing and harm-reduction, which is the main theme here, works mainly well and efficiently. Perhaps the most measurable is the number of grazing animals that are replaced annually as lost to predatory game. The number of sheep replaced by predatory game has been halved for the last ten years, and it has happened at the same time as the number of sheep released on the pasturebed has been stable. The causes of loss have been so much reduced, but two of the reasons are prevention measures and effective withdrawals of just harmful animals. Special attention will be paid to bear in the proposal for a representative. Here, too, I think that a slightly distorted picture of the situation is being drawn. In spite of the fact that the population is much smaller than the stock target set by the Stortinget, breeding is nevertheless granted every year for the purpose of averting the injury to grazing animals. From 2010 until today, 120 dead bears have been registered in Norway, 80 of them shot under the trap. When we know from the stock report that the number of bears in Norway is approx. 148 shows at least that the main challenge here is not that the damage is not effective. The challenge is more about balancing in some areas between the need to raise the population at the level that Stortinget has agreed to be on, up to the point where we want to avoid the loss of sheep. These are demanding assessments, but as I consider it, the main challenge is not the effectiveness of harm-reduction. However, I agree that it is important to have an effective fall in damage when giving permission to do so. Doing things efficiently is a high priority. In the last year, we have developed our own guide for the execution of the killing task. He also needs to be updated regularly and is important to share knowledge, so that we can always be better. We have strengthened the State's nature oversight with more means of entering when necessary. What are the most effective methods, I think to a large extent, is a professional question, and the knowledge and experience of the professional authorities must weigh heavily when deciding on the individual decisions and cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4694	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4699	I would like to draw the attention again to the fact that the main point of this proposal for a representative is just damage. There have been some different elements that have been retracted. But I want to say as clearly as it is possible to say to the representative Nävra that if he takes a talk with those who have been involved in this regional project, I think he will soon see that these are people with very great knowledge of both livestock, game and biodiversity. I think the Council of State is familiar with that too, so my first question to the Council of State is really whether he's familiarized himself with the final report of the project. It is important, because it is also part of the basis for the adoption of these proposals, and then proposals No. 4, 5, 6 and 7 become a concrete part of what the Stortinge gets back to assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4706	I have not read that report personally. I assume that he is well-known among those who are working on how we can still improve the damage case. The reason for this is that we have, as I mentioned in my post, our own guide on how to implement a claim. The guide is dynamic and is constantly being upgraded, and the idea is that knowledge should be shared between felling teams and between regions to constantly learn from every season and every single fall job, for the time being to be better. So it's not like there's anyone here, as far as I know at least, who's interested in a not learning of good projects, that a person can't share knowledge across regions. On the contrary, it does a lot of time. I am pleased that the representative is also busy with it, but I remind you that I found a door open when one suggests that one does not learn from knowledge. That's the whole point of having the kind of dynamic guides.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4711	There is at least a lot of good knowledge to learn from in this report, and the reason why those who have participated in the project regionally in this case are satisfied with the cooperation with the State Manager is that the State Manager has shown the will and ability to communicate well and continuously and to take over the new professional knowledge. There has been a lot of new work here, and among other things. what is said about the use of dogs is important here. Then it is also particularly important to remember the following: Destruction is something we do to prevent damage to our domestic animals and take care of them. It's something other than hunting for leisure purposes. So what I'm asking is whether the Council of State can confirm, is whether he wants to make it clear: that the fall for damages is something other than hunting for leisure purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4716	Firstly, it is gratifying to hear that both the locals are talking about, and the representative is so pleased with the cooperation with the environmental management and the state in the ability to test out new methods and experiences and learn from each other. It must be good for absolutely everyone, but it's also good to get it confirmed here from the pulpit. So it's absolutely right, as the representative says, that there's a difference between damages and licensing. That's why one opens to use some tools in claims actions that a non-licensing company does. I agree that there are two different administrative regimes, and that is why there is also the competence to make decisions and the methods that can be used is somewhat different in a licensing situation and in a case of harm.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4723	I think that confirmation actually takes us one step further here today, and that what we're going to adopt even more in detail in the Storting, actually makes the damage killing more effective and consistent, because it is so clearly distinguished that this is not a pursuit for leisure purposes, it's about taking out pests effectively. Then I have to comment to the Council of State that I think he interpreted what I said a little bit. I said that the damage reduction team and the regional cooperation in this case have been satisfied with the cooperation with the State Manager. In the case of other parts of the administration, e.g.: related to stock targets and zone management, there may be slightly different views, but there is another part of the predatory game discussion. Today, we are dealing specifically with damage traps, and there is now a large majority that will decide that we will get more effective and consistent damage traps, and that the experience from the North East Valley and the Engerdal will be shared with other types of damage traps.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4730	There are differences of opinion in this country about the stock target, for example: But if you have strong opinions about it, it's probably not the environmental authorities or the State Manager who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the biggest thing. That means you have to work to achieve the different goals for the different species, whether it's a bear or a wolf or something else, and we don't rarely have that debate in this room. Yes, there is a difference between aggravation and licensing, both in terms of competence, decision-making authority and methods. However, I would like to add that in harm-reduction tasks too, there are some important concerns that need to be addressed when discussing which methods are to be used. Of course, it is about what is useful and effective, but also in harm-reduction tasks, it is about, for example: Animal welfare and other issues are important, and I assume that the Labour Party too agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4737	We are in a difficult situation this winter around the fall of damage to you, because the situation now is that we need a responsible veterinarian, which means that no damages can be granted on you this winter. There have also been many concerns about this from various predatory wildlife topics, and this will pose major challenges for the calving problem we are about to face. Several reindeer have already said that they are concerned, and you see challenges with yours in their pastures. So my question to the Council of State is, how long will it take to get an agreement with a responsible veterinarian, who can anaesthetize you before you kill it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4742	It's right that there's been a challenge when it comes to extraordinary withdrawals of individuals by you now in the winter. When you're about to take off yours in breeding, you have to be sure there's not any little pangs left if you shoot a dam. In case of individual withdrawal, all individuals must be stunned to control gender, milk production, etc. The type of operation, with access to and management of quite potent drugs, requires an agreement with a veterinarian. The state's nature oversight has made an offer to get to it now. Unfortunately, no offers have been entered within the current frames. That means that we have a demanding situation, where the SNO cannot implement extraordinary withdrawals of individual individuals. At the same time, SNO works, in dialogue with both the agricultural authorities and the veterinary community, to find a solution quickly. I would also like to stress that it is still such that the SNO will be able to carry out the hijacking of you this spring, because one then knows where the quails are, and can kill them before one kills the dam. In addition, 65 dead yorks are registered after the licensing period started on 10 September last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4747	I thank you for your answer. I am not reassured that no agreement has been reached with the veterinarian, as it is the responsibility of the authorities. I would like to ask further questions about the situation with which the Council of State is quite familiar, around the bear in the municipality of Bardu. There have been three demanding years for farmers in grazing priority areas there. The municipality has applied for permission for damages on the same bear three years in a row. You got it two years ago, but you got it so late that it wasn't possible to get this bear shot. In the summer, no permission was granted for damages. It was considered to be moved, but it was not done either. As a result, a young farmer from Bardu has now chosen to shut down his farm from this summer. Does the Council not see that this is a predatory policy that is out of control? And what will the Council of State do before spring in order to prevent new attacks of exactly the same bear?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4754	There is always a problem when the bear enters the grazing priority area where he should not initially be. One basic challenge here is that we are very low on the stock target for bear, far below what the Storting has decided. That means that if you want to reach the goal of the Storting, you have to keep enough inside to make one able to get up to that level. But occasionally we still give birth permits, when serious damage occurs. When it comes to the situation in Bardu, it's not that it was just considered whether to move it, it was also decided that one should try to move it. It wasn't on politics, but it was quite simply that one didn't find it, despite the hard work, tracking and monitoring. When one finally found the bins, she was back in predatory priority area, and she has, as far as I know or at least assume, gone in hi. So that situation will have to be followed up again to spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4762	It is not quite true that it was because this bear was not found, that it was considered irresponsible to carry out the move. Yeah, the bear's been in the same place all year long, but we know it's going back to the exact same area. But the council can be reassured that the farmer has now stopped his drift, and that there is no sheep in that area, so then most likely that bear will move to other places. But a little over to the measures we are discussing today: now it seems that we have a majority for some proposals. It's very good, but I want to challenge the Council of State if he doesn't agree that the best and most effective methods of taking out pests are to be used. Then I wonder: When you look at the neighboring country Sweden where it is allowed to use loose, on a driven neck dog, why don't you have it in Norway today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4769	Firstly, I would like to stress that it is of course never a good situation if someone shuts down the operation, and at least not if they do it because of predators. That's not a wish, of course. When it concerns the damage situation in Bardu this year, it is, at least freely after memory, so that there were two animals documented, I believe, that it had been damaged. An attempt was made to move, but when one of these bees was discovered, it was back in predatory priority and was about to walk in here, a time when no one should attempt to stun and move predators. When it comes to the concrete proposals, I am very much in favour of having an effective extraction of harmful predators. We also allow the use of loose, on a driven neck dog when carrying out an injury trap, in some cases. What is not allowed is to use it in a licence agreement, and the representative of the Workers' Party was involved in the reply earlier: Licensing and damages are two different things, and a different method is used.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4778	When the Council of State takes up the situation in Bardu in its answer, I have to answer, for in 3 years, there are almost 300 animals from 3 farms killed by bears – 3 farms, 300 animals over 3 years of age. That's a lot. When the peasants can't do any more because of this situation, when you meet that farmer crying last summer – the State Secretary of the Council was up and met this farmer – it's demanding. When you said you wanted to move the bear, you did it a long time in August. The matter had been trained since June. It is precisely what is the major challenge in predatory policy today — that when an application for harm is made, you are refused, and then the Council of State and the Department come with a goal of moving the pest just before the sheep are taken from pasture. That's exactly what I'm going to challenge the Council of State on: how do you go into the grazing season now with more tranquility around predatory policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4783	Moving bears is not an easy operation. There is a required operation, and one cannot perform it at any time of the year, for different reasons. It has to do with the temperature and risk of overheating animals, it has to do with how thick the animal is – how easy it is to get it stunned after how far out in the season one has come – etc. But there was a decision taken to attempt stunning and moving that animal, and it was also attempted. Had one actually found it, one would probably have moved it, but one did not. It's quite often that it's taken up in this case that one from the political standpoint should do things that are a little demanding to do something with, whether it's controlling whether it's snowing or not, or whether it's finding an animal or not. There is a lot of policy in predatory policies, but there are also some things that are driven by nature. Only administration will have to do the best it can, and they will have to take the decisions they can, and they will have to do the best they can. But it's not always a do, and it's not always the politicians' fault either.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4788	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4795	As I see it, the problem here is whether damage should be done as efficiently as possible. We in the Center Party believe that it should, and that should be a goal for absolutely everyone. An effective harmful trap for large predators is very important. It is important to distinguish between a fall in licence and a fall in damage. The size has been clear that licence and quota felling are carried out by common hunters and shall be the main instrument for controlling the predatory wildlife stock. Harm traps, on the other hand, are about taking out individuals who do harm. The problem is that the harmful traps, those to be effective, those to be prepared, those to do the job in the event of an animal being taken out, must be given an opportunity through the search for a licence to train the necessary knowledge and skills. They must be allowed to use the tools needed in the licence hunt to train, for example. This with a dog. The lot of the centre will point out that the aim of the trap is to extract predators that damage grazing areas and that this is done as quickly as possible to avoid animal diseases. Effective damaging traps are also a central tool to ensure the foreseeable conditions of the grazing industry. We have to trust that there are hunters who can do the job, and we have to trust that it happens quickly. It's exactly the same as when you drive on an animal on the road, when you're going to kill animals that are injured. Then you need professional people, and they need to use the tool that's needed. Even though it is said that ordinary hunting methods are to be used, today there are many ways to do this more effectively, especially when it comes to finding the animal and knowing where it is. Whether all these means have been a dialogue over time, as the Council of State says, but these are instruments that need to be systematised and that people need to access. I myself have been sitting as rapporteur in a municipality with a major predatory problem. I've been in charge of the National Park Board both in Rondane and on Dovrefjell, and I've been away with all kinds of predators. The only way to do this is to make sure that it happens quickly, that you have an effective withdrawal, and that you have people who know their job. They must be allowed to practise in the license hunt.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4808	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4825	Green competitiveness would be like the big act that the government would take to change Norwegian business in a green direction, precisely to give them this competitive advantage in a world that is becoming increasingly environmentally conscious, of desire or of duty or of agreements. The Prime Minister also committed himself personally, and therefore I actually addressed this interview to her, but Rotevatn got the job to answer, and that's enough. The government's new climate plan announces under the heading Conversion and Green Competitiveness that it will set up an expert committee to follow up the Storting's request to look at the overall framework conditions to promote climate-friendly investments in Norway, but I have to ask you, do we really not know enough now? How much is going to be investigated, and how many cooks are going to be in action around this question? Indeed, the mandate should provide a framework for duplication and duplication of work with other selections and investigations — but still. In 2016, the government-appointed Green Competitiveness Expert Committee of Connie Hedegaard and Idar Kreutzer delivered their report describing the driving forces and obstacles to achieving the low-carbon society in very good detail. The expert committee had challenged industry's seas to produce maps, and a whole of 16 maps and 1 chart came in. Most of them are both innovative and offensive. I have to say as a good opponent to the government that this was a good initiative, and there were good results and good maps to follow. The road map listed what authorities had to do to stimulate this green shift. The report was followed up in 2017 by the government's green competitiveness strategy, and in 2019 the Ministry of Climate and Environment organised the Climate Change Conference in which green competitiveness and weaknesses were central. But instead of becoming a start on strengthening the green competitiveness, the conference became a dot. It's a quest to register. At the climate conference, Prime Minister Erna Solberg acknowledged that the pace of the green shift was too low. She recognized it. This was in line with a recent report from the consultant company EY. Unfortunately, the expert committee's report has been slightly followed up, as I see it. The process industry, the financial industry and short sea shipping are partly exceptions. It may seem that it is only through the Green Maritime Programme that the authorities actively support the follow-up of road maps, but here too there are some shortcomings that I am going to come back to in the debate. The process industry has launched its Process21 programme, and we have seen the result. The financial industry is operating on its own initiative, including: to a certain extent to take climate risk seriously. That's good. Strengthening green competitiveness is essential to discover what we will survive after the end of oil and gas extraction, for it does – sooner or later. Green shifts are, of course, necessary to achieve ambitious climate targets and to take the threats from the Climate Panel and the Nature Panel seriously. It may sound a little dry, but a multidisciplinary, cross-ministerial approach is often the basis for a comprehensive model that green competitiveness requires. The Coronapandemic is an example of that. That's where it works, and it's a condition to stimulate at a higher rate in a completely green shift. The world's largest economies have spent an incredible 130 000 billion dollars. in the last year to help the countries out of the economic crisis that has followed in the wake of the coronary apathy. It shows a report from the Finance For Biodiversity Group, and that report addresses the world's 20 largest economies, the so-called G20 countries. Norway has reached 25th place in total 30 countries for the use of funds for a green shift. Only traditional climate hosts such as Russia, Turkey, Saudi Arabia make it worse than Norway. The EU has earmarked 37 pst. of the green crisis money. For Germany, the number is 33 pst, for France 30 pst. SV has asked the government about how much of the crisis money goes to green conversion, and we have received an answer. The answer is 4 of 196 billion. kr. It's going to be 2 pst. If you include the tax subsidies, the number is 1.29 pst. For comparison, the figure for the 30 countries in the survey is 12 pst. In the climate plan, increased CO 2 tax is a major instrument. That's good. We'll pay tribute to that. However, industry has pointed to many smaller obstacles that need to be removed in order to implement the proposed green measures. If we bring up one of the weaknesses, the one about a sustainable travel life, the road map is screaming for a follow-up. The map is there, but aren't we going to use it too? In this map, it is written, among other things. the government must: ‘develop a strategy to preserve natural and cultural values in which sustainable travel must be seen in the context of road and energy development and other major interventions. The strategy shall also include the use of nature and land as a tourism product.’;» Well, has it been followed up? It's been a long way, hasn't it? Quotes to: ‘Additional interventions and expansions that degrade natural and cultural values must be prevented. Major interrelated natural areas of unspoiled character must be safeguarded. The extensive liberalisation of motorcycling legislation would threaten nature values and should therefore be reversed.» Well, has it been fulfilled? On the contrary. There's also going to be a little bit of blame for this. Citation three: ‘In matters relating to new water or wind power projects, new power lines, major road projects, wetland destruction and dumping of mining waste, the tourism industry at national level must become a consultative party and the interests of the industry must be given great importance.’ Is there any point in asking if it's fulfilled? I don't think so. It is a great weakness that it seems that their own efforts in government, i.e., in green competitiveness, have been neglected. It's probably the most important catalyst in the green shift that the government has built up, but it's not being used. What has caused the government to wait for the weaknesses? That's my question to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4873	Emissions in the world must be halved in 10 years in order to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. In a world that cuts emissions, we are at risk of high-emission economies and enterprises becoming less and less competitive. The cost of not acting can also be significant. Companies need to implement new technologies and solutions that replace yesterday's fossil solutions. Product and services must have much lower climate footprints in the future; investing in green solutions must pay off. A green competitiveness strategy was presented by the government in October 2017. It helps to create a framework for the green conversion in Norway. A Green Competitiveness Expert Selection recommended the work on the strategy. The selection received input from central actors in the community. Part of the recordings came in the form of a Green Competitiveness Roadmap. Many road maps describe how greenhouse gas emissions can be cut to zero by 2050, while industry can increase value creation and new jobs. The 2017 strategy focused in particular on the following areas: establishing a market for green solutions green and innovative public procurement research, innovation and technology development; green solution infrastructure climate risk and funding circular economy increasing export of green solutions I'm getting closer to the follow-up of these areas here today. Green competitiveness is an integral part of government climate policy. The climate plan, as we presented in January, is therefore a key element in green conversion and green competitiveness. The climate plan proposes to achieve the climate targets while at the same time facilitating more jobs, enhanced well-being and sustainable growth in the Norwegian economy. The government has said that we want to increase the CO 2 tax and make it more expensive to pollute. It makes it more profitable to cut emissions, it makes it easier to plan emission reductions and more profitable to invest green. Governments will continue to invest in research and innovation, both in Norway and through participation in the EU research programme through Horizon Europe. Research and innovation are contributing to the development of new green solutions that can increase the pace of migration. In the climate plan, the government will strengthen Enova’s climate change instrument for innovation. It is particularly relevant in the context of emission allowances, as public support for research and development is an important complement to the allowances system. The Green Platform cooperation is the new measure taken by the government to coordinate, strengthen and target efforts to stimulate low-emission development and green competitiveness in Norwegian business. The management will focus on CO 2 capture and storage. The government will implement Longship, a project for just capturing, transport and storage. Long-distance shipping shall contribute to the development of CO 2 management as an effective climate action and provide technology development from an international perspective. The finance industry was one of the industries that developed a road map already in 2016. Work on green finance has slowed down in recent years, and much has been done both in the management and in the private sector. In order to succeed in the green transition, it is absolutely crucial that both public and private capital go to the green and forward-looking solutions. As stated in the Climate Action Communication, there is a good dialogue with the business community on green finance in the future. The government will have a dialogue on how we can get better reporting from the company on climate and environment, and we can use it to make good investment decisions. During the spring, the government will present a circular economy strategy and an action plan to promote green and innovative public procurement. The circular economy strategy will include, inter alia: address value creation, job creation and strengthening of green Norwegian competitiveness based on a more circular economy in Norway. So the interpellant points to the good work that the industries have done by making green road maps. I totally agree with that. It is necessary for industries to assume an independent responsibility for green conversion in order to contribute to green competitiveness. Governments should facilitate relations through economic policy, climate policy and business policy. Because I notice that the industries have continued to produce road maps for green competitiveness, so there are now 19 such road maps. Some road maps already come in one version two, such as for industry and the petroleum industry. Other sectors have just launched their first road map. Yes, earlier today there was the launch of a green road map for the arts and culture sector, which now launched its first road map to green competitiveness. SMB Norway wants a roadmap process so that small and medium-sized enterprises can take a greater part in the green transition, and they – in cooperation with the Ministry of Climate and Environment – are in the final phase of a pre-project to look at the possibilities for further action on road map work. It will be exciting to follow along in time. The industry has continued its road map work in Process21. Process21 was launched by the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries in 2017 and was mandated to provide strategic advice and advice on how Norway can best achieve a trend towards minimum emissions for the process industry in 2050. Now in February, Process21 has provided both a final report with recommendations and an updated Green Competitiveness Roadmap. They say that the process industry’s vision of zero emissions in 2050 is achievable and should be passed on. Oil and gas industries have updated their road maps and presented how to reduce their emissions, both by 2030 and 2050. Green shipping is named by the representative Nävra as a work that has been closely followed up by the government, and we're going to continue that effort. The direction and measures are specific to the climate plan. We are strengthening green competitiveness in the maritime sector by establishing an early home market for zero-emission solutions. That is what we do, for example. by setting low and zero emission requirements for different fleet segments, and we streamline them into the climate plan. We also strengthen green competitiveness by providing good tools for maritime nutrition. We use public funds in the Swedish Research Council, Innovation Norway and Enova to both provide grants and loans, triggering private investments for future-oriented and competitive low- and zero-emission solutions. We are aware that, although we get a lot in green shipping, the work on increasing green competitiveness in the maritime sector is a work that will go on for years. We're in the starting range. We're not in the target area yet, but we're going there. The industry's green road maps and dialogue with road map operators are important for the government in the development of new policies. We appreciate recordings and dialogue and being invited to seminars and bets. Norwegian climate policy is closely linked to European climate policy, both through the EEA Agreement and through cooperation with the EU on the joint fulfilment of the 2030 climate objective. Our companies compete in the same market as their competitors in Europe. Green competitiveness has gained an important ally in the EU and in the greening of the EU, the green growth strategy that is now being followed up. The EU's ambitious climate targets and the follow-up to the EU's green give will affect migration in Norway and be important for our future prospects. For this reason, the government is planning, inter alia, to: a conference with the participation of industry from now on to the summer. The aim is to provide Norwegian opportunities in Europe’s green giver. They're big. Norway is a partner with the EU and EU countries in the implementation of the green provision, of the reinforced climate targets and of the opportunities it provides. I have also invited the first Vice-President of the European Commission, Franz Timmermans, to that conference. He is responsible for the EU's green giving, and I want to involve and invite business into the preparatory work and – of course – into the participation in the conference itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4946	I thank the Council of State for the answer and comments. I think there was perhaps little concrete answer given the direct follow-up of green competitiveness and weaknesses. There were scattered views, a lot of talk about climate, Europe, etc., but the direct follow-up I missed. In order to change and get rid of bad environmental practices, unfortunate environmental practices need to be punished in a way, and good practice, technology or behaviour must be rewarded. That's what we call whip and carrot. Very often both parts have to be used – it often gives the best results. The government now largely wants close cooperation with industry, and the industries that have developed these weaknesses are disappointed that they have not been invited to continue the previous cooperation on green competitiveness. This applies, inter alia, to: the development of travel strategies, as I mentioned earlier, and the circular economy. So my question to the Council of State in this debate is whether he does not want to actively invite to continue the previous cooperation under the green competitiveness, or is it that he is staggering his head against other forces in the government? What is it that prevents him from following up the weaknesses and the previous cooperation on green competitiveness? – It would have been very nice to hear the views of the Council of State on it. The government has followed up a little on one of the fields, and on the Green Shipping Action Plan. I'm glad. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the «Norway is the world leader in green conversion in all parts of shipping, but the rate of conversion needs to be significantly increased to meet these ambitions. Although the transition will be demanding, it also opens up new opportunities in the maritime industry. Contracts for the new and environmentally friendly solutions are largely won by Norwegian actors. Competences are built along the whole value chain for green shipping.» – This is a nice language, it is true, and it is important that it is further stimulated. So there's a couple of important ways of doing this. One of them is essential and it is necessary to require zero-emission transport in deliveries to the public, where it is appropriate. It's in one of the points. In my contact with professionals in the professional community, among others in the Shipowners’ Association and the Organisations, they do not see a follow-up to exactly this beyond the requirements of the Size has set zero emissions on new ferries. Why not? Why isn't it followed up for bigger ships? That's my big question, and it's vital for a switch to the green maritime industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4968	I would like to think that we follow the different road maps, at least the suggestions we think are good. I have to do it again. It is not that all road maps proposals in all industries will necessarily give the best result for society or the climate. But very much is good suggestions. Green shipping is easy. If we look at the report from Process21, what the steering group has proposed, there are some important things. They propose, for example: that we need to protect about the EEA Agreement. You can notice that the representative from SV is important to follow up. At least the government does. They suggest that Norway should be attractive when it comes to establishing new green value chains. This is followed up through the Green Platform, for example, which provides important support throughout the whole phase from innovation and research to commercialisation and testing. It is an important project. They propose good arrangements to commercialise and establish CCS in Norway. I believe the Stortinget is well-known that the government has followed up through the largest climate investment in Norwegian industry anything, simply Langskip, etc. So we follow up on running bands through different processes. It is pointed out that zero emission requirements in public procurement are important for shipping. I agree with that. In the climate plan, we are just showing how this is going to happen over the next few years, with requirements for ferries from 2023 and for fast boats from 2025, with requirements for fossil-free sites, that is important when it comes to the transport of masses, for example, and with concession requirements both for offshore supply and the aquaculture industry. It's not like one can immediately set zero emission requirements in all segments, because there's also a technology development that has to happen. It's a differentiated approximation here, but it's a proper approximation. It also helps to trigger precisely the innovation we now see, where Norway, as far as I can judge at least, is primarily in the world of zero- and low-emission technology in the maritime era. We're going to continue to be. Finally, a comment on the comparison of different crisis packages between countries. It's very much comparing apples and pears. To give an example, when comparing what Norway uses on its acute crisis packages with what the EU is doing, there are a few important things you should bring with you. Firstly, it is not that the EU spends money that Norway does not contribute or have access to. It's closely integrated into this, both through innovation funds and through Horizon Europe, so it's not like they're doing something and we're not doing it. I'll do the same thing. Secondly, these are not acute crisis packages as Norway defines. When they have acute crisis packages, they are short-term in order to create employment, while EU programmes go over seven years. It's about long-term work, and I can promise that significant climate investments will be made in Norway over the next seven years. Longships are examples of that. It's not part of a crisis package, but it's still the largest climate investment in Norwegian industry anywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e4985	I want to start by giving SV and Arne Nävra honor to focus on an important topic where it is urgent to move forward with new and concrete actions. I would like to take the opportunity to say something about green shipping, an area where very important work has already been done, but where there is still a lot to be done. For greenhouse gas emissions from domestic shipping, halves shall be made by 2030 and the entire international fleet shall, according to the International Maritime Organization, reduce emissions by 50 pst. by 2050. The Norwegian shipping environment is a constructive driver of the IMO, but is even more ambitious at home. Norway’s Shipowners’ Association has set itself the objective of placing all Norwegian tonnages on zero-emission solutions by 2050 and that Norwegian shipping companies will only order ships based on zero-emission technology from 2030 onwards. This shows that there is both interest and will in the industry to take a roof to create real green growth. But green migration will require large investments both in ships and in ports, and that is where we, as representatives of state authority, should play an active and forward-looking role. Good framework conditions and a targeted instrument are examples that will have an impact and facilitate long-term green investment for Norwegian shipping. The Workers' Party believes that, as a major purchaser of transport services, the State should increasingly demand low- and zero-emission solutions. Through the purchasing power, the State can thus act as a technology driver in the market. Norway has a significant fleet in both short sea shipping, offshore supply, fishing fleet, etc. There is a high potential for rapid transition to renewable and low-carbon technologies. This could also provide new opportunities for Norwegian shipyards and maritime industries and create jobs in Norway for the future. Then we believe in the Workers' Party that it is also necessary to strengthen the Coastal Agency with subsidies for new facilities, maintenance, increased improvement of fishing ports and subsidies for the transfer of goods from road to sea. Finally, I would like to address a concern. In a meeting held earlier today by the Transport and Communications Committee with TØI and SINTEF, SINTEF was clear on the crucial role of ports in the success of the transition to green shipping. This is largely about infrastructure, for example: Linked to hydrogen, where I perceive that we're at the back when it comes to putting in place an overall plane. But it's also about network access, which we have an example in Rogaland, where, among other things, Randaberg Industries on Nord-Jären wants to offer them approx. 100 ships they have within each year, renewable shore electricity, which unfortunately is not possible since the mains power grid does not have free capacity and will not have it for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e5000	One should not have been in many debates and read many articles about the green shift, or be a little more than politically interested, until one perceives that this green shift has now taken the land by storm. It is quite straightforward for the interpellant to introduce — before green shipping, this government has done a great deal to get ahead of processes that are in progress. This means that we are actually among the first in the world in the area, despite the representative from the Labour Party's concern in that way. We have been able to do this with good assurance that we have a business life in our back that can and will, and that has the necessary skills and knowledge, but also the culture of change to get to the reverse operation that we are now in. What we've seen in the last few years is that our investment in other things. green shipping has given rise to ring-fences that we could hardly dream of. The whole business is changing, the green spiral is swirling faster and faster. And what's great to register is that technologies that link up around green shipping, shoot speed and win out also in parallel areas. This may include power generation and distribution, alternative green energy operators, propulsion systems that may be used in fields other than shipping – only to name a few. In concrete terms, this is true of battery factories, hydrogen production, ammonia both in production and in consumption engines that can even be used for renewable energy distribution in many island communities in the Arctic – unlikely to be exciting. Large amounts have been set aside to support the largest floating sea wind farm in the world at Tampen, Longships are seagoing – and so we could have continued. It's this government that makes it possible for all of this to happen, which makes it possible for us now to get to this break, which has our tabs and our leads. The last two weeks since green platform allocations were made – 1 billion. kr is made available for innovative projects. 89 of these are to be reduced to 10, which will receive some large allocations to develop further. We build around clusters, catapults and nodes, which are are arenas for the development of green technologies. We are intrigued as a location for green industrial development, for battery factories, data centres and resilient aquaculture, where we are also well advanced. At the same time, we see that power generation and distribution can gradually become a handicap, as pointed out here, for further development. We also look forward to their good answers on how to solve these challenges, together with the rest of the political environment. In the climate message we're discussing these days, there are additional carrots and whips to reach our climate targets. We have proposals to turn up the CO 2 price in order to get a turn from fossil to renewable consumption. We impose on the public to go ahead to make sure that we get this done, with quite concrete targets for the purchase of means of transport with zero emissions, as the Council of State quite rightly put forward. We facilitate support schemes and are soon putting forward an NTP where environmental concerns are of great importance. We roll out strategies and action plans, circular economy, hydrogen strategy and soon a road map to get further concrete and explain how to implement it in practice. We work together with the business community and with the parties, and I experience great enthusiasm in this work, despite the fact that the representative from SV had to be notified. I'm very proud that we went to the degrees that have entrapped, and that we have a business that looks like we're in the front line. It's great to be the generation that gets to take part in this journey, and I'm happy with this interpellation, which has additionally made it possible for us to lift up all the good work we do in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e5022	Nevertheless, when we are here and have a green evening watch, we must contribute to a little debate, as the representative Arne Nävra has done. There is an important interpellation about the green shift, and especially green shipping. Now we are in the middle of the work on the climate plan that the government has presented to us in Stortinget. What I have in mind is: SV is a party that wants the climate and the environment well, but I wonder a little bit about the solutions you choose. It's a little bit reflected in the rhetoric and the choice of words you use. One borrows some of the EU's ambitions regarding choice of words, but most rhetorical, in a Green New Deal for Norway, but one does not share the EU community. It surprises me a little bit that we should not take responsibility for our continent. In particular, when talking about green shipping, international activity is, to a large extent, of course. That one then does not mention that Norway is going in the brink of sea wind betting, which is actually a large part of the bet on green shipping as well, I wonder. The shipping association is very concerned about it. It is one of the new major opportunities for both the marine and maritime sectors. When SV’s major instrument is to establish a new bank in Norway, there is a slight contrast between the fact that we are actually in a big green shift right now, where investments from international actors, from pension funds and others, capital to Norway in hydrogen projects, in ammonia projects, in carbon capture and storage, which have been mentioned here. We are not entirely able to facilitate the participation of the municipal sector in these investments. There's a lot of biomass that we don't have the ability to take out to capitalists who could be involved in this shift. After all, the maritime sector is also a luxury capital industry and, alongside oil and gas, the largest asset manager. We're also going to include that contribution in this green shift. They have an enormous opportunity to be a driver in what is now happening internationally, together with our yard industry and an offensive supplier industry, who wants to be very demanding in Norway because it makes them competitive abroad. There is something I miss in the dynamic that is not completely caught up in the ambition and the plans SV has in its Green New Deal, so I hope that the representative Nävra can come up with a little bit about what it is, besides having huge demands and ambitions for Norway, which is going to make a contribution to Europe and the world to lead in this green shift that we are already doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e5041	First, to the representative, Mr Kjeseth: I often refer to the European Union. The representative can relax that, because in many cases, I think the European Union is biased. They are in front of us in several areas. They are in front of us, among others. with regard to the device on the emergency packages. I have mentioned that in my article before today, so I have no allergy to the EU on that page. On the contrary, I think that we can learn a lot from the EU in the green sector. There's no doubt about it. With Germany in the driver's seat, they've done a lot, and they're going to do more. That is why I think it might have been a little wanted excuse from the Council of State when he referred to the fact that we are, like, involved in investment in the EU, etc., that we could not compare apples and pears and all this. But it is clear that I also referred to Germany and France, and what they are using as individual countries directly on green migration in the context of the crisis packages. Otherwise, a lot of single points were mentioned, also in the articles of Kjeneth. We agree on a lot of this. The left and SV are not so far apart from many of these concrete measures. Longships were mentioned. Yeah, it's Langskip, but it's a little short. Well, it's got to be, but it's got to go well. We agree on a lot of this. It was said that we just want some kind of new state investment bank. No, there's a lot more than that in our very comprehensive green plan, and I think the representative knows that. It is the investment fund, but also the use of the State instruments that are there, the facilities that are there. For example, Nysnø needs to be given some completely different muscles than before, the same thing with Enova. We have done this in every year's budget, and now we have really joined in saying that we must increase the ambitions enormously, also in the portfolio of Nysnø e.g.. Then I'll come back to my starting point. I kindly addressed the government's own ambitions, their own great project with green competitiveness. That's where I started, and that's where I want to end. I still think that you have not completely picked up the glove around these weaknesses. There may be two road maps in particular I miss. One of them stands my heart very close. It's getting a green turn in Norwegian travel life. I believe that the Council of State can respond to whether he, together with the Minister of Industry, could undertake to follow up the proposals of the Travel Life Map. That's where I think it's missing. It's kind of a missed opportunity that was in the crisis packages we've adopted. One could use the opportunity there to get measures for a greener travel life. The same applies to the circular economy. After the observations I've had on quite close by some of the processes, it's been a little bit above-and-down process, and I think it's very important that the Council of State initiates the old inter-sectoral cooperation. But otherwise, thank you for the debate. I thank the Council of State for its commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e5056	Let me do what I didn't do in the first article, and that's thanking the interpellant for the interpellation. This is a good discussion to take. There's something the government is very busy about, and it's good that the Storting is too, simply by how we can strengthen the green competitiveness in Norway, because it's very important. Finally, let me make a few comments on things that have been very much up. There are several here, both representatives of Eskeland, Kalsås and others, who have our way into green shipping. There's a lot of exciting happening right now. New projects are being launched almost every week — hydrogen cargo ships, hybrid fishing vessels and speedboat projects, etc. This is good news, and more will come. Then it's right, as the representative of Kalsås points out, that we have to make sure that the infrastructure is in place in our ports as well. Enova has supported a number of rural electricity projects around it. It's important. We have to get hydrogen up, but it's right as it's said, that this is also related to grid capacity and so far power generation, so here we have to see things in context. In short, I think that what we're doing in green shipping is a success story, but it's only started so far. There is a lot more that needs to be done in Norway, in Europe, where it is now being discussed whether to take shipping into the quota market. It is a very exciting proposal that will give Norway great opportunities, which means that one will also make greater demands on European shipping in order to reduce emissions. That's good news in that case. So it's IMO, not least, where Norway plays a leading role internationally to get higher standards. There I would say, as someone was involved here, that the Federation of Shipowners also plays an important role and has seen its own ambitious goals. That's good. So the representative pointed out a couple of things in his final appeal about things that need to be put in place. When it comes to circular economy, I totally agree that it's going to be a very important theme in the future -- that's what it already is. We are in the process of a circular economy strategy that the government has been working with for a long time, and have got a lot of good input into that process from business, just about how circular economic solutions can strengthen Norway's green competitiveness. It's on its way. It is good that SV wants to give more money to Nysnø. Nysnø was something that was particularly important to my party, when we got it established. I'm glad that we've been done, and that one has been filled with capital there. But it's clear: capital placed in Nysnø is also real money that one has to prioritize. I notice that the 20 billion. kr that SV will now give to Nysnø, was not part of SV's alternative government budget. But that's what I'm assuming next time, so that you don't make a bill without a host, because we also have to take care of it in this green competitiveness work. Yeah, we're going to spend money on it, but here it's also going to have to be a priority. There are a lot of other things to consider in a budget process, and then you have to show how to find them. That makes the government with the largest climate effort anything in the budget for this year, and more will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e5070	That is when the debate is on case No. 13 done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e5088	There weren't many people in this room. It is nice to see the representative Bohemian came in, otherwise it will be the councillor and me and the prime minister. I promise not to tell anyone. There are many opinions about the medical plans in Oslo. The plans are controversial in the trade unions, among the citizens of Oslo and among political parties, both in Stortinget and in Oslo City Council. In 2016, the board of Health South-East decided to lay down Ullevål Hospital and build a new, large regional hospital on Gaustad, as well as a local hospital on Aker. The plans were approved by Health Minister Bent Höie, who is sitting here in the hall. The plans have met with strong criticism. Several believe that the planned hospitals will be too small for a growing population, while the professional community has feared patient safety. The trustees of the employees have wanted Ullevål to be expanded, rather than the solution pointed out by the board. It was then a desire and a pressure to light Ullevål as an alternative, and the board of Health South-East presented its lighting in May 2019. It concluded that it would cost close to 13 billion. kr more and delay the project by seven years if the new hospital was added to Ullevål in front of Gaustad. The lighting has received criticism from several teams, and several have wanted a full investigation of the Ullevål option. The State budget for 2020 provided a loan guarantee of 30 billion. kr to Health South-East for the expansion plans at Gaustad and Aker. The new hospital buildings will therefore constitute Norway’s largest land-based construction project. As a general rule, the upper elevation limit in Oslo is 42 metres, while Oslo University Hospital is now planning a 76-metre-high hospital in connection with the Rikshospitalet in Gaustad. Health South-East's proposal for a regulatory plan was also made last year, when the dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo did not take place. The local politicians of Oslo have clearly demonstrated their opposition to the hospital plans at Gaustad. If you succeed in caring for the needs of the citizens of Oslo for hospital services, it would be beneficial for a broad political majority to support the solution chosen. As the matter stands now, it seems that such ambition is not real. The opposition to the establishment of a new hospital in Gaustad is increasing in strength, and the arguments for expanding the capacity of existing Ullevål hospitals are increasing. Not least, Oslo's local politicians have been very clear about this. As the first party in Oslo City Board, the City Board of the Advance Party already promoted in May 2018 a private proposal to stop the closure of Ullevål Hospital while giving priority to Aker Local Hospital. Gradually, other parties have also taken a clear view of the matter. Last January, there was a new majority in Oslo City Council to reverse the Right and the Workers' Party's decision of 2018 to support the plans to shut down Ullevål. The majority then asked for a real investigation into the existence of Ullevål hospitals, and would give priority to the development of Aker hospitals. The city council is now waiting for the regulation case, which is expected to be dealt with by the city council this spring. Only the Right in Oslo is against the continued operation of Ullevål. That means that there is a majority in Oslo City Government, including the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, who want the opposite of the government's proposal. The entire investigation process has been put on the head. This has taken into account which blanks were chosen first, and then the needs of the population came last. The report ‘Economic considerations on the plan for New Oslo University Hospital’, prepared by quality assurance expert Eilif Holte, Professor of Management Economy Bjarne Jensen, Hospital Architect Tor I. Winsnes and Civil Economist and State Suites Per H. Christiansen, brings up several interesting perspectives. The report reviews the financial assumptions of the New OYS and shows that the risk profile has deteriorated significantly since last year’s Stortingen dealt with the loan request. If the economy of the New OUS cracks, it will have consequences for all planned hospital projects in South East Norway. It is clear that we need to put in place a capacity increase for the citizens of Oslo. And it's not just Oslo's inhabitants, it's about patients who belong to Southeast Norway, that's more than half of Norway's population. Unfortunately, hospital planning and the capacity challenge for Oslo alone are not the challenges. The problems at Kalnes were described this spring in a comprehensive evaluation report. The critics who already in the planning phase warned that the hospital would be too small were right. Thousands of patients were in the corridor already in the first year. The Prestitial Hospital, which was planned for zero Corridor Asians, has had major problems since the opening. The Kalnes project has been described as scandalous by many. It turned out that the hospital was undersized in most functional areas. Despite Kalnes being one of Health South-East's most modern hospitals, the hospital is crowded, which means that the work flow in the hospital is hindered and the operation becomes less efficient. At the same time, the hospital has a demanding economy. If health south-east is to be economically sustainable in addressing growing needs, in particular after 2032, current projects must be planned for good and efficient operation. It's not the same thing as minimizing the functional areas. The criticism of the New OUS plans is much the same — too small bed capacity and lack of and too small functional areas. However, the consequences are becoming more serious. The OUS is Norway's second largest hospital and is important for the whole country. Two out of three patients treated at the OUS do not live in Oslo. Insufficient capacity in the OUS will have serious consequences both for patient safety and for preparedness across the Eastern region. The hospitals around Oslo are largely dependent on the OUS, both as a rear guard and to deal with the most serious injured and ill patients from all over the region and in many cases from all over the country. The challenge of ensuring that hospitals are built to the right expected capacity needs is greater than for Oslo only, but still applies to Oslo. In the past, the Progress Party has called for and proposed to amend the funding model for hospitals in order to separate investment and operations. But all the time that is not in force, there is a need to be aware and forward-looking about the construction of new hospitals and/or the extension of today's hospitals. I started my article by pointing out that there is a great deal of disagreement about the future hospital structure in Oslo. The disagreement includes trade unions, the citizens of Oslo and the political parties both in Stortinget and in Oslo City Council. In other words, relatively few have been persuaded by the arguments of the government and the Minister of Health. With this as a hindrance, I would like to answer whether the Council of State sees it as a paradox that those who represent Oslo's citizens collectively do not welcome the government's planned hospital project, and whether the government might take these signals seriously and thus go another round on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e5120	Oslo needs new hospital buildings. Large parts of the buildings at Ullevål Hospital are out of date. Increased capacity is needed for Oslo’s growing population and, in particular, the need to pool specialised services. It was a comprehensive plan that laid the foundation for the structure – the so-called target image – that was adopted in June 2016. The work on which the decision on the hospital structure in Oslo was based was carried out in dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo. In the consultation round for the 2014 Idea phase, the Municipality of Oslo pointed to Aker as an alternative to Ullevål as the location of the local hospital. In January 2016, the City Council of Oslo recommended the expansion model that was later adopted by me in the corporate meeting that year. In 2018, Oslo City Council also supported the development solution now available, in its consultation response to Regional Development Plan 2035 for Health South-East. I understand that when new hospital buildings are planned, many have wishes and expectations for the specialist health service. Health South-East is responsible for planning a good specialist health service offer with enough capacity. At the same time, the regional health enterprise is also responsible for ensuring that the best possible use is made of society’s resources. In particular, there is labour that can become a scarce resource and limits the future. Better use of health professionals in the metropolitan area was like a backstop when former Health East and Health South was merged into Health South-East in 2007, and there was a clear lead to start the planning work for New Oslo University Hospital. I want to add that Oslo University Hospital, in addition to being a local hospital for parts of the population of Oslo, is also a regional hospital for the inhabitants of the health region south-east. The hospital also has a number of national treatment functions for residents throughout Norway. I would like to stress that Oslo as a host municipality has a responsibility to facilitate offers also for residents beyond Oslo. This offer must be established with a structure that does not involve a disproportionate proportion of health professionals in the capital, and thus exceeds the supply of the population in the rest of Norway. It is not planned to build a 76-metre-high hospital tower in connection with the New Rikshospitalet at Gaustad. Health South-East has stated that the height of the highest buildings in Gaustad varies between 46 and 53 metres. At the same time, what the representative refers to is a norm for high-rise buildings in Oslo. According to this standard, an alternative draft plan is to be drawn up if the height of the building exceeds 42 metres. Health South-East has therefore also developed a plan with a development solution within 42 metres of the height of Gaustad. Aker Hospital, on the other hand, is planned for higher construction. The regulatory plan proposes a construction height of 71.2 metres. Also for Aker Hospital, an alternative plan has been developed that shows an extension solution with a height of 42 metres. In both hospitals, helicopter platforms are planned to exceed the building height by 4 to 6 metres. It is clear from the plan and building kit that this is in line with the norm for high-rise buildings. The New Aker and the New Rikshospitale are now under assessment in the planning and building kit in Oslo. An extended dialogue phase with the planning and building kit has been carried out to assess possible adjustments to the plan proposal drawn in June 2020. Central themes in this dialogue have been the exploitation of the land concerned, height, protected construction, green structure and the interaction between the new building mass and the existing building mass. There are few projects that have been investigated to the same extent as New Oslo University Hospital. The planning has been over a long period of time and has been comprehensive and costly. The target picture with a new structure was adopted almost five years ago and additional investigations have been carried out to support the agreed hospital structure. Furthermore, design phases have been implemented for the projects to be established on Aker and Gaustad, and the Stortinget has adopted the loan framework for the overall construction project. A number of adjustments have been made to the projects based on input from trustees and the trade unions at Oslo University Hospital. Now the pre-projection work is under way. 40 participation groups have been established as an essential part of the pre-projection work. Each group consists of eight to ten employees, users, security services and trustees. Over many years, Oslo University Hospital has spent considerable resources on maintenance and investment in buildings that are not suitable for future hospital operations. Many buildings are operated with temporary permits from different supervisory authorities. Progress in the project plans is now important in order to achieve more targeted investment in Oslo. Users are quite clear that they cannot accept a postponement of the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e5139	I interpret it as if the Minister of Health is not willing to discuss anything other than what he has already concluded, that he will not take into account the many protests that are out there. The Progress Party had a small own hearing here a few days ago, with different groups — in fact, eight groupings — that had a completely different view from that of the Minister of Health. So it doesn't help to sit down with many of these and emphasize that they agree with him, when most of them obviously aren't. It's okay that he's dealing with the board, which probably says what they've been saying all along, but there are other groups here that disagree. It's urgent for them; I'm a little uncertain about what the minister means by that. Is he talking about the patients, or is there anyone else who wants it to be urgent? Or is that the government itself? The patients want to have the best possible offer they can get, it's quite obvious. But here, there are obviously disagreements in different environments. If you want progress in a project, you can't just say that now you have to make a decision and we have to make progress. You actually have to bring people with you. It's not just hospitals, it's general in society. If you want to succeed, you need the support of a broad majority. I don't know how the Minister of Health has intended to convince, but he's standing on the pulpit and saying it's going to be like it's been and we'll keep on doing it. It's not exactly the size of the buildings that are most crucial here, although the minister is probably right in what he says about the height of the house, but that's not the important thing. With regard to the regulatory plan, is it that the Minister of Health wants to deal entirely with the Municipality of Oslo? Or if the municipality does not do as he says, will he have a state regulation plan and review the municipality? I should have liked to have a look at it. I repeat the question from the introduction: Is it so that everything has been done and said, and that there will not be a new round? Then there's little point in standing here and discussing, if there's no willingness to look at it again, not least because most of the parties in Oslo disagree with the Minister of Health. The few people in this room also disagree with the Minister of Health, but it doesn't help much. Anyway: I had hoped for a slightly more offensive attitude from the minister than to say he has concluded, and finished it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e5152	I discuss this matter both carefully and often, preferably in Stortinget and also often elsewhere. It's an advantage when you discuss these kinds of things, that you're also open to facts. I think it's quite illustrative that the interpellant chooses to use the height of the Gaustad building as a main element in a button interpellation text. Then it has to be a very important moment for the interpellant. I've at least written some interpellations myself, and I've been very careful that the most important arguments come out in the text, which is buttony. But now it seems that when the fact interpellant asserted in his interpellation, was not right, it suddenly wasn't so important anymore. I think it is quite illustrative for this debate. A lot of people that the representative listens to come up with very harsh and clear arguments against this project, and when the facts come up on the table, they change arguments and try to find other areas where one argues against. Then it's important that the representative listens to those who are the users. That is what I referred to in my final answer: the users, i.e. the user selection, are very clear on this matter. Of course, I expect the Municipality of Oslo, as a host municipality, to act as a serious regulatory authority in this matter. The Municipality of Oslo has expressed its opinion on this matter in the stages in which the Municipality of Oslo will deliver its opinion as a consultative body, and in those phases, the Municipality of Oslo and the majority of Oslo have supported the solution that is now being worked on and that has now entered a very crucial stage after the Stortinget granted the loan framework for the project just before Christmas. The next important step is the regulation of the project. If one then is very opposed to altitude in Oslo, the challenge is primarily related to Aker Hospital, but I haven't heard that the same arguments about altitude are linked to Aker Hospital. While one in this debate, for example: have heard some opponents use the concept of a tower of infection built on Gaustad, one does not hear the same about the height of Aker, which is a hospital for which many of those who are opposed to the extension of Gaustad are, even though there is a higher building than that planned on Gaustad.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e5163	I've had the pleasure of discussing this with the Health Minister since he joined, I think, we started early in Stortinget. I have to say that in the first debates the Minister for Health had a more open attitude. Then he took over the legacy of the previous minister of health, in the red-green government, and there was a development in positions later on in the period of, among other things. Aker Hospital – and I remember the Radium Hospital was also in play at the time – where there were clarifications. So I felt before, when the Minister of Health had not locked himself so much to the current plans, that it was possible to arrive at debates in the Stortinget. Then I am a little surprised that there is so much pressure that now there is progress – I heard it was said by the Minister of Health that users cannot accept postponement. I don't know what he defines as users, either, but in Oslo there have been polls where 70 pst. is to preserve Ullevål and against the plans that the Minister of Health calls the target image. The large associations – the Medical Association, the Nursing Association, the Trade Union – and the municipal committees concerned are opposed to these plans. And in the City Council, the situation has changed after the 2019 elections. I heard that the Oslo Workers' Party has turned its back on the city council, so now it's only one party, Right, that supports the plans of the city council. In that case, it is not just a matter of referring to decisions in 2016 and 2018, as the Minister for Health did. I am aware that you need to work long-term, you can't ignore previous decisions, but you can't ignore new realities either. What I'm excited about now is what's happening here in Stortinget with these plans, because it's the Stortinget that's responsible – not the City Council in Oslo – for the appropriations and for Health South-East, and that has the Minister of Health as the person we can discuss with. We have made proposals here in the Stortingen now on OUS's plans and Ullevål hospitals, and it will be interesting to see both what the Progress Party is doing here in the staging room with the proposals that are soon to be dealt with, and what the Workers' Party is doing after the local party in Oslo has turned around. We'll get back to that. What I would like to focus a little on is the development in Oslo of the need for hospital capacity and local hospital capacity. If one expects the population of Oslo to increase by 10,000 a year – it increased by 12 000 last year – plus that the three parts of Groruddalen will be transferred to Oslo University Hospital from Aarhus, as planned until 2035, there will be an increase in the population base of Oslo University Hospital by 2035 of 260 000 more people. There is a much larger population base than many local hospitals have, and to cover that population increase, Oslo University Hospital has now set up 67 more beds in the field of mental health protection and 350 more beds in the field of somatics. Compared to the plans we have seen earlier in terms of capacity both for Aarhus and for Kalnes, where there has been a lot of corridor Asians, and where the need for capacity has been underestimated, among other things. In the case of elderly nursing patients, I think there is reason to go through the figures for what is planned for increased capacity, many more times in the future. I asked the hospital directors about this in a chronicle, and I also asked if, with this large population increase, we do not need a new local hospital in Oslo after 2035. They answered that affirmatively. Then my big question is, if we get there that we have to plan a new local hospital in Oslo already after 2035: why don't you keep Ullevål instead and use the local hospital capacity we have there, instead of starting completely at scratch with a new hospital just in 15 years? Then you'll be much more sure that we have capacity in the future, you'll be able to solve many difficult conflicts and balances, and that might be cost-effective too.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e5176	This is a wise initiative by Mr Tybring-Gjedde, representative of the Progress Party. I expect his views to be anchored in his own party, so that this is the view of the Progress Party, and that they therefore vote in favour of the Ullevål case being dealt with in the Health Committee. The majority of Oslo city government is crystal clear: they want to ensure that the Oslo region has good, modern and enough places in hospitals. The plans to demolish Ullevål hospitals and build new Gaustad hospitals as a hospital tower, with a small base area, are not a good plan. In these corona times, we've had some experiences to take with us. Our everyone's assistant health director Espen Nakstad said well in a NRK interview on March 28th last year: «Perhaps we have to have systems with hospitals with more space, not build heavy high towers, but in a way have more infection protection into the way we build hospitals.» It should mean scrapping the infectious tower plans of the government and the health business. The plan would give patients less space, and it is clear that the plan has not taken into account the expected population growth in the Oslo region. From an environmental and recycling point of view, it is a completely wrong decision to discard Ullevål Hospital. The state has used a lot of resources to renovate Ullevål. There's a need for more upgrade on Ullevål, and there's a good place to build more when we need it. There are no great possibilities in Gaustad. Combined with the expansion and upgrading of Aker Hospital, Oslo will have a good hospital solution, and my local hospital, Ahus, will also have more room since the patients in Groruddalen do not need to take a seat there. I expect the Tybring-Gjedde and Advance Party to follow the clear opinion of Oslo City Council and therefore vote for the representative proposal that SV, the Center Party, MDG and Rødt have promoted to develop Ullevål Hospitals and secure the inhabitants of Oslo good hospital services with enough capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e5194	We need to save our hospitals before it's too late. The plans for a new hospital structure in Oslo show that the government does what overpaid directors in Health South-East will – rather than employees, trade unions and people most in the city. We have the largest hospital in Northern Europe. Selling the hospital as we face a pandemic that underlines the need for good health care is incomprehensible to most people. It's actually a betrayal of the population. While it is planned to sell the hospital plot, the entire population of Oslo does not receive hospital services in its city. It is planned that the population of Grorud and Stovner will remain in Akershus, in a hospital that has been under pressure on capacity since day one. There is one thing that is clear: that the population of Grorud and Stovner must wait for at least ten years until they can perhaps get back to their local hospital in Aker, and that is just maybe, because stage two is neither concrete nor funded. Anyone who believes seriously that Aker Hospital must be a full-fledged local hospital for the whole of Groruddalen has the opportunity to go against the directors' performance plans and for a hospital offer for the benefit of the population. Red, Senterpartiet, SV and the Environmental Party The Greens together have made proposals to develop Ullevål hospitals and ensure good hospital facilities with enough capacity for the inhabitants. It is a proposal that the representatives of the Progress Party can also support if they want to do more than just talk about it today. We have a historic opportunity to have a majority if the Progress Party and the Labour Party do as their own Oslo teams. We can actually save Ullevål hospitals. We can actually get a majority to stop the plans to sell the plot. We can make sure that Aker Hospital becomes a local hospital for the whole of Groruddalen. There are many problematic aspects of the medical plans in Oslo. They have been illuminated several times, and each time the problem list becomes longer. Risk and vulnerability analyses for new Oslo hospitals have not evaluated which building solutions are most suitable for pandemics. There is no regulatory plan. The economic carrying capacity is uncertain. The plans involve splitting up the complete emergency medical environment on Ullevål. The population of Oslo is opposed to laying down Ullevål hospitals. The majority of the city council will also maintain the hospital. All the trade unions, such as the Medical Association, the Nursing Association and the Trade Union, have opposed the lay-off of Ullevål Hospital. They know what they're talking about. They have been in some of the biggest crises and have no interest in this matter other than the consideration of patients and the hospital offer. There is a high risk that the plans will not be implemented, and not enough capacity is planned to take into account the population growth in our city. But anyway, you want to sell the plot, a fault that can have major consequences. Now that the Oslo Workers' Party has turned around in this important matter, only the Right in Oslo City Council is to lay down Ullevål Hospital. The Progress Party is no longer in government – they can vote in favour of our proposal if they agree. We can put an end to this madness before it's too late. Then my question is not really to the Minister of Health today, it is to the Progress Party: Will the Progress Party listen to people most in Oslo? Is the Progress Party going to vote in favour of the joint proposal from the Red, the Senter Party, the SV and the Green Party, or will the Progress Party be careful with a little debate here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e5213	I can say it outright: the party of progress has not decided. This is an interpolation. There are different points of view and a call to the Council of State. That's what the interpellation is about. This is not a proposal to be voted on after we have finished the debate. To refer to a proposal to be decided in two weeks' time is not relevant in this debate. I understand it's relevant in 14 days, but now we're going to deal with this debate. I have no mandate to stand here and say that the Progress Party will support one or the other. What I have a mandate to do is to get the Minister to go over what he has decided and see if there are other alternative solutions and evaluate them. My feedback to my group would be that the minister does not have the will – perhaps he has – to do so, and then I have to report it back. Had the minister been a little more open and said that we would go some more rounds, I would have reported it back. That's my feedback to my group. I can't do anything but that. If the minister thought that there was a height that was crucial, that was why the Advance Party in the city government went against the plans, it is not. But there's something called ‘if it ain't broken don't fix it’, and that's exactly what's going on with Ullevål. Both employees and patients — all — are satisfied with Ullevål. There's a large area where, there's a lot of space, and the possibility of expanding Ullevål is there, if you have a desire to re-examine it and see how to use Ullevål Hospital in a better way. It is important not to sit in trenches. If you sit in trenches now, there will be no solution, or there will be a huge conflict between the parties in Oslo on a very central and important question. We who live in Oslo are busy trying to get an agreement on something and don't try to make a campaign or anything else out of this question. But let's get the best possible hospital solution for Oslo. That's at least the goal of the Progress Party, and then we'll see what we fall on. But I wanted a little more open minister, who was a little bit more ready to discuss -- a little more like the representative Bohemia, who was actually willing to look at things and discuss things, instead of just saying no. I had hoped for that from the minister. Maybe he'll do it in his last post.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e5228	Yes, I am definitely open to discuss this matter, and so was I when I became Minister of Health. Then I took over a situation from the Workers' Party where the plan was to build a large hospital in Gaustad, which would be the largest hospital in northern Europe. I asked some critical questions about those plans, and that's what triggered the process that ended with the solution that we have now. These included: based on important recordings from the Municipality of Oslo – Oslo, which had a strong desire for local hospitals to return to Aker. Not least there was a strong commitment from the representative Bohemian for it. It was also a strong commitment, not least from the Progress Party, which was then placed in government, to maintain the Radium Hospital as a cancer hospital, which is an internationally well-known environment that is located along with what is one of the leading research environments, including internationally, on cancer. It seems quite pointless to move that cancer environment up to Gaustad, away from that environment. There were two important premises, and then there was one more with one last question: Should the total regional hospital for Health South-East be built on Ullevål or on Gaustad? For someone who lives only a few miles from the University Hospital in Stavanger, it's not really a very important personal question, but I just had a very open attitude to what was the most sensible. It is simply such that the building mass on Ullevål is destroyed. The representative Tybring-Gjedde said that if it's not broken, it won't fix it. But the building mass on Ullevål is very much destroyed. There is already too much money invested in keeping Ullevål operational with temporary solutions and extensive exemptions. So moving the Rikshospital from a relatively much newer building mass to Ullevål was both an economic and risky much worse project, and thus one ends up having the new regional hospital in Gaustad. It is an important project not only for the population of Oslo, not just for the people of Health South-East, but for the entire population of the country. Why can't you have both Gaustad and Ullevål? It is simply because it requires the double manning of very highly skilled personnel who are lacking in the rest of Norway. It is not, in fact, acceptable from the rest of the country's point of view to continue the shared regional hospital in the capital. Not least now, when the representative Bøhler represents the Centre Party, he should be a little more concerned about what was going on outside the Grorud Valley, and look at the consequences of such a solution for the people of Northern Norway, the West and Middle Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e5237	That is when the debate is on case No. 14 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e5251	This crisis should overshadow everything we do in health policy. The coronary apathy is small in relation to antibiotic resistance. Antibiotic resistance is called the health sector’s climate crisis. Every year, 750,000 people die as a result of antibiotic resistance. Forecasts show that worldwide, 10 million people will die annually from antibiotic-resistant bacteria from 2050. Antibiotics are the basic plank of the health care system. Without effective antibiotics, much of the health sector will disappear. It is essential for almost all operations, from cancer treatment to cesarean section. This matter should be important to everyone, but to me it is personal. I got two types of broad spectrum antibiotics when I had sepsis. One of them didn't work. If the other one hadn't worked, I wouldn't be here today. If we don't deal with this now, our children and grandchildren will ask us why we didn't act when we had time. The most important measure Norway can take is the use of less antibiotics and, in particular, broad-spectrum antibiotics. Norwegian doctors are withholding antibiotics, but we're not the best in class. Before the coronary pandemic, Norwegian doctors distributed significantly more antibiotics than their Swedish colleagues, and up to 30 pst. more than its colleagues in the Netherlands. The aim was to reduce the consumption of so-called wide-spectrum antibiotics in the population by 30 pst. by the end of 2020. In May 2020, I asked the Council of State how we were going, and it was clear that Norway would not reach the target. Now it looks like we can reach the goal. The closure in order to counteract coronary infection, improved hand hygiene and less physical contact has led to a reduction in infection from other viruses and bacteria. I'm still worried that less use will just be a bluff, and that it will be used more when society opens up again. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the use of antibiotics does not increase again when the pandemic is over? In the budget, SV proposed earmarked funds for antibiotic resistance and better diagnostic systems. We didn't get a majority for that. In the United Kingdom, they work a lot to get faster and better diagnostic systems. Then they can quickly find the right antibiotics, or find out that the person should not be given antibiotics. It will significantly reduce the use of antibiotics. Does the government have work to do to improve and speed up diagnostic systems? When patients need antibiotics, it is much better to use narrow-spectrum antibiotics. We have had problems getting some of the narrow spectres on the market. Private companies make less money when they sell generic medicines, like penicillin. SV has made proposals on the state production of medicinal products, StatMed. We haven't had a majority for that. We had a majority to investigate Norwegian production of antibiotics, but the government parties voted against it. When will the Stortinge get the case we are asking for, and does the government have concrete solutions and agreements to produce narrow-spectrum antibiotics in Norway? New antibiotics will cost you dearly, and the whole plan is to put them on the shelf and not use them. If we use new antibiotics, resistance will increase, and then we'll be on the starting line again. Therefore, private companies cannot profit from selling new broad spectrum antibiotics. It clearly shows that capitalist thinking does not work. Without the community, the state, we can't get new antibiotics and at the same time have less antibiotic resistance. We have two funding mechanisms called push mechanisms and pull mechanisms – one to finance research and one for production and safety for those who will try to produce new antibiotics. The UK health service starts these days a pilot for such a ‘pull mechanism’ where they will pay for the value of new antibiotics to society. Is Norway involved in a conversation with the United Kingdom and others on both pull and push mechanisms and does the government have any solutions for them? Antibiotics are almost like carpet bombing the body. It kills the «bad» bacteria, but also the «good» bacteria. We know that it's a better medicine that just takes the bad ones, and it's bacteriophages. The knowledge of bacteriophages has been given a new spring, and new research shows that bacteria that become immune to antibiotics are becoming more open to bacteriophages. An attack on two fronts could be the rescue we need. The problem is that one type of bacteriopathic disease only attacks one type of bacterium. Since there are so many bacteria, we need a lot of bacteriophages in stock to treat the diseases. In Paris and Stockholm, there is a lot of research in bacteriology. What does the government do in terms of both research and cooperation with other countries to use bacteriota in the treatment of bacteria? We had a majority on Stortingen to reduce the import of antibiotic resistance. Three important decisions were: to warn patients who are planning to use non-North healthcare providers, since we know that many of these people will travel home with bacteria that are immune to antibiotics to require prior authorisation for reimbursement of hospital expenses abroad; reducing the increased use of patient treatment in countries with a high risk of antibiotic resistance; The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left Party annulled the Decision. Much of the increase in antibiotic resistance is due to the use of antibiotics in agriculture — not in Norway, but in other countries. Worldwide, we use more antibiotics for meat breeding than for sick people who need it. When we import meat from farms that feed animals with antibiotics, our money is used to increase the incidence of antibiotic resistance. I have asked the Minister of Agriculture to reduce imports, but it is impossible with current EEA rules. That is why we have launched a plan b, namely the labelling of meat products, so that consumers can choose products that do not contribute to antibiotic resistance. But the right-wing parties voted against the proposal. I think we need a radical government that works against the import of bacteria that are immune to antibiotics. However, I hope that the Minister of Health will respond clearly with concrete measures in Norway to reduce the prevalence of antibiotic resistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e5299	I share the representative's commitment to antibiotic resistance. Just tonight it looks like only the two of us are engaged, but I know that many others in the Storting are also engaged in this matter. Antibiotic resistance is a rapidly growing problem in the world and poses a serious threat to our global health. The fight against resistant microbes is a global challenge and international cooperation is a prerequisite for reducing resistance and deaths associated with antibiotic resistance. Resistant microbes are a problem for patients, for healthcare, for public health, for agriculture and the environment. Without effective antibiotics, we will in the future see increased mortality rates of diseases that are currently easy to treat. The government's efforts against antibiotic resistance have produced results. In 2015, we set a very ambitious target for antibiotic use. In both health and agriculture, significant efforts have been made to reduce and maintain low antibiotic consumption, and we have been able to further reduce antibiotic use in recent years. Use in the population should be reduced by 30 pst. by the end of 2020. Preliminary figures indicate that we have achieved this goal and most of the other targets we set in 2015. The target of 20 pst. reduction in antibiotic use in respiratory infections has already been achieved, and the consumption of antibiotics for Norwegian teenagers is now under one third of what it was in 2019. We have also managed to keep the proportion of resistant yellow staphylococci in both hospitals and primary health services very low. In order to measure antibiotic use in hospitals, we have introduced annual measurements that also show a steady decline in recorded infections. In particular, urinary tract infections have decreased. This is important in order to reduce antibiotic use. The government's ambition to reduce antibiotic consumption in agriculture has also been a success. Narasin used in chicken production was phased out in 2016 and the target of reducing the antibiotic consumption of pet animals and food-producing terrestrial animals was achieved as early as 2017. The government’s strategy has been successful, and Norway is still among the leading countries in the world with low antibiotic consumption. In 2020, the Government decided that the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, the Ministry of Climate and Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will cooperate to further develop the national strategy from 2021. The task of the Public Health Institute is to lead a cross-sectoral expert group updating the professional basis of the strategy. Research and development on new antibiotics and international cooperation are central to the government’s strategy to combat the problem of resistance. Norway has contributed to the development of new antibiotics, primarily through participation in EU cooperation on antimicrobial resistance and health-related infections, where Norway has managed a work package on research and innovation. Incentives developed shall stimulate new antibiotic innovation and at the same time provide us with predictable access to antibiotics. Because when fewer and fewer countries stop using narrow-spectrum antibiotics, there will be fewer producers and a more vulnerable supply chain. The government has therefore been committed to ensuring supply, so that the Norwegian population has access to these central drugs. Interpellant Wilkinson is particularly concerned with the development of new antibiotics. New antibiotics and bacteriophages can provide us with useful tools that we can use for some types of infections or forms of resistance. But that unfortunately doesn't give us any confidence in the problem of resistance. It requires long-term, targeted efforts to take care of the types of antibiotics that we already have. In order to ensure access to older antibiotics, the Health Directorate recommended in February 2020 to take a closer look at the possibility of producing narrow spectrum antibiotics in Norway. We have commissioned the directorate to conduct an opportunity study by the end of 2021. The study should include, inter alia: identify national and international market conditions and assess how the production of antibiotics can be established, financed and organised in order to strengthen drug preparedness. Furthermore, conditions for sustainable production and opportunities for cooperation with other Nordic and European countries and with relevant international organisations shall be considered. We will continue the monitoring of resistant microbes in order to target interventions and research on the effectiveness of interventions. This monitoring continues to require cross-sectoral cooperation with several sectors. Technology and monitoring systems that have been further developed during the coronary apathy, such as: the sequencing capacity may generate new knowledge of the spread and presence of resistant microbes. This will also capture resistant microbes resulting from import infection. The government's ambition is to continue to be an important player in international cooperation on fundamental research, applied research and innovation. We continue to support international initiatives in the fight against antibiotic resistance, such as: Joint Programming Initiative on AMR, where Norway participates and contributes funds. We also provide funds for several programmes in the Research Council that can finance research related to antibiotic resistance. The government strengthens health preparedness through the development of new diagnostic aids, new antibiotics and alternative treatment strategies, as well as improving the security of supply of critical medicinal products. We live longer. There are more chronic diseases and more immunocompromised, more undergoing surgery, and thus more likely to develop infections requiring antibiotic treatment. These still need to be guaranteed good treatment opportunities. Norway is in a special position internationally, and we have managed to keep a low level of resistant microbes. The government's ambition is that we should continue to maintain this favorable position. The coronary apathy has shown us that preparedness for new infectious diseases must be high on the agenda in the future as well. Travel activity will resume after the coronary apathy and lead to an increased risk of importing resistant microbes. The systematic work of the government against antibiotic resistance has produced good results in the health sector, in agriculture and in the farming industry and together an important boost to climate and public health. I am pleased that there is broad political support for cross-sectoral efforts to achieve the objectives of this important area, both nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e5337	I'm scared. I'm really scared. We know it's coming. The Council of State said that we agree on the objective, but SV has promoted many proposals and has been voted down. I asked a little bit about what the government will do to make us use less antibiotics even when the pandemic is over. The Council of State said that now we're going to reach the goal. But we know that's because of the coronary apathy. It's important that it's not a bluff that we use less antibiotics. I hope that the Council of State can be a little more clear on this as well. The Council of State referred to cooperation with other countries. It wasn't very concrete. Then I just want to ask very specifically: The Danish Government granted 34 million in 2020. Danish krona for the start-up of ICARS, which is an international centre for the fight against antibiotic resistance. They cooperate with the World Bank, and the goal is approximately 300 academic staff who can move out to different countries and help tailor solutions for resistance. It is very important, as we know that many countries do not have the resources to tailor antibiotics and need to use broad-spectrum antibiotics instead. I hope the Council of State will join us in the efforts that Denmark has invited us to. It's very puzzled, what we've done in Norway. But it also pays off financially. According to the World Bank, the return on antibiotic resistance reduction is now 30–75 pst. The United Kingdom has also invited Norway to international cooperation, so I also hope that the Council of State can respond. The fight against antibiotic resistance is the most important fight in the health sector. I have asked many questions, since this case never has a single solution. It is very important that we work with other countries, as this problem is global. But we also have to act locally. Therefore, I hope that the government will work on solutions that can be used in Norway, on Norwegian soil, so that we, the richest country in the world, take responsibility and fight against antibiotic resistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e5354	It's not because of the coronary apathy that we achieve goals of reducing the use of antibiotics. This is because systematic health care work has been carried out over a long period of time before the pandemic hit, which is a result of the plans undertaken by the government in this area. It is important to underline this because it is just one of the lessons that other countries can learn from Norway, for example. that we have worked systematically against the decision-makers and with the decision-makers, so that they have received concrete guidance from other colleagues on how to reduce antibiotic use in response to patients. We have run population-oriented campaigns, so that when people come to the firm office and settle for example. says that in this situation I don't want to use antibiotics, you actually accept that answer. Not only do you accept that, we've also been told that people are now asking themselves if it's right to use antibiotics when the doctor recommends it, because the population is involved in this work. The same applies to the systematic work done in hospitals and hospitals. That's what has reduced antibiotic use. We see the same thing in agriculture. It's a systematic work. The fact that we in Norway have been willing to say that the veterinarians in agriculture are not allowed to sell medicines is of enormous importance for us to have had lower antibiotic use than many comparable countries where the veterinarians working in agriculture have an economic interest in selling antibiotics. There are models we're trying to get other countries to use. Our international commitment to this work is far from the puzzles. We are one of those countries that, together with the United Kingdom and the Conservative Government there, who have prioritised this area, have joined forces internationally to lift the fight against antibiotic resistance. It was we, health ministers from a few countries, who took the initiative to lift the threat of antibiotic resistance as a separate topic at the UN High Level Meeting to get the Heads of State involved in this issue. It was an important work that has helped to bring the World Health Organisation, together with the World Organisation for Animal Health, the World Food Organisation and the World Environment Organisations, together in this work. Norway contributes significantly financially to the coordinated work, which is precisely based on the same thinking that we have had in Norway, and which I also believe the representative agrees with, namely that this must be a cross-sectoral work. This is why we are contributing, for example: to reduce the release of antibiotics into the wild in India, to take one example.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-09.ana.ud579e5365	The interaction debate was closed. Thus, the matters on today's map are processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It's not set, and the meeting has been cancelled.
