ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e108	For the sake of infection prevention, the President proposes that the public gallery be kept closed also during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The called alternate for Eastfold, Bears Laabak, is now taking the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Centre Party Group to the representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen from 18 May until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Olav Urbø, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e137	Olav Urbø is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e144	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meeting this week – and considers it adopted. The President will propose Kari Henriksen and Svein Harberg. – Other proposals are not available, and Kari Henriksen and Svein Harberg are unanimously elected presidents for this week’s meetings. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e166	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e180	After nearly 20 years, the international military presence in Afghanistan is coming to an end. On 14 April of this year, NATO decided to terminate the military operation Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan from 1 May. Work is already in progress. Within a few months, NATO military engagement shall be terminated. Norwegian efforts in Afghanistan have been our most extensive and precious international commitment since World War II. I'll be allowed to thank you for the opportunity to give a statement on the end of NATO military operation. I would like to start by saying a little about the military contribution we have had in Afghanistan since 2002. So I'm going to say a little bit about what we've achieved in Afghanistan, and also a little bit about what we haven't done. Finally, I would like to say something about our future efforts in Afghanistan. Because even if the military operation goes to the end, we're not leaving Afghanistan. We will continue to engage in the Afghan peace process. We are continuing development aid and humanitarian work. In the autumn of 2001, there was a broad political consensus to support the US following the terrorist attack on 11 September. As early as 12 September, the UN Security Council adopted a unanimous resolution confirming the United States’ right to self-defence. On the same day, NATO concluded that the attack on the United States was to be understood as an attack on all NATO member countries. With NATO activated for the first – and so far only – time of Article 5 of the Atlantic Charter on collective defence. Shortly after, in October 2001, the United States and the United Kingdom began Operation Renewing Freedom. The aim was to remove Al Qaida, fight the Taliban and prevent Afghanistan from becoming a starting point for terrorist attacks against Western countries. The Stoltenberg government signalled early Norwegian support for US actions to combat terrorism. Following the change of government in the same harvest, the Bondevik II government decided that Norway would join the US-led operation. The first Norwegian forces were deployed in Afghanistan at the turn of the year 2001–2002. These were special forces, miners and explosives specialists. During the first year, Norway also sent transport aircraft and fighter aircraft. Although the military efforts against Al Qaida were successful and the Taliban regime fell within a few months, it was early understood that the fight against terrorist groups alone would not guarantee a stable Afghanistan. The focus was therefore shifted to stabilisation and state building. The goal was to build an Afghanistan that did not give ground for new terrorism. This was important for both NATO and Norway’s efforts. The International Security Assistance Force, better known as ISAF, was initially a coalition force mandated by the United Nations to contribute to international peace and security. NATO assumed responsibility for ISAF in 2003. Mostly, about 50 countries contributed to the ISAF force. 21 of these were not NATO members. This meant that a quarter of the world’s country was involved in supporting the efforts of the Afghan authorities to create stability and development. Both Operation Enduring Freedom and ISAF were subsequently given the basis of their respective offices in agreement with the Afghan authorities. An important development was the creation of a number of Provincial Reconstruction Teams, known as PRTs. Norway was responsible for the PRT in Maimana in the Faryab province from 2005 until 2012. The PRTs were a new way of conducting military operations, where close coordination with civil actors was central. The aim was to support the development and security work in the provinces. It was also strengthening central government control over these areas. Training of Afghan security forces has gradually become a key priority for NATO. Norway was at an early stage of this work. From 2010 to 2011, Norwegian participation in fighting operations was reduced and the focus was shifted to capacity building. The objective of ISAF was to build up Afghan capacity and ownership with a view to gradually transferring responsibilities to the Afghan authorities. As of 2014, the Norwegian military presence was concentrated in Kabul. In 2015, NATO's efforts in Afghanistan moved into a new phase. On 31 December 2014, the ISAF team was wound up and the responsibility for security was formally transferred to Afghan security forces. The idea was that the Afghans should now take greater responsibility for their own security. NATO also set up the Resolute Support Mission to advise, train and assist Afghan forces. Today, the Norwegian contribution is made up of special forces who train and guide Afghan special forces. We also have a Norwegian sanitary contribution and a field hospital in Kabul. In total, these forces represent less than 100 persons. This morning I had a video meeting with the Norwegian soldiers in Kabul, both the special forces and those working in the field hospital. Norwegian staff do an impressive job in a demanding situation. I got an update on how they evaluate the situation in Kabul. It is unpredictable, but Norwegian forces have good plans to ensure their own safety. The Special Force also gave its assessments of the Afghan special forces that they have trained for the last 14 years. The Afghan forces are now able to solve tasks independently and will be an important piece in the Afghan security forces in the future. The defence has been in Afghanistan for nearly 20 years – from Kandahar in the south to Mazar-e-Sharif in the north. All parts of the Defense have contributed: the Army, the Air Force, the Maritime Defense, the Special Forces, the Defence Sanitation, the Home Guard and the Intelligence Service. A total of about 9 200 Northmen have served in Afghanistan. The defense's women and men have solved the mission they've been given in an exemplary way. We are proud of our soldiers. They have gained considerable recognition both outdoors and at home and are known for their professionalism and integrity. Norwegian soldiers have contributed to many international operations in the last decades, but the mission in Afghanistan has been one of the most risky we have participated in. The soldiers have had to make good decisions under strong pressure. They've made that clear. We have heard many stories about situations where our soldiers have got fellow soldiers, Afghan partners and civilians out of dangerous situations with little use of violence. That so many Norwegian soldiers have been decorated for their efforts in Afghanistan is evidence of this. The defense has also learned a lot. A whole generation of soldiers have been trained in sharp situations. They have come back with valuable expertise on, among other things, crisis management and leadership. This is experience that they have taken home and that is used further in the development of the Defence. But the Norwegian military effort has also cost. We know we're taking a big risk when we send soldiers out on dangerous missions. But someone has paid a higher price than others. Ten soldiers have taken up service for Norway in Afghanistan. These ten are: Tommy Rødningsby Tor Arne Lau-Henriksen Kristoffer Sørli Jørgensen Trond Petter Kolset Claes Joachim Olsson Andreas Eldjarn Simen Tokle Christian Lian Trond André Bolle Siri Skare We will always be deeply grateful for their efforts. Norwegian civil life has also been lost. The Norwegian doctor Egil Kristian Tynæs was killed while he was doing humanitarian work for Doctors Without Borders. Journalist Carsten Thomassen lost his life at work in Afghanistan on behalf of Dagbladet. Many Nordics have been working in Afghanistan for the last 20 years – many under very difficult conditions. This applies, inter alia, to: diplomats and those with a job in the field of justice, inter alia: Lawyers, police and prison staff. These have been an important part of Norwegian efforts in Afghanistan. Many Norwegians have also worked in aid organisations and humanitarian organisations or covered the conflict as journalists. For some, the effort is still expensive. Several of those serving in Afghanistan were seriously injured. Some have severe aftereffects, both physical and mental. We've learned a lot from the mistakes that were made against veterans from previous operations, against those who didn't get any follow-up afterwards. Therefore, during the last decade a great deal of work has been done to care for our veterans both before, during and after the mission. Good arrangements have been put in place, including: better organisation of families, good compensation schemes and increased competence in civil auxiliaries. We're going to continue to take care of our veterans. In parallel with military engagement, Norway has contributed significant funds and efforts to the development of Afghan society. Since 2001, we've spent over 12 billion. in long-term aid and humanitarian aid. There has been a broad, cross-political consensus on this priority. Long-term exposure objectives and priorities in Afghanistan have been relatively firm under changing governments. These have been contributing to increased security and stability, improving governance – with a focus on democracy, human rights and equality – and strengthening social and economic development. Norway’s assistance has been coordinated with the international donor community, the UN and the World Bank. Afghan priorities have been highlighted. Despite the ongoing conflict, assistance has contributed to social development and the gradual development of government structures. These now supply electricity, water and roads to several parts of the population. Schools and health care have been expanded. In 2002, less than 1 million Afghan children went to school. Today, between 9 and 10 million children go to school. Almost 40 pst. There are girls. In the same period, the number of schools has increased from around 3000 to over 16 000. Among Norway's contributions is the financing of 27 school buildings in the Faryab province. School buildings are built with satisfactory sanitary facilities and with high walls around them, so that Afghan parents feel safe to send their children — including their daughters — to school. Today, Afghanistan is improving several development indicators that have an impact on the quality of life of the population. Among other things, child mortality has almost halved since 2001. It is still high, but the trend is still downward. The number of women who die in childbirth is also still high, but are almost halved. Other health indicators have also improved significantly. Several have access to clean water and electricity. Afghanistan has also taken important steps towards a democratic system, with a constitution based on human rights. There is an active civil society in parts of the country. Media poses critical questions to both authorities and other actors in Afghan society. At the same time, we must recognise that in important areas, we have not achieved the objectives we set for aid to Afghanistan. It is unfortunately far from being a stable state and a peaceful, democratic society. We have to recognise that state construction is a demanding task as long as there is conflict. There are still significant democratic shortcomings in the Afghan regime. The choices have been marked by great weaknesses. The conflict with the Taliban and other rebel groups in society has played a negative role. Although the Constitution gives women and minorities equal rights, the reality of very many women is violence, oppression and limited freedom. It is worrying that the number of killed journalists and human rights activists is increasing. There have also been attacks on bureaucrats, judges, health and health workers. The challenges of corruption and poor Afghan ownership have also been great. Afghanistan remains fully dependent on international development assistance. The so-called Godal report on the response in Afghanistan, which came in 2016, refers to the perceived good principles of assistance, but also to the reported results. As stated in the report: ‘The results are rather weak compared to the huge amounts of aid used in Afghanistan. A traditional diet-benefit perspective does not give a positive picture.’ In 2017, Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende, who was at Stortinget, acknowledged that we were entering ‘with high ambitions. Some have been too high’. We can repeat that today. In some areas, international assistance has also been counterproductive. The large cash flows have contributed to corruption and thus hinder development. Afghanistan has put in place good legislation on corruption, but there is a difference between legislation and practice. In the Transparency lnternational corruption index, Afghanistan is at 173rd place of 198 countries. As I said at the outset, we will continue our civil engagement in Afghanistan. Afghanistan will need long-term assistance. We will continue to be an important and long-term partner, so how can we ensure that assistance in the future is used correctly? At the November 2020 donor country conference, Norway committed up to 650 million. NOK 2021. We also said that we will evaluate a corresponding level over the next three years. At the same time, our assistance is conditional on the fulfilment by Afghan authorities of their obligations, in particular their efforts to reduce corruption. It is important that Norwegian funds are used responsibly. Therefore, most of our assistance is channelled through funds managed by the World Bank and the United Nations, and through organisations with good follow-up and control procedures. We support projects that contribute to the strengthening of human rights, including for women, the fight against corruption, increased industrial development and job creation in rural areas, and education, especially for girls. We want to do what we can to help ensure that the progress achieved over the last 20 years is not reversed. This applies in particular to women’s rights, girls’ right to education and the inclusion of ethnic and religious minorities. At the same time, we have to expect certain setbacks. A lot of people want to ask, why are we pulling out now? One important lesson from Afghanistan is that the conflict cannot be resolved militarily. Nearly 20 years of military efforts have not yet resulted in a peace settlement. Mostly there were 130,000 foreign soldiers in Afghanistan. At the same time, the Taliban continued to strengthen its position. Changing Norwegian governments have said that a peace settlement must be created between the parties in Afghanistan. This process must be managed by Afghans and must also be carried out by Afghans themselves. We're not there right now. At the same time, it is difficult to claim that an extended military presence will bring us closer to a peace settlement. Staying on a permanent basis is not an option. This was the background for the launch of negotiations with the United States of America with the Taliban, which resulted in the Doha Agreement in February 2020. The agreement provided for the withdrawal of US and international forces and for peace negotiations between the Taliban and the Afghan Republic. The goal was to get movement in the locked-up political trail. There was also a recognition there from the American side that the Taliban had to be part of a future political solution. Throughout the military engagement, it has been an important principle on the Norwegian side that we have joined our allies in making adjustments together and drawing ourselves together. When the United States so clearly signaled that they wanted to end their military engagement and contribution in Afghanistan, it was quite natural that NATO decided the same thing. At the same time, I shall be honest with you that there is a significant risk of withdrawing before there is a peace agreement between the Afghan parties. The extraction may result in other conflicts coming to the surface. ISIL and other armed groups could become more active. There is a danger of increased levels of violence. Stability is already fragile. It is therefore important that we continue to support the Afghan peace process and continue our civil commitment. It is in the interest of Norway and NATO to continue a significant civil engagement in Afghanistan. It is an important signal to the authorities and the population. If the current governance structures break down, we face serious humanitarian challenges. This, in turn, will be able to create new refugee and migration flows. A political solution is a prerequisite for lasting peace. It is the Afghans themselves who own the peace process and must continue it. But we can contribute by supporting and facilitating. Norway has not had a formal role in the Doha negotiations, but through an active Norwegian peace diplomacy and early contact with the Taliban, we have helped to prepare the basis for the Doha peace talks. We've been to Doha after Qatar's invitation. We have promoted views on fundamental issues of human rights, religious tolerance and the role of women in society. We have been clear to the Taliban that in order for a negotiated solution to be possible, the movement must change much of the policy they have pursued in the past. We are constantly trying to contribute to the inclusion of these considerations in the negotiations. Norway has wide international support in this work. The developments in the Doha negotiations have confirmed what we were prepared for: it is very challenging, and not least time-consuming, for the parties to reach agreement on a final peace settlement. This is an experience from other peace processes as well. We will maintain dialogue with both the Afghan parties and support the peace process even if the further road is long and continues to be violent. Afghanistan’s neighbours also have a significant responsibility to contribute to positive development. Historically, many of Afghanistan’s challenges have resulted from regional power games. Norway has been a driver of dialogue and cooperation between the countries of the region on peace in Afghanistan. It is important that neighbouring countries use their influence to support the process and the willingness of the parties to compromise, not least the Taliban. It will also be of great importance for the development of wealth in the country if Afghanistan could be better integrated into the regional economy. Norway has been given a special responsibility in the Security Council to follow up the situation in Afghanistan through the so-called Penneführer role. We do that together with Estonia in 2021. Our knowledge of the parties to the conflict gives us good prospects for being a constructive actor that can contribute to common solutions. Together with the other members of the Council, we are working to clarify the premise for the UN's further involvement. We also work for a broad consensus on how the UN and international society can best support in the peace process and the political processes. The continuing involvement of the UN in the country is very important. Significant international support will be important for the implementation of any peace settlement. The government is clear on the objective of maintaining a high level of development assistance and humanitarian aid in the coming years as well. At the same time, our support depends on development. If the Taliban takes power by means of violence, we will not be able to support such a regime. If the Taliban comes to power through a negotiated peace settlement, we will have to make a concrete assessment of the basis on which such an Afghan government structure is based. It is too early to say what an Afghanistan with the Taliban would look like in any power position. The Taliban has a view of value and society that we do not share. At the same time, they have not clearly communicated how they want to organise Afghan society if they come into a governance position. This applies, inter alia, to: the question of women's rights. In the last 20 years, the level of education and skills in Afghanistan has increased significantly. It is today a generation that has grown up with a greater degree of freedom, and Afghan society is quite different today from when the Taliban was in power. This must also be the case with the Taliban if they become part of the future government apparatus. Now that we are finishing NATO military operation in Afghanistan, we are highly focused on the safety of Norwegian personnel in Kabul. Following the agreement concluded with the United States, the Taliban has committed its attacks on international military and civil targets. At the same time, there is a concern that the movement will no longer feel obliged to such a restraint after the original military extraction end date, which was 1 May. This means that international military forces and civil actors can come into a more vulnerable position. The military forces have implemented self-protection security measures. We also have an ongoing assessment of the security of our embassy personnel in this critical phase. We are prepared to take the necessary steps to ensure the safety of our employees at the embassy if the situation so requires. The safety of our employees has the highest priority. From the Norwegian side, we have been clear in NATO about the need for an extraction of international forces to take place in an orderly manner. We want as much as possible to stick to NATO's plans for a coordinated extraction. Norway is responsible for the field hospital at the airport in Kabul. This is a capacity that is important for all NATO forces and for the international presence. Norway is therefore going to be among the last to withdraw. There is still a high level of violence in large parts of Afghanistan. This particularly affects civilian Afghans. We receive almost daily reports of extensive acts of violence. Some are very shocking. The attack that hit a school in Kabul on 8 May, where almost 100 people were killed, very many of them schoolgirls, is unfortunately just one of several examples of civilians being hit very hard by the ongoing conflict. The safety picture in Kabul is demanding and can be exacerbated by the extraction of allied forces. Norway plans for continued diplomatic presence in Kabul. However, this presupposes that the security of the staff of the embassy can be ensured. Many years of good work in support of the development of Afghanistan has created a political capital we should seek to safeguard. What kind of structures remain to ensure the international presence is not yet clarified, whether Norway will in any way play a role in this. We will take care of local employees who have worked for Norwegian civil or military authorities, who are in an exposed security situation. It is now working to assess the situation and practical solutions. We perceive that we have a responsibility for ensuring that those who have worked for Norway do not get into a difficult safety situation. We will also cooperate with other NATO countries, if necessary, to support other groups that have worked for the NATO operation. Finally, I would like to thank all the 9 200 Norwegian soldiers who have made an effort in Afghanistan. Following the US attack on 11 September 2001, NATO activated Article 5 on collective defence of the alliance member country for the first time. The ISAF team had a mandate from the UN Security Council. Eventually, the operations also received the agreement of the Afghan authorities. In other words, there has been widespread international expansion of operations in Afghanistan. Also in this room there has been a broad uproar. The size has, among other things, discussed a statement on the transition from ISAF to RSM in 2014. In 2017, there was a major treatment of the NOU from the Godal Committee. I am pleased to have been given the opportunity to explain also now in connection with the completion of NATO's operation. After almost 20 years, we've learned some lessons. One of them is that it is very difficult to create a peace process with military instruments. Right now there are few good solutions. So even if the military operation goes to its end, we – Norway – do not end our commitment. We will continue to contribute both through peace diplomacy and support for negotiations between the Afghan parties. Norway shall continue to contribute financially, through long-term capacity building, assistance and humanitarian aid. But this requires that it is possible, and that the solutions that are gradually emerging are in line with our principles and our priorities. Continued international support is essential to ensure that the progress achieved is not reversed. We must be prepared for a difficult period in Afghanistan in the future. The Afghans themselves must find the way to a solution. However, both the neighbouring country of Afghanistan and the international community have a responsibility to contribute constructively.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e328	According to Storting’s Rules of Procedure § 45, the President will now open a short comment round limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and final statements from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e333	I thank the Prime Minister for the presentation. In a debate on Norway’s efforts in Afghanistan, it is right to start by thanking deeply the thousands of Norwegian women and men, with and without uniform, from the Defence, Foreign Service and humanitarian organisations who have served in and made an effort for Afghanistan. Many in our country have been committed to Afghanistan for generations. That's an engagement we're going to take care of. So this is also an occasion, especially for me on behalf of the previous government and here in the Grand Duchy, to remember and honor the Northmen who lost their lives in Afghanistan, from the Defence, media and civil activities – those who were injured, and those who struggle with the impressions and experiences of duty time. We'll be with you. In the autumn of 2001, it was right to engage militarily in Afghanistan. 20 years ago, Norway, as it is today, sat in the UN Security Council. On 12 September 2001, the Security Council unanimously agreed that the terrorist attacks against the United States the day before posed a threat to international peace and security. On the same day, a unanimous North Atlantic Council – including with Norway around the table – triggered Article 5 of the NATO Pact on one for all, for the first and last time in NATO’s history. So for the autumn it is 20 years since the first Norwegian soldiers arrived in Afghanistan. We have contributed as part of the NATO community. The Norwegian line has been in with allies, out with allies. That's a proper approximation. Norway is a reliable ally, and our mission has also been anchored in clear and repeated decisions of the UN Security Council. At the same time, the two decades that have passed have also given us many important lessons about the limitations of military intervention – what a military mission can accomplish, and where it comes down to. It is right to point out that as a result of the international military operation, Afghanistan has not become the starting point for attack or terror, as Al Qaida carried out in 2001. We have succeeded. But we have also experienced the obvious limitations of fighting other people's wars, or building legitimacy around a state's regime based on foreign military forces. There is no solution other than for Afghans to find the way forward for Afghanistan. We can support the development of both civil, military and political capabilities. But the political responsibility must be borne by Afghans, even though it may be so difficult. Norway was early off, all the way back in 2007, to discuss talks and negotiations between representative Afghan groups, and that it was also right to include the Taliban. It was then both controversial and controversial, but it was true even if negotiations with rebel groups led to a wide range of important counter-arguments and dilemmas. It's important to learn from our foreign operations. In 2016, the Godal Committee presented its report on Norway in Afghanistan. We have received a similar evaluation of the 2011 Libya operation. The Workers' Party's position is that independent evaluations of major military foreign missions should now be established practice. A natural next step is an evaluation of Norway’s participation in the ISIL coalition. These types of reports are important both for learning and for creating the best possible and most open public debate on important issues in Norwegian foreign and security policy. Finally, the way forward for Afghanistan will be demanding. The very highest price of the conflict has been paid by Afghans themselves – all those who have been killed, injured or driven on the run. It is still important for regional and international security that Afghanistan does not sink into conflict, lawlessness and oppression, that it does not once again become an impasse and a haven for terrorist groups that can also hit countries like ours. However, it is true that the international military involvement that has remained for 20 years is now terminated. The alternative had been obligating presence for a long time to come. Afghanistan must be included in regional and international cooperation, its neighbours must assume their responsibilities, and we must also continue to support its development, as outlined by the Prime Minister. I agree with that, not least in areas like health and education, where we have achieved a lot. And we must be clear in our expectations of respect for human rights, women's rights and democratic principles. It is also right that we take special responsibility for the Afghans who have been in the service of Norway and who may be exposed to the present situation. Overall, we need to do our part in order for new generations of Afghans to see a future in their own country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e354	I want to start by thanking the Prime Minister for a thorough and reflective presentation. I don't at all think it was interesting with the principles she used for the further engagement, because if the military presence escalates sharply, to almost nothing, for something remains, the international community will have a great interest in development further. We also have to be careful to assume responsibility for the forces that have been said quite correctly here must build that country further. It must be the internal resources that have also been created during these 20 years. There is a tendency to forget which Afghanistan, on a broad international mandate, was introduced in its time. It was a Taliban government that used Kabul's central football stadium for public executions. Today and for a longer time, there has been a place where sports are going on. Despite a difficult safety situation, at least the stadium is used for what it should, and women are also found on the spectator bench, not to talk about on the road. Much of Afghanistan’s future also depends on the fact that the Taliban itself has undergone a change. When some of us from the Foreign Affairs Committee were in Kabul in 2019, it was a major unsolved issue, which unfortunately has not been clearly clarified with the Doha negotiations either, whether the Taliban, once recognised as a party to the peace negotiations, will respect the constitutional frameworks that have been built up, properly in a state that is fragile, but that facilitates a peaceful exchange of power. They've been unclear. One can hope that they see themselves served by legitimizing an internal government not by violence, but by respecting the principles of peaceful takeover according to the will of the people. I am pleased that the Prime Minister was so clear on the security situation of the Norwegian forces to be demobilised, and on the thoughts of the Norwegian embassy staff and those who are still to represent Norway and Western interests over there. I also think it was very appropriate to dwell so much on the moral obligations of our scientific policy, in the gratitude of the people who have borne the greatest personal losses – the ten lives of the uniformed forces of ours and also additional representatives of the media and non-governmental organisations who have lost their lives, who have only been there to drive humanitarian handshake. It is a great moral obligation for Norway both to take care of its relatives and to develop a veterinary policy that takes account of this moral imperative. Furthermore, I am pleased that such emphasis is placed on the need for further involvement in Afghanistan to be based on conditionality, i.e. conditions for future involvement. The international community has set up, first by liberating this country from a medieval clergy, then by preventing it from becoming a marching area for Al Qaida. It has not been possible to calculate in any scale the impact of the absence of terrorism in the world community, even though we saw what a successful terrorist attack could accomplish in September 2001. This conditionality means that one continues to engage, more in the humanistic, but also in the social building, through the World Bank and through the international institutions that one can hope to be able to connect to a future government that can best respect the constitutional framework already laid down, and thus civilizes the various parties in what has been a deep-seated civil war. We have shown Norway's international solidarity. It was said that there have been 130 000 forces, there have been UN mandates, and there have been 50 countries involved, 21 of which are not in NATO. So it's not the West's operation. There has been the operation of the world community in a difficult area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e369	I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for a thorough presentation. But first of all, on behalf of the Advancement Party, I would like to express my reverential thanks to those who have given their lives on mission in Afghanistan. I also want to express my deepest compassion for the relatives and their families. In 2016, the Head of the Afghanistan Committee, Bjørn Tore Godal, presented a report on all aspects of Norway’s involvement in Afghanistan. It was a clear verdict: with our participation we had not achieved the goals we had set. It's easy to be a follow-up clock, but you could think about a little bit earlier. In the March 2017 debate in Stortinget, I said: ‘The war in Afghanistan is becoming one of the longest in history. So the conclusion is obvious: we can't go on as we suggest. We have to think differently, and we have to act differently. We have to figure out a way out." We didn't. We continued as before. One of the clear advices of the Afghanistan Committee was that Norway should not engage in state building, development and security on a larger scale – that is, the opposite of what the Prime Minister said in this speech. The progress party will warn against the development that we get into a fence that makes us never get out, that we're trying to do something we're not qualified to do, and that the Afghans have to do on their own, which was also the case with Michael Tetzschner and Jonas Gahr Støre. The selection also underlined that Norwegian military intervention in conflict areas must include an exit strategy, be limited in time and measurable for mission purposes. The intention to intervene in Afghanistan was to combat an international evil while at the same time defending Norwegian security. The NATO countries entered Afghanistan with the aim of putting those responsible for the terrorist attack in New York. NATO has reached that goal. The leader of Al Qaida, Osama bin Laden, was killed by allied forces in Pakistan in 2011, and his direct co-pilots are too long killed or taken prisoner. At that time, NATO countries could have pulled out their forces and declared their victory. The pursuit of terrorists quickly developed into a large-scale commitment to building a new democratic Afghan state. It was incarcerated, and it's incarcerated. The Afghanistan Committee further concluded that militant Islamic groups still had footholds in the country and that the Taliban was stronger than ever since 2001. The number of Afghans killed may be over 100 000. 3 500 international soldiers are dead, including 10 Norwegian soldiers. Despite the conclusions of the Afghanistan Committee, NATO's involvement continued as before, and the number of Norwegian soldiers and other personnel was kept at the same level. In 2018–2019 there were 60 soldiers in the Resolute Support Mission. In 2021 there were 100 soldiers and other personnel and sanitation contributions as well. The Godal report was put in a drawer and forgotten. Rarely has a government-appointed sample been so clear that such a comprehensive international mission has failed. The committee even states in the first sentence: ‘After many years of international action, the situation in Afghanistan is discouraging.’ The exposure objective is not reached. The war strengthens NATO, and it's too far well and good, but it doesn't say anything about NATO's ability to fight the enemy. One of Norway’s objectives was to build a stable and democratic state through long-term assistance and peace diplomacy. It's not achieved. The Afghanistan Committee even concluded that Norway did not make a significant difference. In 2016, the estimated cost of the international exposure was close to 5000 billion. kr, or about four Norwegian State budgets. Until 2016, Norway had used nearly 20 billion. kr, of which 11.5 bn. kr on military efforts. If we choose to participate in a war, the goal must be clearly communicated. The majority must be informed and involved, and participation must be anchored in the Norwegian people. A clear objective must be established and the operation of the targets must be avoided. Now we see that operation in the targets is exactly what happens. It is also a paradox that while we send our young, well-trained men and women out to war in Afghanistan, many of the country's own young men and women travel to our country to seek protection from war. After all, Afghanistan's own young people should have a self-interest in creating peace and good living conditions in their own country. It should even be a duty. With such a hindrance, it must be natural to ask the following questions: What was the mandate of military engagement in Afghanistan, and why did it change along the way? When you talk about women's rights, you might say that it's gotten better for women in Afghanistan – yes, a little, but in relation to what you can expect after 20 years of war, it's discouraging.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e406	Thanks to the Prime Minister for a thorough analysis of both the situation and what the government is planning to do in the future. On behalf of the Center Party, I would also like to extend a great deal of thanks to all those who have participated from Norway in Afghanistan, both military and civil, and especially to the families who have lost one of theirs – those who have paid the highest price by giving their lives in battles, and their families who have lost someone they were happy about. Many of our veterans have deep injuries, both physical and mental, and there's been an enormous effort on the part of Norway. It's important to stress it, even if you can be critical of the results, because there's been a lot of work done by the people our country has sent out. And we're proud of that effort. Previous speakers gave some taste buds from the Afghanistan Committee, or the Godal Committee, which gave a thorough analysis of the Norwegian contribution to Afghanistan. We shouldn't stay too much at it today, now we're going to discuss more about what's going on in the future. Nevertheless, it is important to point out, as the Prime Minister did, that building peace and democracy through military intervention has proved extremely difficult. We've seen it in Afghanistan, we've seen it in Iraq, and we've seen it in Libya -- building stable democracy in the war zone has proved almost impossible. The Godal selection also fixed it. War documents undermine the foundations of economic and social development, threaten the results achieved and weaken the possibilities for building a stable functioning state power on a democratic basis, they wrote in the first section of the report that came in 2017. We need to learn from that. We have to learn that we have to have an exit strategy before we go into such military actions with allies. But what now? The war in Afghanistan has cost a lot both economically and humanly. What can Norway do to help ensure that all hope for peace and a better life does not go away for the hard tried Afghan people? Although the results after 20 years are discouraging, there are also some highlights: more have been trained, more girls have been trained, women are more visible and have been corrected, they will lose power as soon as the Taliban gets power. It's a fragile civil society, but it's also institutions that are worth building on. The Taliban has agreed to negotiate with NATO and the United States. It also gives Norway the opportunity to influence. Civil society must be protected. Even if we go out of Afghanistan militarily, along with our allies, it is no less important that we participate in the further construction of the country. The young people who have been trained must be the root of an aid project aimed at building institutions, developing jobs, building a community. In this way, the Central Party is satisfied with the Prime Minister's clear emphasis that Norway will also contribute development assistance and humanitarian aid. But first, the United States and NATO must say clearly no to an Islamic emirate. If the Taliban wins and gets controlled by sharialover, what is built up will quickly be torn down. And the Prime Minister was also very clear that there are Norwegian aid seats. The Taliban must be part of a political solution, but not a solution. We don't have to get back to where football stadium was used for public executions. But football stadiums can be used for games and peaceful sports matches. Sending Norwegian soldiers into war is one of the most important and difficult decisions one can take, and it has far-reaching consequences – perhaps more far-reaching than our elected powers can foresee. For example, in 2001, no one could predict how long the conflict in Afghanistan would last or what the consequences would be. The truth is, there is hardly anyone who sees it very clearly today either. Being around military forces is not an option today. But the Central Party will strongly support the fact that Norway is committed to further building the Afghan society, we have a responsibility for it. It is the Afghan people who must show way, but they need us, and they need international solidarity to be closed. And I'm glad that the Prime Minister clearly stresses that Norway is going to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e429	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his presentation. I would also like to join the Prime Minister's thanks to the Norwegian women and men who have participated militarily and civilly in Afghanistan. It is a profound thanks that we are all behind, and as I think it is important to stress that we gather, regardless of views on the military contributions in Afghanistan. We, too, who have been against them, need to join in and also the cross-political responsibility we have to take care of our veterans in the years to come. It's a right decision to extract the soldiers, but it's also a decision that should have been made before. The arguments presented today could have been used 5 years ago, they could have been used 10 years ago, yes, they could have been used to a great extent, and were probably also, used to say no to even sending Norwegian soldiers to Afghanistan almost 20 years ago. And if one looks back today, as several have been involved, on the summary of the Godal Committee, they were interested in finding out if three different goals had been achieved: first, what was about the relationship with the United States and NATO, being a good ally, second, international counter-terrorism, and third, state-building and development. They came to the conclusion that only the first was reached, and just being a good ally for the United States and NATO we must be able to say that has been an important reason for the Norwegian commitment all the way. It is also illustrated by the way this happens, that the presence that was imperative until now is no longer the moment that the United States has decided to withdraw. I have looked at the minutes of the big meeting on 5 December 2001. That was the day the Stortinget discussed and also had a vote over the first Norwegian military contribution to Afghanistan. There are not so many here in the Chamber who were present then, but the Prime Minister was well, and I was, and it's thoughtful to look at that record, both because much of the debate is marked by totally unrealistic expectations of what one could achieve when, for example. on democracy development and counter-terrorism, and also on how pervasive the expectation that this would be a short transition was. The arguments against: SV proposed the following proposals on the day: ‘The majority does not agree to Norwegian forces being put at the disposal of military operations in Afghanistan under the command of the United States of America.’ Only the SV voted in favour of the proposal. The arguments were, of course, very many of the same ones that are being presented today: it is difficult to imagine a military solution to the problems in Afghanistan, the risk that instead of combating the terrorism of the Taliban, it could give it new nourishment, etc. Already in 2008-2009, there was a lot of debate in Norway about these things. SV also raised the debate on the Afghanistan contribution, with the same types of questions that we are discussing today. A peace process was necessary, we thought. It was hard to imagine a Western military solution. But what's been going on throughout these years is that it's been viewed as impossible to stand out, because there would be a setback. Now we're getting out, even though the Prime Minister expects a setback, simply because, as she says, an extended military presence won't bring us any closer to a solution. That's true, but unfortunately it's been true for many years. I hope that the debate we have now will mark an end to the intervention policy of which Norway has also been a part, and which has shaped many Western countries in the last twenty years. Afternoon clocks do not correct things, but afternoon clocks can still be important for learning. As others have pointed out, it is very clear from these experiences that democracy cannot be built with foreign weapons. Nor should it be the task of the Norwegian defence to participate in the wars of the United States around the world. In 2001, Afghanistan had been forgotten by the West for many years. Our big challenge now is to make sure it doesn't get like that again. That is why we must have a real and binding plan for further Norwegian involvement. We must have a real cross-political responsibility for our veterans. And then I would like to encourage the government to look at refugee policy, where there is now forced repatriation of Afghans for internal refugees in Kabul, and ask whether it is a good contribution in a difficult situation for Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e456	I would also like to start by thanking the Prime Minister for the briefing – and also thanking the 9 200 Norwegian soldiers who have served in Afghanistan, and especially the 10 who have lost their lives in service to Norway. Everyone gave something, and someone gave everything. I also think it is important to remember that there is a lot that has not been achieved. Afghanistan is at war, and it is a war that will continue to escalate, but, as the Prime Minister also pointed out, millions of Afghans have had an opportunity they would not otherwise have received through school and through the developments that have taken place in Afghanistan. We're also going to take that side with us, while recognizing that there have been many errors in the operations in Afghanistan. The important thing now is to look forward. The war's not over. It is still the case that the Afghan army, or the police, loses 200-300 soldiers every month. There are at least a few hundred civilians being killed every single month. There is a situation in which the warlords once again establish themselves, and there are also groups of people who again arm themselves in Afghanistan. So now it's important to look forward. When NATO closes its military presence, it must not mean that the world is turning its back on the situation in Afghanistan. On the contrary – we must show presence and have a strategy ahead. I'm probably one of those people who's not sure if what's being done is right. The conclusion of an agreement with the Taliban, as we did in February 2020, with a clear timetable for their withdrawal, has not led to the cessation of the conflict. As a result, the situation in Afghanistan has not calmed down. I am not sure if it is right to set a timetable now – as the new Biden administration has done – until 11 September. The strengths of Afghanistan will need support even after 11 September of this year. It is not a criticism of what Norway is doing. We went in with NATO. We have to go out with NATO. And we've been doing our tasks in an exemplary way in the years we've been in Afghanistan. But we also need to look at how and what strategy we have chosen. As stated by the Prime Minister and others, Norway had early contact with the Taliban and has been involved in establishing a contact where peace talks have also been held. Before this presentation, I reread the book to our leading pashtun expert, professor and anthropologist Fredrik Barth, Afghanistan and the Taliban, from 2008, where he writes, and recommends, and I also thought a lot about it at that time: ‘There shall not be a channel’ — then Mulla Omar — ‘so that requirements and offers can be broken down in a long dialogue with the hope of reaching a binding peace agreement at the end. Because we never get any such agreement. On the other hand, I would argue that negotiations with the Taliban should be conducted at as low a level as possible, dealing with just one thing: getting the other party to change sides. Such negotiations may be understood and used to by Pashtuners and shall be conducted with all and each of them.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e477	I think that is a wise approach, and I think it is important that we continue to support under Afghan leadership today in order to develop and build up support in Afghanistan in the future. And if it would also have to involve military support, we should also support it – even if it is not with Norwegian forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e480	I would first like to thank Prime Minister Solberg for a thorough and honest account of a situation that we would like to see changed. It is strong, after a unique national day celebration at home, to realize that after 20 years of considerable effort, we are not closer to a good peace settlement for Afghanistan. We've learned a lot, and something has been in vain. An extended military presence probably didn't bring us what we want either, it's really an old lesson about the horror and risk of the war. The Christian People's Party therefore shares the allied conclusion that remaining militarily is not an alternative, but that most other methods now need to be used and targeted carefully further. There was broad political agreement to support the United States following the September 11 terrorist attack. The UN Security Council adopted a unanimous resolution confirming that the attack was to be understood as an attack on all NATO Member States. Article 5 was used. Both the Stoltenberg government and the subsequent Bondevik II government held fast to Norway joining the NATO alliance to remove Al Qaida and combat the Taliban. It has been an important principle from the Norwegian side that we have joined our allies and are moving out together. All Norwegian governments have said that a peace settlement must be managed by Afghan and must be created between the parties to the conflict in the country. Unfortunately, we are not there now, as the Prime Minister said. The first Norwegian forces were deployed at the turn of the year 2001–2002. The objective was rapidly extended to stabilisation and state-building as well as the fight against terrorist groups. Both Operation Renewing Freedom and ISAF were given the basis of the law by the Afghan authorities. Norway was also at an early stage in the training and capacity building of Afghan forces under the NATO regime with a view to gradually transferring responsibilities. All parts of the Norwegian defence have contributed. More than 9,000 Nordics, women and men, have served and gained recognition and are to be honored for their professionalism and integrity. The effort has been risky, and many have paid a high price, some by losing their lives. We are deeply grateful for the efforts of their families and relatives. The worry about the loss of life is that of the whole nation. The Christian People's Party is particularly pleased that the government and the Stortinget have recently improved the vete situation for the pressures that arise after the efforts of the big community have imposed on them. Facilitation of families, good compensation arrangements, extension of deadlines and increased competence in civil auxiliaries are important improvements, and the Christian People's Party will continue to follow this. In parallel with military engagement, Norway has contributed significant resources to the development of Afghan society, with more than 12 billion. kr. The aim has been to increase security and stability, improve governance with a focus on democracy, human rights and equality. Norway’s assistance has been coordinated with the international donor community, and Afghan priorities have focused on electricity, water, roads, schools and health care. It's incredibly good that the number of schoolchildren has increased ten times, and almost 40 pst. There are girls. The number of schools is more than fivefold. Afghanistan has also taken important steps towards a democratic constitution based on human rights. It is sad that important areas have not improved, as the targets were. It is not a stable state and a peaceful, democratic society. The elections have been uneven, and conflicts with the Taliban have marked the work. The Constitution gives women and minorities equal rights, but reality is violence, oppression and limited freedom. Afghanistan is therefore still completely dependent on international development assistance, both economically and politically. Our assistance must be conditional on the fulfilment by the Afghan authorities of their obligations, in particular their efforts to reduce widespread corruption. Norwegian funds must be channelled and targeted with good follow-up and control procedures. The Christian People's Party therefore supports projects that contribute to the strengthening of human rights, the fight against corruption, increased industrial development and education, especially for girls. We must contribute to the further development of the progress that, after all, has been achieved in the last 20 years. One important lesson from Afghanistan is that the conflict cannot be resolved militarily. Nearly 20 years of military intervention have not resulted in a peace settlement. Many of Afghanistan’s challenges are the result of regional power games, historical conditions and totalitarian regimes. Now, when we're going to end this commitment, we expect the government to have a high focus on the safety of Norwegian personnel and embassy personnel. We expect the government and NATO to take care of their security when the service is to cease. We must be prepared for a difficult period for Afghanistan in the future, and Norway must continue to contribute to its development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e508	The Afghanistan war has been a disaster. 160,000 people are killed, and millions are injured, traumatized, or driven by refugees. This did not mention Erna Solberg in one word in his presentation. The war was supposed to be an answer to Al Qaida's terrorist attack against the United States in 2001, which Red, of course, strongly condemned. But the one thing that the great majority of the millions of victims of war have in common -- who killed Afghan civilians, injured or killed Norwegian war veterans or random victims of the US torture on Guantánamo -- is that they had nothing to do with the terrorist attack. So what do these people have dead for? Here's the Godal report, unfortunately crystal clear. We went into the Afghanistan war to prevent terrorist groups from accessing Afghan territory, while the report concludes that Al Qaida is still present in the country, and after the US and NATO entered the country, IS has also had footholds. The second main objective of entering was to help build a stable and democratic Afghan state. Conclusion: Target not reached. On the contrary, today the country is ruled by the Taliban on the one hand and to a large extent what are more or less criminal warlords on the other. On both sides, the destructive warfare is financed by money from opium production. Unfortunately, most Afghans have had a lot worse overall. According to the World Bank, 70 pst lives. today below the poverty line, almost twice as many as before the war started. But the main goal we've achieved, according to the Godal Committee's report, is to show Norway as a United States loyal state. So the interesting thing is that the government continued the war even after the Godal report concluded that the war was a failure on all other points. Erna Solberg also mentioned the Norwegian veterans. The government has, and it must be said, spent billions of tax dollars and also put Norwegian soldiers' lives at risk for the United States' warfare. That's right. But to those who have come home from the war with damaged mental health, there has been a rather brutal intrusion on the part of the same government. Many who have struggled heavily with trauma have not met a helping hand, but have been mistrusted, have been denied compensation and are left with ruined personal finances and ruined lives. For them, fine words from here today are a little worth. Red is, as many know, against putting Norwegian soldiers' lives at risk for the U.S. wars, but we are crystal clear that when we send soldiers into war, we take responsibility for them when they return with damage. Thanks to American documents leaked through WikiLeaks, we know today that the United States has, of course, lied to Norway about alleged progress in Afghanistan. We know how NATO has driven hidden influence against Norwegian decision-making processes to drag Norway deeper into the war on obvious, documented false premises. The report's lessons are being sub-communicated by the Prime Minister here today. The killing of the US and NATO forces on civilians is not mentioned in one word. The American torture programmes are not mentioned in one word. It's weak. And there's not a single good reason why we didn't get out of the war a long time ago – except for one point: that we, of course, go after the United States, like the government most often does. The committee led by Godal concluded that it is thought-provoking that elected representatives and the media asked very little basic questions about the Afghanistan war. Red has proposed to set up an independent sample to challenge Norwegian participation in international operations. Today's presentation, where virtually all the negative consequences of the war have been pushed under the carpet, shows how important it is that the Stortinge supports our proposal, so that we learn from the disastrous Afghanistan war and do not try to hide from what is documented, very negative consequences of the war, and that should be known to everyone in Norway, not least to everyone in our own government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e530	I think it was important that we highlight what is happening in Afghanistan, after almost 20 years of presence, through a debate and a presentation in the final phase we are now in for our direct military engagement. I am pleased to hear a very clear agreement that we are going to continue our humanitarian commitment, that we are going to continue our development exposure, but with clear and clear conditions – conditions about who governs, and how they govern, that in the future we can stand in the way of the development of Afghanistan, and that we are going to contribute to institution building, to human rights and to the improvement of women's situation even after we are not militarily present to build security. And then there's a lot of big dilemmas when you're using military activity. There are also many dilemmas by not using military engagement. The question of whether it becomes less or more activity, we never get an answer to when you have chosen, or not chosen, because there is no alternative laboratory to show what Afghanistan would be like. But we know what Afghanistan was like before, and we know that it was home to international terrorists who carried out a major attack on one of our allies and who triggered Article 5 of the NATO Pact. I understand that parties in the United Kingdom who are against NATO and who do not believe that Norway should have the security guarantee it is with other countries and get help and defence, believe that we should not help those countries at the moment they are attacked either. But all of us who know that Norway's security is exactly in that guarantee know that this is also an obligation to participate. There is an obligation to contribute when another country is under attack. Then it is that after Al Qaida was defeated, this was no longer an operation mandated in the United States' right to self-defense. It was a UN-led world order that actually adopted a mandate that helped us stabilise Afghanistan and try to develop, and then you need security. Indeed, there is no safety-free development, but there is probably no safety without development either. That's the dilemma we're always going to face. When the representative Lysbakken, accompanied by about the same words from the representative of Moxnes, says that it should not be the task of the defense to participate in the U.S. wars around the world, it is a very wrong assessment of what this has been. This has initially been a NATO operation, in response to an attack on an ally – quite legitimately international law and part of our alliance defence, where we also stand up for others. Since then, there has been an operation led by NATO, but mandated by the United Nations, which considered that security had to be safeguarded in order to build. So you could always say that we could go out at different times. But we've had a clear exit strategy – and the same thing for us to participate: that we went in with NATO, and out with NATO. We've also made changes in the composition with NATO. For this has not been an autonomous Norwegian operation, it has been a UN mandated NATO operation, and with an invitation from the Afghan authorities afterwards. It shows, and I think that's quite clear, all of the dilemmas that exist. Evolution is not created from the outside; it is created from the inside. Peace solutions are created from the inside, not the outside. It concerns all types of solutions and all types of involvement, military, security or other. But we are left with the dilemma that will always be there: are we able to create development and change without security being in place? We see that in a lot of other countries. Therefore, my most important answer to these questions is that we should engage early in order to prevent failed states. We should have a strong commitment to peace diplomacy before the conflicts arise, and ensure that we contribute internationally to good development in many of these countries. Creating the lasting peace solutions is always in the hands of the peoples who live in the country. Then, of course, I don't think we should hit our chests and say that we have solved the challenges in Afghanistan. There's going to be a lot of challenges ahead of us. But for many Afghans, there have been new opportunities in the last 20 years. It has given development, it has given education, it has given opportunity to build on something. It's going to be with whoever's in the future, and it'll hopefully mean that it's taken into account, so that if the Taliban gets power, we won't come back to the Afghanistan we saw in 2000, but to another type of better-balanced Afghan society with better development, not least for women.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e551	The comment round has thus ended. The President will propose that the statement by the Prime Minister on the conclusion of NATO's operation in Afghanistan be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Case No. 3 and 4 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e583	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e590	This debate includes a big message from the government on higher education governance and two representatives from the Progress Party on the removal of the grade regulation and the escalation plan for health education. Two of the cases have a common position, while the draft representative on the escalation plan for health education has its own. There has been oral consultation on the management message and written consultation on the representatives’ proposals. The Committee has proposed a joint debate, since the dimensioning of higher education is also the subject of the governance communication. The management message briefly summarises the fact that universities and higher education institutions in the future will be managed more and less in the small area. To achieve this goal, the government adds up to, among other things. a review and simplification of the target structure of universities and higher education institutions. We're making changes to the degree code. We propose changes to the framework plans for vocational training. Furthermore, the government proposes a reorganisation of the underlying business, commits to merging several businesses and will continue to make it up to institutions to choose whether they want to employ or elected principal – to mention something. The notification was strongly supported by the consultation and by the Committee, but each party will present its own views and proposals. For the Advancement Party, there is a lot to rejoice about today, among other things. that we are getting almost a unanimous increase with us on most of our proposals for the degree regulation, because today the monopoly system falls for several of the courses, among other things. lawyers and psychologists. We should like to go a step further and also open up to medicine. Norway is training only half of the doctors we need. The rest of them take their education abroad. Despite this, the government and the rest of the Storting doubt that medical training is going to be subject to the monopoly situation, but fortunately, there is now work going on to determine future needs and capacity, and I am convinced that it will end up either removing the monopoly system, or getting the University of Stavanger to train doctors. It is a pity that this has to go to extra rounds, because the region around the University of Stavanger is overly mature for this. Medical competence is available at the UiS and in the primary and specialist health services. The study model requested by the UiS has received good feedback and has been thoroughly professionally assessed. In other words, the region has everything needed, as an infrastructure, against the ground, and the region is also ready with money for start-up. The only region does not have is tough enough politicians in the Central Party, the Labour Party and the Right, because today only the Progress Party supports concrete proposals on this. A short month ago, on behalf of the Progress Party, I also promoted proposals on the stepping-up plan for study places, among other things. medicine and nursing. We're going to lack 28,000 nurses in 15 years, and there are thousands of applicants every year who don't come in. Today, we get a majority in order for the government in the autumn budget to present an escalating plan to close this gap. At the same time, as mentioned in the management message, it points out that the government has started work on the future dimensioning of medical training, and I take it as a matter of course that a stepping-up plan for medicine will have to wait for that investigation, and that it will be the leader of the escalation plan. I'm happy to have a majority for the stepping-up plan for several nursing places. This is something we proposed in our alternative state budget, but it is disappointing to see that the government parties did not give us anything in the budget negotiations, nor do they give us anything today. Then it is strange to read that they believe that this is turning open the doors. The door may be open, but the government hasn't taken the famous doorstep mile. Now they are forced by the opposition to take the important step and go through the so-called open door. One of the reasons I am disappointed with the fact that the government parties do not participate in the majority decision on the escalation plan is that I have poor experience of the government's willingness to follow up the decision of the Storting when they themselves have not participated in them, whether it concerns the escalation plan for several colleges or new funding system, which is mentioned in the communication here today. Before the summer, the Progress Party, the Workers' Party and the Centre were given a majority in order to adopt a new funding system today, including: relevant work after completion of studies and work relevance should be incentives and factors. I am disappointed and surprised that there is no review of the new financing system in the wholesale communication, and that the government has not followed up the Storting decision. Now we have to trust that a state council that disagrees with the majority of the population, and has already put the matter at risk, will deliver in the next round. I hope the review takes place quickly, and that the Council of State states that the objectives referred to in the Grand Duchy's request decision are actually being followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e611	The representative Roy Steffensen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e616	Thanks, I was going to spend the last 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e621	The President perceived that the representative mentioned it in his statement. That's why I said it this way. At least they have been duly addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e626	Then I started with the matter I am the case rapporteur for, about a stepping-up plan for health education. In this case, the majority, the opposition parties, have agreed that there is a need to implement a stepping-up plan for medical, health and nursing studies, so that the education sector is able to train the skills that society needs. At present, the central statistical agency's labour force projections and employment projections show a high demand for health workforce by 2024. The majority share the concerns of the proposers that we do not have enough health professionals in society. A welfare society depends on having access to basic health care, and then it needs to be facilitated to allow us to have access to enough health professionals. I'm glad that the opposition is standing together on this, assuming that the minority is presenting its position. So to the matter of governing state universities and colleges. A well-functioning university and higher education sector is needed to contribute to value creation and to sustainable solutions for the future. If Norway is to succeed as a nation in shifting to a green shift in global competition, more of its research efforts must be directed towards the major societal challenges. Governance policy is essential for institutions to meet the full range of policy objectives for research and higher education, and we in SV are disappointed that the government in such an important area is once again presenting a communication that essentially investigates and describes. The situation taken into account: we needed a government that led and showed direction. I'd like to point out two things in particular. Firstly, more and more sector representatives are now aware of the need for a continuous trust reform in higher education and research. We agree with that, and we take these signals seriously. Secondly, several government-appointed selections indicate that the government has not succeeded in caring for the districts, which are currently being tapped for citizens, competences and opportunities. There is no doubt that the government's response to these challenges is too weak, and we are calling for a strategy for flexible and decentralised education. The key to developing districts in general and North Norway in particular, on people’s own premises, lies in strong educational institutions and in a boost for the professions. We'll talk about that later today. But these are the main instruments we have in the fight against relocation and centralisation. There is a alarming need for a power cap for decentralised higher education. So a few words about the degree code. We believe that the Grading Regulation makes national governance of central education possible and ensures that inappropriate competition between educational institutions can be prevented. We are afraid that random competition between the institutions will be unfortunate for some areas of expertise and some regions. SV fears that the competition in the sector to which the government is now introducing will further weaken the funding of the practical studies. Today’s regulation is an appropriate way of regulating the national needs for different education, regional skills needs, costs and impacts on quality, because it is the Stortinget and the Ministry of Knowledge that ensure the allocation of study places and resources. In this way, we can ensure sufficient admission to central professions in order to meet future needs. The notification should facilitate more cooperation and division of labour in the sector. The government's proposal to grant degrees in the fields of law, psychology and theology to those institutions that receive the accreditation of NOKUT signals that the government wants to abandon a policy based on cooperation, division of labour and concentration. Several hearing bodies stress that today’s practice of standards ensures quality. I am thus addressing the suggestions that SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e651	The representative of Mona Fagerås has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e656	The Labour Party has great ambitions for universities and colleges. The Korona crisis shows how important it is and how important it becomes with a knowledge policy that responds to the challenges. We need a well-functioning university and higher education sector that contributes to value creation and sustainable solutions for the future. If Norway is to succeed in the necessary transformation and innovation, research efforts need to be stepped up, and it needs to focus more on the major societal challenges, while respecting the autonomy of the institutions. Governance policy is essential for institutions to solve this societal challenge. Therefore, the Workers' Party is disappointed that this communication lacks clear recommendations. The future requires a continuous and offensive commitment to knowledge and a roadside separation in the management of the knowledge environments. That is why the Workers' Party has a trust reform in higher education. Knowledge organisations shall be managed overall, not in detail. We believe that strengthening democracy in teaching places should be the subject of the communication. Trust-based governance means that students, employees and trust-elects have more participation in how the work is organised. In recent years, the government has built up a directorate field in the university and higher education sectors with a reporting regime and cross-cutting steering signals. The government's flat cut in the sector amounts to more than 1.5 billion. kr. Both are governance that reduces autonomy and withdraws activity away from the professional. The top-level ABE reform is not the subject of the message either. It is striking, we believe, by a government that emphasises autonomy as a condition for the achievement of the target in the sector. The working party will replace the ABE cuts with targeted efficiency improvement. The districts are losing population and competence at a high pace now, and the government's response is far too weak. The Labour Party therefore asks that the strategy for flexible and decentralised education be presented to the Stortinget. Our alternative to the right government is a strong commitment to decentralised education. When the state has placed higher education institutions around Norway, it is among other things. to provide the basis for the regional labour market with skilled labour, thereby contributing to the settlement and development of the labour market. We believe that this assignment needs to be clarified. We therefore propose to strengthen the regional responsibilities of universities and higher education institutions as part of the governance dialogue. We are also disappointed that the government does not follow up the Storting decision to bring forward a new funding model together with this communication. Funding is a very central aspect of governance, and the government is pushing funding and a comprehensive legislative framework. A new funding system should promote the broad societal tasks of apprenticeships, contribute to the objectives of better study quality, lifelong learning and good work relevance, and cover actual training costs. We have anchored this in the party programme. The Workers' Party wants development agreements to be used more actively for more overall governance and a differentiated training offer. We are pleased to be proposed, and we have repeatedly addressed this in both budgetary and long-term terms. So to the degree rule: More competition and self-regulation in the field of education, which seems to be a bit of a basis for the argument here, is definitely not the Labour Party's policy. At the same time, we find it difficult to see fundamental reasons for maintaining a degree monopoly in some five- or six-year integrated vocational education and training, but not in others. We trust that autonomous institutions themselves can assess their own study portfolio and leave the quality as the driving force behind accreditation. Changes in the grade regulation will not address Norway’s competence needs. The government justifies the change with the need for lawyers and psychologists, but note that new places of study are not promised. If you want to open up, you also have to follow up. We believe that more capacity and strengthening of the trade unions are needed, and we propose to include stepping up plans for places of study and scholarships in the long-term plan. The amendment of the regulation must be accompanied by thorough assessments in order to prevent fragmentation of the current professional environment and to develop new, good quality. It will be important to further develop the management of the approval mechanisms, and we therefore propose to consider increased appropriations for NOKUT. We take the dimensioning of medical training seriously and believe that it must be thoroughly investigated and that the investigation must be submitted to the Stortinget. Finally, the Labour Party supports proposal No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e679	Through our nearly eight years in government, knowledge and research have been one of the top priorities of the Right and Government, and it is going well in the sector. For the last five years, R & D funds have been above 1 pst. of gross domestic product. Norway is picking up more and more money from international research programmes, and in addition, universities and colleges have had a real growth of over 20,5ps, i.e. about 6.9bs. kr. We have high ambitions for the sector, and we have great promises, including: the structural reform, the quality reform and the reform of competences, etc., took important steps to promote quality, distinctiveness and not least good dimensioning. I want to commend the efforts and commitment of the educational institutions among the employees and students in the last year. Everyone, but perhaps especially the students, has been in a difficult situation. While many are now tired and tired of the pandemic, there are many learning points we have to take along, and the need for quick conversion has been even more updated under the pandemic. Our ability to meet the future and the unknown is very much linked to how strong education and research environments we have in Norway, and we therefore need a governance policy that takes account of changes in the sector, as we have seen in recent years, and not least to equip it for short-term and long-term threats in the future – threats to society, health and well-being. The government has presented a plan for the governance of universities and higher education institutions, which will be managed more and less in small terms. We all depend on having a sector of education engaged in good and socially relevant research and higher education. Governance policy must both put the long lines and ensure that the sector is able to meet the broad range of policy objectives, while being targeted and adapted to the individual institution. In dealing with this communication, we have had good cooperation with the sector, and many good input has been made. Several of the hearings point to the need to reflect the needs of students and the needs of working life, and this is an important balance that the government is providing in this communication. A good dimensioning of educational provision is important for students to have a variety of studies and places to choose from, while responding to the needs of society in the future. Part of the answer lies in changes, including: of the degree regulation, in order to enable several educational institutions with good professional environments to provide education and training that society requires. For me, it's important to stress that even if we have a change in the degree code, you don't change quality or content, on the contrary. The role of NOCUT will be even more important, with a view to high standards of quality and content at each educational institution. For the right-wing government, it has been important to achieve a governance policy that supports our goal of raising and developing excellent professional environments in Norway. Thus, within the framework of the NOCUT quality management system, we will provide the basis for several good training courses for future students, which are in line with the needs of society and industry. In a small country such as Norway, good division of labour is important, and it is important that we further strengthen our knowledge institutions through targeted efforts and stepping up in line with the ambitions of the long-term research and higher education plan. Although we have our clear ambitions and have increased exchange rates and higher rates abroad, it will be an independent point that different courses of study have a balance with national needs. An investigation into medical training will include, inter alia: contribute to a good basis on which to best manage the increased number of study places in medicine and the environments in which we have. It is worth mentioning in the State budgets that we are dealing with funding for study places in the question of stepping up plans for several places of study. There is a lot that could have been taken up by a large management message. The most important thing is to be able to say that there has been a message that has been received very well by the sector and that has had a good anchoring in the process. When discussing confidence in the sector in a governance dialogue, I think it is appropriate to note that it is a paradox when criticising, among other things, the left side of Norwegian policy. The ABE reform, a trust-based scheme that has helped to make demands for state conversion in its entirety. It has turned out to be very positive for the UH sector, which has had considerable financial efforts since the government change. It has, among other things, has given us a historical commitment in the fields of study and research, and has helped to increase the framework of the sector as a whole. Instead, the answer to the left side is targeted cut, and thus lack of trust. It can be a cross of thought when we have a management message for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e699	To the last speaker first, I recommend the Right to read some of the proposals that the Central Party is in favour of today, because they are just discussing how funding for basic components can increase the scope of action of the institutions. Society depends on knowledge, research and innovation. Universities and higher education institutions are key institutions in developing Norwegian society, and they will be governed by ambitious objectives. They will both ensure that Norway has the skills we need and that we assert ourselves internationally. They shall meet the needs of people, businesses and the public for the development of knowledge. Today, the Stortinget deals with the communication on governance of state universities and colleges, a proposal for a regulation on degrees and a plan for stepping up health education. The centre party believes that we need to use and manage resources such as competences, competences and public funds wisely. That is why we are critical of the degree of integration of bureaucracy in the management of academia, with detailed objectives and leadership combined with the ABE cut, which has given the institutions a strenuous capacity to cope. The right-hand play of the business model assessment and the acquisition of buildings and property that the institutions today finely manage themselves has not been fruitful. Fortunately, the government has made sense. The Progress Party has been part of the Solberg government for nearly seven out of eight years, but is in a living opposition today. When the message was advertised, the Center Party hoped to clean up the management of higher education. Unfortunately, it was much more fragmented and divided than we saw for ourselves. Only this spring has the Stortinget raised several issues for higher education treatment without the full follow-up of the Aune Committee or the Grimstad Committee's proposals. It seems to me that the government is better at putting down samples than at following up and realizing policies. The central party believes that the government could have been more stringent in relation to its own management when the management message is now to point out the course further. The aim is to facilitate the professional and strategic development of universities and universities and to ensure the rights of students and employees. Therefore, we will investigate measures to prevent drop-outs and delays in the studies for students in higher education, without getting a majority in favour of it. An important part of the framework laid down by the State is the way in which directorates and the organisation of higher education and research facilitate or hinder professional development and activity. The centre party believes that the message becomes too superficial and little concrete on the management directly from the Ministry of Knowledge and the management of the directorate. Another significant part of Storting’s intervention is in the financing of research and higher education. The centre party has repeatedly asked for a comprehensive review of the funding system, but has not received a hearing from the government parties for it. A communication on governance policy will be incomplete when it does not include how the different elements of the funding system affect the objectives and overall governance of the sector. As you can see, this message is deficient, but now at least the government parties are notifying that they agree with the Central Party that such a review must be carried out. This has a major impact on the further development of the structure and study places of different institutions. The centre party has always been clear that there is a political responsibility where study places are set up and laid down. Historically, there was a strong desire to ensure the availability of universities throughout the country. Then the government parties brought with them the Stortinget that there had to be a structural reform, without the consequences or dietary benefits of it being assessed. Now we are left with study places related to major superstructures, with the risk that management and funding are further away from where the students and the professional activity are. In the worst cases, regional objectives and decentralised study services may be lost without the Stortinget and the leading elected representatives of Norway’s National Assembly taking responsibility for it. Nesna is a living example. The centre party is involved and promotes a number of good suggestions in the matter today. Among other things, we want the government to suspend the merger of the directorates and come back to the Stortinget with proposals that actually reduce the number of directorates and underlying businesses, with a clear transfer of tasks to the institutions and a clear placement of responsibility in the ministry. We also believe that it is a fundamental value that elected representatives are held accountable through elections and that the Stortinget takes responsibility for further development. In total, the management and requested management of higher education and research by the Centre Party will contribute to greater activity and research, as well as to the care of students and trade unions throughout the country. I do not have a complete overview of whether our proposals have been addressed. One more? Then I have to pick it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e722	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e727	I'm glad that the government in the big news promises a policy that suggests that the university and higher education sector should be managed more and more in small terms. I am pleased that this has broad support from the hearing bodies. It is important to strike a good balance between the student’s demand for education and the needs of the labour market for skilled labour. At the same time, it is essential that the UH institutions plan for future societal needs. The Government provides for a comprehensive review of the funding of universities and colleges to ensure that the allocation of resources takes place correctly, based on current policy objectives: combining student demand for education and meeting the needs of the labour force. Work life is changing rapidly. These tasks will be solved in a new way, and they will be changed in a fast way. In this respect, the provision of training must also be in continuous improvement and further development. This requires framework conditions that facilitate diversity, flexibility and change in the higher education sector. I am pleased that the government has presented a plan for the governance of universities and colleges, that they should be managed more broadly, and that takes important steps to promote quality, peculiarity and dimensioning. This Communication is a historical change towards a trust-based management system for universities and higher education institutions, which will contribute to an increased focus on quality and on the specific nature of institutions. Free research – research that we trust – is fundamental. I am pleased that the government is clear that governance must rehabilitate and protect academic freedom as a central, democratic value, and that an expert committee should be set up to look at the academic freedom of the proposal for amendments to the Law on Higher Education. The availability of high-quality education throughout Norway is also fundamental. It is therefore important to look at both support schemes for individual students and incentives for individual institutions to provide and make available high-quality education throughout the country, through flexible studies. I look forward to the government presenting its own strategy for decentralised and flexible education before the summer of 2021, in a short time. The free principle of higher education is also fundamental to the ability of all in Norway to take higher education, regardless of social background. This is also the basis for the review of the funding system. The dimensioning of the provision of higher education must meet both the needs of students and the needs of the labour market. It is then important to further develop the areas of interaction between the sector and social actors in order to ensure a good dialogue on dimensioning needs for the future. However, this must also have a high degree of flexibility so that institutions can adapt to both local and regional conditions and their own professional characteristics in the best possible way. The proposed changes to the grade regulation open to, inter alia: Psychology and law can be offered by several institutions. That's very good news. The government has also started work on how to expand the capacity of medical training. I assume that this work can be done quickly, so that the assessment of both the costs and the model for escalation is presented during the current year. A Joint Committee also invites the Government to assess whether medical training should be offered by more institutions than today, including at the University of Stavanger. The left hopes that further clarification of this can come as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e748	The Coronapandemic has fully reminded us of how crucial knowledge is. Lifelong learning, research-driven innovation and a knowledge-driven working life are becoming increasingly important in meeting global megatrends. It will require flexibility and conversion for all of us, including the university and higher education sectors. When the government decided that a message was to be made about the governance of state universities and colleges, we said that the main goal was to ensure that students and we as society have a well-functioning system for higher education and research. I would like to thank the Committee for its thorough consideration of the biggest report. I am pleased that we share our view of the importance of a good governance system for this vital sector, and that governance must be influenced by a vision of steering more and less in small terms. The interest in what universities and colleges do is growing, and it's very good. There are legitimate needs in many of the interests, but we must meet it with diversity in the sector and governance dialogue, not stronger central governance. It is a challenge that today's management system is too heavy and does not take too little into account that there are large differences in, for example: NTNU and Sámi college, both in size and in social assignments. The communication has made it clear how complex our management system is, with an incredible number of objectives and instruments that work at the same time. It makes it unclear what we as government govern, and what responsibility is given to the institutions. It also makes it difficult to know what the effect of the different instruments actually is. Today we control too much – and too much in detail. So we're probably also steering in a way that doesn't give us the results that we want and that society needs. We still have to control, but the government has provided a message to make sure that we run smarter and more focused. In the Communication, we propose four principles of good governance. This is based on the input we have received into the reporting process and the knowledge base on good governance. First of all, we're going to manage more dialogue-based. The management dialogue shall ensure that the management is transparent and predictable. Secondly, we need to be more differentiated. Governance shall ensure diversity and complementarity between different institutions. Dialogue-based and differentiated governance shall ensure diversity and division of labour in the sector. This will ensure and support the regional role of institutions and strengthen knowledge capacity overall. Access to relevant high-quality education and knowledge throughout the country is an important priority for this government and must therefore also shape governance. The last two principles are to ensure that governance is strategic and knowledge-based. The duration of the instruments shall be assessed in order to avoid their falling into layers – making governance more complex and less efficient. In order to implement the governance policy adopted by the government, the Communication also presented a number of proposals for five different areas of governance: funding, dimensioning, target management, management of vocational training and changes in the Higher Education and Competence Directorates. We need to have confidence in the employees and students of universities and colleges and that they, together with their partners in both the public and private sectors, know best where the challenges are, and what are the best solutions. It is what creates innovation, quality and institutions with clear regional and national roles. Meeting the student’s demand for education and the needs of the labour market is an important part of such a social role. That is why we have agreed that all institutions that receive accredited vocational training in psychology, law and theology will in future be awarded these degrees. That's also one of the reasons why we want to look at the dimensioning of medical education. As I said at the outset, a good governance policy does not mean that we should stop ruling. But we have to rule in a way that supports the goals we have for universities and colleges. The government will therefore, among other things: carry out a thorough review of the entire funding of universities and colleges in order to see how it will improve and to follow up the decision of the Grand Duchy on the relevance of working life and lifelong learning. We need a system that is more supportive of continuing education and providing good access to education throughout the country. Climate change, digitisation and demographic change will also challenge us in new ways in the future. Universities and colleges play a crucial role in society, and independent and critical knowledge institutions are a central part of a well-functioning democracy. With this Communication, the government is presenting a comprehensive governance policy that sets a predictable and clear framework for the strategic development of the sector that is to be sustained over time – in line with the transition we need to implement in the next twenty years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e780	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e785	I have two questions, about dimensioning and funding. One is that work has been started by the government with a process of dimensioning medical training to assess whether it should be offered by more institutions than today, and then also at the University of Stavanger. I wonder if the Council of State can answer when that investigation is expected to be completed. To the extent that I have a similar question about funding. It is positive that the Council of State said that it would achieve the objectives set out in the request decision of the Stortingen, but the main message says that a mandate should be given for this review and funding, and then I interpret it as if it were a sample, and that can take a few years. I wonder if the Council of State can clarify when the review of the funding system will be completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e792	If I'm going to start with the first, namely the investigation of the dimensioning of medical education, then there's a work that we're going to do now together with health companies, because the Storting is joining this solution, to just look at the capacity, for example. in clinics and all these things, as well as that we want to get more places to study. So the question is where they're going to be. We expect that to be completed by the end of this year, so that we can take a decision on this in the course of 2021/2022 also for Stortinget. When it comes to the sample to look at funding, it is quite right, as the representative says, that we have pointed out two things in the governance message. One is the clear request decision made by the majority of the population, namely that the relevance of working life, i.e. What jobs you get after you have completed your education will count, and the other is just decentralized and flexible education. Now when we get the connection from the Storing, it looks like we can start that work fast, but it'll take some time. Just a few years I don't have a time frame, but a few years can take before we have completed a funding system.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e799	Governments were in the middle of centralization. Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oslo, Åse Gornitzka, has shown that the emergence of central government agencies at the level of the departments is the most obvious change in central government in recent years. For the university and higher education sectors, there has been a significant increase, which is significant. The governance message has been submitted to the Stortinget in order to establish the governance principles of the institutions. Nevertheless, the role of the directorates is little problematised in the notification, despite the fact that the directorate has highlighted the emergence of the Council of State in the area of responsibility. We believe that the Directorates should be reviewed with a view to reducing and cleaning up. In February the news came that the government made changes in the organisation of the Directorates. But what was the reason why this change was made before the management message?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e806	The reason for this was that when the pandemic hit, we saw that Diku and Competence Norway, which suddenly became extra important, announced funds on a slightly different basis to the same sector. We then had to set up a joint co-operation board for these two directorates to ensure that they did not get in each other's legs when the sector was going to compete for announced funds, for example. rapid capacity-up, continuing training, etc. Then we also saw the clear need, on which the sector has also been very clear. One thing is kind of the role of the directorates in their entirety, which is kind of what the representative promises, but also the fact that if there are different directorates that have some of the same tasks, it can become very unclear for the sector. That's why we grabbed it, and this was also something that we anchored in the sector in the sense that it was a very clear feedback. That's why we thought it was a good idea to do something in the summer, and it'll be clear on July 1st this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e811	I thank you for your answer. So it's like the government meets the sector's need for less detailed management with quite cautious measures, we think, in this message. For example, red tape and efficiencies include: not thematically addressed, and strengthening democracy at universities and higher education institutions is not a topic either. We see in the Working Party that detailed management and target reporting take time from the core activity of the institutions. So do the ABE cuts. The autonomy of teaching places is weakened. We want to implement a trust reform in higher education and replace these flat cuts with a targeted efficiency improvement and a full review of the management system. Why is not the ABE, or the red tape and efficiency reform, part of the communication? The government has said that this is a very important reform for them. Why is it not addressed in the management message?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e818	The ABE reform is not, of course, a reform that concerns only this sector. It's really a general reform going on all the public parts of our society, which is about taking down some of the bureaucracy and making something more efficient on the operation. The reason why we haven't problemed it specifically is that this message is primarily about how we should have some governance principles. I agree with the description to the representative that there have been too many targets, too many signals, too many things at once. I even got a presentation of the KD office that showed how a normal university is run. There's a terrible lot of things at once that we have to clean up, and that's what we're trying to answer here. With regard to the ABE reform, I believe that there is a reliable way to control it, right and see it because what we are saying is predictable – there will be a reduction in what is called bureaucracy, or there is a way to work smarter – instead of what is the representative’s option, that is to say, to go in and cut in some areas each year. I think that will be less predictable and less confident of the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e826	At the beginning of February, it was known that by 1 July six directorates and 9000 employees would have been reorganised to form a new superdirectorate. The surprising thing about the news was not the need to change the directorate structure – it is over-modern – but the pace. By 1 July, a temporary organisation shall be carried out – a temporary organisation, that is. It may seem that it is the government that feels it is in a hurry to implement. The Centre Party has long called for a reduction in the number of directorates and bureaucracies in the education sector in order to reduce duplication of reporting and duplication of work, as mentioned by the Council of State itself in previous articles. Unfortunately, the management message does not respond to what will be the benefit of creating a new superdirectorate. On the contrary, the urgency raises more questions. What concrete savings and simplifications will the reorganisation lead to?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e833	Let me just put it right: there won't be just one sample director, as the representative said; we get a service provider directorate, and then we get one that's about quality and competence. The reason why we do that is on the one hand that we saw the need to gather Unit and Uninett, for example, who work with much of the same, but who are both ordering and supplier, and that they work better together, and on the other hand just to make sure that we have one directorate that monitors quality, that checks the quality of education, that approves foreign education, all of these things. And then we're going to keep NOCUT as an independent quality management body, which is very important to have, and which is not connected to the others. The purpose of this is not primarily to save money. The purpose of this is to clear the governance of the sector. I understand very well that the sector not only wants to deal with the directorate – we clearly say that they should not – but that they have a neat structure to deal with when the directorates are going to have dialogue with the sector, I think that is important, and I believe that we are.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e840	I believe that the central authorities must take responsibility and not abdidate in the management of the sector, neither in terms of the place of study nor the dimensioning of higher education places. In particular, it is a political responsibility to ensure that each region has access to the core competence of the various professional training courses. But then we've seen, like at Nesna, that study places are being laid down. When a whole society is destroyed when the corner stone business disappears, when important skills jobs disappear from the district – a place of study that has provided a whole country with important competences, teachers and nurses for a hundred years – central politicians must then be able to take responsibility. Can the Minister explain to me why national politicians should not have anything to say on such an important matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e847	I now record in the setting that SV has changed since discussing the structural reform. At the time, SV was also a supporter of the fact that the boards of universities and colleges were to be responsible for the study structure. Now they've changed their mind. Nevertheless, I note that there is a very broad and large majority on the Grand Council that determines that governments are still going to have this, and I'm glad that the majority of people are going to do it, because we're going to rule in a clearer way, that's less in the small, more in the large. We need expectations, for example. the regional responsibility of an institution. We're going to provide continuing education, we're going to be more connected to the working life, and we're going to provide more relevant education. But just how the different institution chooses to organize its different study places, I think it's actually better that the individual board and the individual institution take, than that we sit here in Oslo and decide on behalf of the whole country how that structure should be. So I think this is right, and I'm glad that the mass mass also makes it fixed this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e852	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e857	The paper on governance of state universities and higher education institutions shall contribute to a more general and comprehensive governance policy. It shall facilitate the future governance of universities and higher education institutions in general in small and medium-sized areas. This was also an important point of view which emerged during the consultation following the submission of the notification. In order to achieve this goal, it is put up to, among other things. a review and simplification of the target structure at universities and higher education institutions, changes to the Grading Regulation and proposals for changes to the framework plans for vocational training in order to make them more general and less detailed than they were before. The Christian People's Party is concerned with academic freedom and believes this is a powerful symbol of a central democratic value. We are therefore pleased to see that the message largely resolves to ensure that the steering both hangs around and protects it. The fact that it is now announced by the government that an expert committee will be set up to look at the academic freedom of the proposal for changes to the Law on Higher Education, we therefore take a positive view, but we ask that this selection should have the widest possible composition which also takes care of private universities on an ideal basis. The Communication also highlights the importance of introducing more comprehensive framework plans. In the case of rigorous framework-based professional training, local professional freedom and professional development may be impeded. More comprehensive plans will provide a greater degree of adaptability and flexibility, which will address the future needs of the UH sector. However, few of the measures in this Communication have received so much national and local political attention — and pressure — as the proposal to amend the Grading Regulation. The debate has well shown, if we're going to be completely honest, that despite statements of important fundamental arguments one way or another, it hasn't been so hard to see that we're, regardless of party membership, representatives from different parts of our long-term country, and that we're all closest to our own home, our own university or our own college. On that occasion, I will give tribute to the Asheim Council of State to think about the great and general thoughts of this matter, and I think we have managed to land it in a good way. For the degree regulation as it has been practised, it is evident that it has acted as a monopoly that has protected the well established universities and study facilities to the detriment of the newest universities. It has been unfortunate that some education is limited to a few universities and colleges when the need for people with this professional background is great, and we are also training many of these today, but we are doing it abroad. For this reason, it would be more fair for education to be recognised now on the basis of the quality they are able to deliver, rather than on the basis of an old regulation that allows individual institutions to monopolise education for which society clearly needs increased capacity. It has been unfortunate and a loss for the working life of both today and the future that many highly qualified applicants have remained out of study, travel abroad or spend a very long time and money getting into the few places available. Now NOCUT, which is an independent body, shall, in addition to approving oversight and monitoring all types of training. At the same time, they are mandated to withdraw accreditation if the requirements are not met. We believe that this ensures high quality education in the future as well and is, in our opinion, a good way to solve the problem of standards regulation. A comprehensive governance policy in the UH sector is not going to be good enough if we are just to protect the situation as it is today. That is why we are pleased that the communication is courageous and shows the way towards the launch of a comprehensive review of the funding system. The review will ensure better consistency with policy objectives, respect for sectoral responsibilities and, in our view, better use of resources. At the same time, the free principle is maintained, so that we ensure that everyone in Norway has the opportunity to take higher education regardless of social background. This is important and good Christian People's Party policy. Together with the further actions of the Communication, we will now put institutions in the best position to solve their societal tasks, and the sector as a whole will be equipped to meet the important national knowledge needs of our society in the future. With this message, we will now ensure an overall, transparent and, not least, predictable governance policy for state universities and colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e878	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e883	It is a problem in Norway that universities and colleges do not educate people about what they need. It is a particularly serious problem that Norway does not train enough doctors, nurses and psychologists who are in need of health care. We have definitely seen and known under the corona pandemic what vulnerability lies in being totally dependent on the import of health professionals to operate Norway’s health care system. There's hardly one unemployed psychologist, and we're missing thousands of nurses and doctors. Why, then, do not Norwegian universities and colleges educate more? 40 pst. of doctors in Norway have their education abroad, and the proportion is increasing. In 2017, 70 p.m. by the authorisations granted to doctors with foreign education. Then I can't understand why the government doesn't oblige universities to expand their study capacity. In 2019, the Grimstad Committee presented a report which concludes that Norway should expand its capacity for medical training in Norway. Norwegian medical students abroad are well educated, but they are educated in a health care system that is different from what we have. Norwegian health services are also very vulnerable in a pandemic, as we have seen now, where the possibility of importing labour from other countries is limited. I want to say that I am very pleased that these important changes are now coming into place for the South. We have trained more people – directly into important and relevant jobs – and we have established a psychology and law education that is important to us. But in conclusion, I would like to underline a great disappointment that the government and the Workers' Party do not allow the University of Stavanger to establish a medical education. It is a pity for Norwegian justudents, and it is a pity for Norwegian health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e892	This is a day of joy. When the degree code is changed, state councils and Stortinget write educational history, where quality and needs are put first in the education of future lawyers and psychologists, where action is taken to respond to the needs of municipalities and businesses, and where a broader recruitment base is ensured to build strong Norwegian professional environments. Either it's UiA or BI, I'm sure you'll be worthy of trust. And at home, I would like to congratulate the UiS, with Professor Folkvord in the front, who has built up a strong legal environment, especially in tax law. With the subject of taxation, which the Right and the Government created a few rocks away, good synergies can also be achieved. I am sure that the strict and correct quality requirements will be satisfied, which means that now is just the time and the way to get started training lawyers in the energy capital. We need more doctors, and we need more trained in Norway. Since the time when rapporteur Leif Johan Sevland raised the matter with the then Minister of Health Bjarne Håkon Hanssen in 2009, the Stavanger region has fought to use its competence in the national effort. The reasons for this are many and obvious: one has the professional environment, Norway's third largest emergency hospital with about 200 doctorates and 36 professors, which the government has built side by side with its third most research intensive university. One has a strong health cluster with globally dominant health companies like Laerdal Medical. One has an initial start of 84 million. kr, clapped and clear, funded by business, which will cover personnel and infrastructure for start-up. And one has available land and infrastructure, which is specifically developed by the Grimstad Committee. I could still do that. That's why it's very good that the government is now investigating how you can meet the need for more doctors, and specifically look at the possibilities with the UiS. For my own part, I am sure that the UiS with a degree course could be an important contribution to meeting the need for more doctors, and it will strengthen the whole of Health Norway. I would like to commend the Council of State for innovation and for putting quality and need for law and psychology first. Then I hope – and I'm going to work for – that soon we can also say the same to doctors in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e903	There is a great need to implement a stepping-up plan for studies in medicine, health, psychology and nursing, so that the education sector has the capacity to train the skills that society needs, but then we also need to be open to changing the degree code so that this is possible. Since 2014, the Government Parties and the Advance Party have allocated funds to under 1600 new training places for health education, including 450 for nurses and 230 for further training of nurses. But we also need to raise the proportion of medical students, as Norwegian doctors taking their education abroad are very high – about 50 pst. The recommendation of the Grimstad Committee is that Norway should have an educational capacity in medicine that is consistent with the WHO Health Care Professional recruitment code. In order to achieve this, there is a need for a significant upscaling of study places in medicine. An adjustment to the Regulation will help to increase the opportunities for universities in Norway to provide training required by the labour market. I have also noticed that many see this as a threat to North Norway and medical training in Tromsø. I would rather claim that it is the opposite – medical studies at several universities are no threat to North Norway. There is no contradiction between wanting to set up several medical colleges at the University of Tromsø while being open to other universities being competent enough to have medical studies. 440 new places of study, as we need, does not mean that all 440 will be placed in Stavanger; that means that all existing universities will also have increased numbers of places of study. So why shouldn't you be able to train doctors in Stavanger? Stavanger has universities, and they have university hospitals, but today they get their students from Bergen. What's the logic that they can't pick up their students from their own university? Is there anyone who believes that the majority in the West is going to travel to Tromsø to educate themselves as a doctor, when it's shorter to travel to Hungary? To change the regulation so that you can offer more places and more places, I think of it as a win-win situation for North Norway and for Norway as a whole. A change to the graduation code will provide more trained doctors in Norway and more trained doctors in North Norway. I'm just asking, can it get better?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e916	I thought I'd take the word to Innst. S 419 S, if that's okay. It is such that the Workers' Party is part of the majority who promote the recommendation on that matter. We believe that there is a need to implement a stepping-up plan for medicine, health and nursing, because higher education needs capacity building to train the skills that society needs. In many areas, it is difficult to predict the need for competence. This is not such an area. We are concerned that Norway is not getting enough health professionals, and therefore, in our alternative state budgets, repeatedly proposed 3,000 new places of study with a particular focus on the skills of the welfare state, such as nurses and other health education. In addition, we have programmed that we would like to have college escalation plans in the long-term plan to get more national governance on the very capacity upgrade. We also want to reduce the part-time share in health and care so that more of the labour force can be fully exploited, and so that employees, who are often women, are able to live off and earn pension rights, etc. We would also like to stress that we are in agreement with the majority in stressing that the plan must be based on needs forecasts, and it must be committed. And – that is important – it also needs to describe concrete actions to raise capacity in the practical areas. So we believe it is critical that the government has not concluded in the budget on the basis of the Grimstad Committee. This paralysis of actions causes the lack of a body to continue to grow. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that the Workers' Party has repeatedly called on the government to review the authorisation schemes, because very strict requirements and high thresholds for authorisation also contribute to limiting access to healthcare professionals. A basic premise here is, of course, that professional qualifications and patient safety are ensured. Finally, I hear that both the representative Gudmundsen and the Council of State defend the red tape of red tape in a little absurdity, because this is not the kind of predictability that the sector wants. The government itself said in the Granavolden statement that they would consider targeting these cuts. The working party will of course have an efficient public sector, but flat cut on repeat is not the way to that goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e932	The gallery is closed, but I know that someone is on the Internet, because on Twitter, the Norwegian student organisation has announced that they are waiting in suspense for proposal No. 15 can have a majority today. Then I can tell you that the Progress Party will support proposal No. 15, and then we hope that the other parties can do it too, so it'll be unanimous. The reason why we did not go into the proposal from the beginning was that we believe that investigating measures to prevent withdrawals and delays in the studies is something the Council of State is doing on a daily basis. But we can gladly support the proposal. Otherwise, I am disappointed again that the Council of State has obviously intended to use filibuster tactics by training the review of funding. I hoped that it could be in place at a much earlier time than the Council of State has now added. With regard to fiber optics, I thought that I had to draw to make sure that the representative Tvedt Solberg would have time to get into the room so that he could draw, for this is after all one of the main issues of the Workers' Party if you should believe what has been written on social media at, among other things. Stavanger Arbeiderparti. On 19 March they wrote that a new government is in a hurry to get speed on the matter of medical training at the University of Stavanger: ‘This is one of our most important issues, and we are pleased that the Workers’ Party is clearly nationally committed to supporting medical training at the UiS.’ It was ‘like’ by educational spokesperson Torstein Tvedt Solberg, who is also head of the Workers' Party, who has supported fiscal spokesperson and vice-leader in the Workers' Party, who has been out there and even launched his own model of how this can be done in a committed cooperation between the UIB and the UIS, without seeing that it has been promoted in the matter today. It's a little strange since the educational policy figure on October 7 said it was a stomach job of the government, he was extremely disappointed that no necessary action was taken, because it was urgent to get a clarification so that the University of Stavanger could get involved in medical training. I understand that Stavanger Arbeiderparti has believed that this was one of the most important issues for the Workers' Party in Rogaland. It must be sad to have to eat camels even when you're in opposition and not just when you're part of a government. But I hope that the representative Tvedt Solberg can draw and explain what has happened since 7 October, since an investigation is now necessary rather than taking the necessary action.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e946	It's tempting to remind the last speaker that the Progress Party has also been in power almost seven of the eight years the Solberg government has ruled this country. So it's clear that the Progress Party could also contribute in the position both to more places of study and to the fact that it would have been different with the management of higher education, including medical education, here to countries. Otherwise I have to say that I am very happy that the Progress Party announces support for proposal No. 15, and, of course, encourages all other parties to support the proposal, except the Center Party and the SV, which are already in it, because it is a very important proposal to prevent the drop-out and delays in the studies for students in higher education. There's nothing controversial about it. It is a sincerely good idea to get more knowledge on the table, and also to simply follow up on the management of higher education and to take care of students and student welfare around the country. So I think it is important to talk about the representative proposals that have been raised here today, and that is what the last speakers have spent speaking time on. The debate on the regulation of degrees, for example, is a complex debate, in which the Central Party supports in many ways the intention that more education could be offered more places in the country. At the same time, we believe that the opening attached to the graduation regulation should not have unintended consequences. It was also clear from the consultation carried out by the Committee that there were many who shared that concern. That's why we're with and open up for education, except medicine and veterinary medicine. Here the government is going to come up with more knowledge. Norway needs greater capacity and more candidates in these subjects. In particular, there is a tendency to be insensitive. The demand for both fixed doctors and nurses around the country, which is needed to ensure that we can be safe on good and operational preparedness and health services near people. This is why there is also a majority today that the government in the context of the State budget for 2022 must come back to the Stortinget with initial measures to ensure more places of study in the fields of medicine, health, nursing and psychology. A stepping-up plan must be put in place for study places within these disciplines. The plan shall contain concrete measures for the establishment of training places at educational institutions and measures to ensure that students practice in the health sector, in line with the needs of society. The plan must also include measures to make it attractive for health workers to be in the sector. The ongoing pandemic has clearly revealed failure of the country’s preparedness in a number of areas. We needed more warm hands and wise heads in health care even before covid-19 hit the world. The centre party has been calling out for a long time on health education. Now it is time for it to be taken care of, and I am glad that the bulk of the population ensures here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e961	I would also like to start by drawing attention to proposal No. 15th It's a proposal that is clearly the daily task of the Council of State, so we're in no way against it, and when we see how the mood is here in the Chamber, we see no reason to vote against it either. I would like to warn you here that the government parties will support proposal No. 15th Then I can be sure that even if we decide today, it has been on the Council of State's table as long as he has been sitting in the chair. But what made me take the word separately is this: we hear the opposition discuss trust, how important it is to have confidence in the sector, and at the same time continue to criticise us for the way we have structured efficiency and holistical strength, precisely in order to achieve efficiency in the public sector as a whole. The economic freedom obtained through such budgetary intervention contributes to the release on the one hand of a great deal of money that allows you to invest precisely in universities and colleges, in research, in several places of study, while at the same time letting those who have their shoes on figure out how best to take that effect out. That's exactly what you've done to make sure you have confidence and secure bets. What must be the big paradox here is, as I mentioned in my first post, that when, for example. The working party in its alternative state budget makes targeted cuts in a number of institutions in the university and higher education sectors – without at all being able to point out the consequences of it – is playing a little risk, you ask me. You just don't know the consequences of it, and it's really at the limit of the unprofessional, at my discretion. When it comes to the curriculum for places of study, we have had a Document 8 on health education for consideration in the Committee. But I would like to remind you that we have also had a debate in Stortinget on many other courses that lack study places, whether within ICT, within cryptology or what it might be. There are many needs, there are many considerations to be weighed against each other. That is why I believe that the important thing about a plan is that the long-term plan for research and higher education shows a direction, and it will be in the individual state budgets that the necessary balances are made. I'll still stand by that. I think that's the right way to do it, and that's also the responsible way to do it, because then you see it in a whole and a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e972	There's no doubt that we're going to need more places to study in health and social sciences in the future. For this reason, this government, together with the Progress Party, also has a significant priority to increase higher education capacity. In fact, more than 20,000 students met for study start in the autumn of 2020 than in the autumn of 2013. For the government, it has also been important that the study places go to disciplines where there is a great need for skills in the years to come. For this reason, since 2014, we have allocated funds to some 1,600 new, earmarked courses in health education, of which 450 have been in nursing training and 230 in continuing training in nursing. Since 2013, appropriations for universities and higher education have increased by over 13 billion. kr. In addition to adjustments for price growth, there is an increase of more than 16 pst. The large bottleneck for training multiple nurses is the availability in practice places. Increased quality and capacity in practice places in municipal health and care services is crucial for the training of a sufficient number of qualified health professionals. It is not possible to significantly increase the number of study places without addressing capacity challenges for practice. For this reason, the Government has several proposals in the Single European Act on labour relations to help create more places of practice throughout the country. I am very pleased that the bulk of the population attends an investigation into strengthening the responsibilities of municipalities for the education of health and social students. The government has also launched a pilot scheme for more and better practices in municipal health and welfare services. In the long term, the aim is that the experience gained from pilot schemes will contribute to a wider range of practical sites. The pilots have, among other things: The aim is to develop new and innovative ways of organising and financing practice models that can help to increase capacity in the field of practice and use further-away municipalities. As far as medical training is concerned, in its proposal for a State budget for 2021, the government presented a target for a higher proportion of Norwegian doctors to be trained over time in Norway. A total of large numbers also share this ambition and have expressed an understanding in the attitude of the management message that the government has set in motion a work to see how the capacity for medical training can be expanded, and are responding to this work. Increased educational capacity in medicine involves, inter alia, costs of: scientific staff, construction and infrastructure, as well as new study places. Therefore, this work includes close contact with the relevant university environments as well as with the primary and specialist health services. An increase in educational capacity and the stepping up of new places of study in higher vocational education and higher education will have to be assessed and addressed in the annual budgetary processes, but I take the decision that we will also come back with an escalation plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e989	The core wall of the Norwegian health system is based on imports of health professionals and educational sites in other countries. In this picture, the government should have required universities in Norway to expand its capacity in the medical study. Unfortunately, we can look at that a long time later, because I note that the government does not only underestimate the need to expand the number of study places where there is an offer now; the government will not even allow the University of Stavanger to establish a new medical course. For the Progress Party, it is completely incomprehensible. You have to change the degree code. We in the Progress Party have proposed this, and I am pleased that the government has met us in part. The government parties argue against changing this for the medical study with a further investigation, and we start that in the Progress Party to the extent of getting quite used to. But the Workers' Party and the Center Party in this room use as their main argument against the University of Stavanger's desire for a new medical study fear of the competitive situation. I do not understand that. There is hardly any study in Norway with as much competition as the medical study. When almost half of the country's doctors take their education in another country, when there is a lack of medicine in Norway, and when the average character to enter the established medical studies is more than 6, why are not the Workers' Party and the Centre more afraid that we in Norway are going to lack doctors than that more universities are going to have the opportunity to offer this medical study? In particular, I believe that the Workers' Party and the Centre's view is that competition should lead to the maintenance of the medical study only by established universities when Norway is in a shortage of medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e996	The representative, Nina Sandberg, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1001	To the representative of Gudmundsen: It is true, as the representative says, that a lot of study places are needed in various studies around the country. To date, this has been done in the context of the annual budgets. The intention of the Workers' Party is to bring escalation plans into the long-term plan for research and higher education. It is predictable both for society and for the institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1006	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4. Case No. 5, 6 and 7 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1049	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The rapporteur does not seem to be present in the Chamber, so then the first speaker is Torstein Tvedt Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1058	I would like to extend my regards to the rapporteur, Mr Asphjell, who unfortunately has been prevented from taking part in the debate today. He sits at home in the trombone layers in the waiting quarantine, which has become a bit of a everyday life now under the corona. I am absolutely sure that he would have thanked the Committee for its good work on these three issues, and not least the SV, the Centre Party and the Progress Party for promoting the proposals that are being discussed. I think it is promising that it is such a wide range of proposals that have now been promoted that have a more practical school and a professional profession as a common denominator. These are proposals and policies that the Workers' Party has long called for. For too long, school developments have gone in the wrong direction. We've got a school that's become too sedentary, for theoretically, yes really too old-fashioned, where too many students and children fall from and too many also experience defeat over mastery. The Labour Party and I don't think the solution is an isolated professional profession for high school alone, less adjustments for high school alone, or a more practical school day in primary school alone. If we're going to reverse the evolution that's happened, it's about changing culture. If a few go to a more practical learning and a more practical school, it needs a more holistic approach. Then you have to see this in a context from the first class through time to learning. That is why it is now positive that so many parties see this need and that good proposals are being made. But it is disappointing that so few of the many proposals we have today are receiving a majority. Once again, the Stortinget reminds us that it needs a new majority and not least a new government to bring about real change. It is obvious that the right-hand side is constantly moving towards almost all of the proposals that are being promoted today. One notices that the Progress Party, after they came into opposition, has seen the light, but only on its own proposal when it comes to professionalism. That's a good start, and that makes us get a lot of good majority today. However, in general, many of the good proposals – the impatient, important proposals – that have been promoted today are unfortunately downgraded. That is why I would like to end by addressing the proposals which the Labour Party, together with other parties, is behind in the three positions, but I would also like to say that the Labour Party wants to vote in favour of proposal No. 2 in the Input. 414 S, i.e. the case of professional value creation, which is about strengthening the advisory service and the guidance service.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1071	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1076	I just want to start by saying that a little bit of continuity for the proposals that have been put forward, especially by the SV and the Center Party, which also Torstein Tvedt Solberg demonstrated well here now, is that you seem to have closed your eyes quite hard and well for everything that has happened in Norwegian school in recent years. Of course, I am talking about things like the renewal of the profession, the continuing training of teachers, that there has become more practical subjects in Norwegian school and has facilitated more practical teaching. That is why I am also a little surprised by some of the proposals that are being promoted today. But some of them, I think, are also important. One thing is our trade union workers. Without skilled workers Norway stops, and there is no doubt that we will need more skilled skilled workers in the years to come. That is why I am very pleased that one of the government's most important areas of activity has been professional investment. It has also produced results: several apply to a professional profession, several get a place to learn, and several also complete with vocational and bachelor's letters. So the arrows point in the right direction, and I'm very happy about that. But I'm also very happy that the bet continues. Because there is no doubt that we need both that more people apply for a profession and that more people will complete it. The completion reform, which we now have to deal with here at Stortinget, will be an important next step in the field of vocational training. Giving all students the right to complete and not just to start, to strengthen the professions, to facilitate more places of learning are important steps. Now I'm not going to say so much more about this today, because it's coming up for its own debate, but it's an important next step to continue to bet on the professions. I have no doubt that the proposers for these proposals have good intentions. But as I was inside, it looks like some people have completely closed their eyes to what has happened in Norwegian school in the last few years, and that applies to the Swedish representative proposal. It is consistent that most of the proposals in this proposal for a representative have either already been implemented, are part of ongoing processes, await evaluation prior to the implementation of the measures, or are simply rather expensive budgetary issues that should be addressed in an ordinary budgetary procedure. I am perhaps most surprised that several of the proposals in the SV's representative proposal involve a very high level of detail management, both in terms of the design of teacher training, the capacity for action of teachers and the freedom of action of the municipalities. It's very surprising from a party that's talking on the inside and out saying that we have to trust the teachers, at the same time to direct detail not only in this matter, but also in previous matters. It has also demonstrated a very lack of confidence in the ability of municipalities to carry out statutory tasks, but also to facilitate local needs. So we're not going to support any of the proposals there, and that's why. With regard to the proposal of the Centre Party, that all schools have to offer employment, the same applies to a certain extent. I myself am very excited about this subject, not least after visiting Søndre Land Youth School, which showed how well you were working on it, and how popular it was among the students. I would like more schools to offer it, but there is something that all schools have today. We have introduced a new practical craftsmanship in high school. What surprises me is that the Center Party then wants to override and instruct schools to choose one particular practical choice. This should be up to the schools themselves. I fully agree that more people should have the opportunity to do so, and this weekend, in the Right, we adopted our own party programme, in which we are in favour of a secondary school reform, among other things. a compulsory professional choice will be one of the things we work with, as well as more practical education. But it's not the Center Party or we here at the Stortinget that are going to sit and decide which elective schools are going to offer. They should be able to adapt this to local circumstances. With regard to the proposal for a representative of the Progress Party, I have to say that there are many good proposals in it. It may not be so strange that it is, because very much of the government's efforts in the professional fields have been made in cooperation with the Progress Party. We share a lot of the same problem description, and we've worked out a lot of good suggestions together. The reason why we do not support some of these is the same as for the others: there are proposals under consideration in the implementation reform, which require budgets, etc. I would say a little more about the proposals of the Progress Party, because that's very good about it, and also something we don't agree with, but I see that the time is running out, so I better get back. But what I want to say is that the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, in any case, wants to support the proposal No. One, two, nine and seventeen of the proposals of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. So I'll rather come back and tell you a little bit more about why later.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1095	By doing so, we shall put an end to the debate on matters. 5, 6 and 7, and call for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1111	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting, and we will start with the remaining issues from Tuesday 11 May, the 10-24 issues on agenda no. Eighty-eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1123	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Silje Hemdal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party; the proposals No 3 and 4, from Silje Hemdal on behalf of the Progress Party, proposal No 5, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the introduction of autonomous exit rights for all fathers/mothers, initially for leave equivalent to the parental quota.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1152	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the laws and regulations so that it becomes up to each parent to decide how they will distribute the parental leave between themselves.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1167	There is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose more flexibility in the way parental leave withdrawals are made.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1184	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘At the end of 2022, the Government asks to carry out an evaluation of the parental leave scheme which entered into force on 1 July 2018. The evaluation shall primarily address the experience of parents, the child perspective, the health consequences for mother and the experience of breast-feeding as a result of the change in the parental and maternal ratio.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1202	There is a vote on proposal No. One from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to propose that father be granted the right to withdrawal of parental leave on an independent basis.’ Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1226	The Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1240	There were several people who voted incorrectly. So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1259	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Else-May Norderhus on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Environmental Party of the Greens proposal No 2, from Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 3 and 4, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens proposal No 5, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1 by the Labour Party and the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government, for the purpose of introducing, a ban on any use of rubber cullet.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1291	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for a ban on the use of rubber cullet on new artificial grass tracks from 2023 and a ban on the use of rubber cullet from 2025’.» Red has announced support for the proposal. The Greens have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1308	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 by the Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a ban on the re-slicing of car tyres and on any new use of cast rubber cullet where there is a risk of exposure and leaching.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Stortinget to propose a compensation scheme for those affected by a ban on all uses of loose rubber cullet, as well as a mapping of alternatives to rubber cullet and any associated Norwegian nutritional interventions.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1332	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for a compensation scheme for the sport and clubs concerned for additional costs triggered by new requirements for the operation and maintenance of sport courses, provided for in new Chapter 23A of the Regulation amending the Regulation on pollution control [[(design and operation of sports tracks using plastic loose filling material) (FOR-2021-04-07-1096)]] Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1357	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1376	During the debate Seher Aydar put forward a proposal on behalf of Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Presidency is asked to mark the 50th anniversary of the ten oil bids by setting up a visible plaque or similar in the landfill building which clearly conveys the contents of the bids, and by other relevant means to facilitate debate and reflection on these principles and their topicality.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1407	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Ruth Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 2, from Terje Halleland on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 3, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens There is a vote on proposal No. 3, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal requiring oil companies to expand as much offshore sea wind as they need for electrification and to pay for these investments.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1434	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the submission of a plan for electrification of the cap using offshore sea wind.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1456	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to stop further electrification of Norwegian cap with electricity from land.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1480	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 5 and 6, by Ole André Myhrvold, on behalf of the Centre Party, There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to stop immediately all further adaptation to EU energy legislation and adaptation to the EU Energy Agency Acer’. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Commission requests the Government of the EEA Committee to reject any examination of future acts relating to the EU Energy Market Package 3 or 4.’; The Progress Party and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1528	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1-4, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to start the process of withdrawing Norway from the EU Energy Agency [[ACER]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to stop any transfer of power over the energy sector to the EU and to start work on increasing Norwegian sovereignty in this area again.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the use of the EEA veto against the transfer of authority in the EU Clean Energy package.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking to return to Stortinget with an assessment of the energy regulatory acts not yet incorporated in the EEA Agreement, such as the Building Energy Directives and the Energy Efficiency Directives, and how the corresponding national rules can be introduced outside the EEA Agreement.’ The Progress Party and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1569	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Ruth Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens Proposal No. 2 was changed during the debate and now reads: ‘The government is asked to investigate and return to the Storting in the context of the State budget of 2022, proposing a fair and user-funded balancing mechanism for network rental. There is a vote on this proposal – in amended form – by the Socialist Left and the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1597	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1602	There were several, at least three, who voted incorrectly. Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1614	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for compensation to be paid to those receiving housing aid who do not receive reduced costs as a result of a new network lease balancing scheme.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1631	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the government to return to Stortinget with a model for balancing transmission tariffs ensuring similar network rental across the country.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1656	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e1675	During the debate Bente Stein Mathisen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party, Left and independent representative Ulf Leirstein. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 20, first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: The Civil Service Officer may, without prejudice to professional secrecy, require the person covered by the subject-matter of Section 4 to provide any particulars and documents necessary for the performance of duties under this Act. Apart from this, government notes and documents are directly linked to them. The Ombudsman may set a time limit within which to comply with such a requirement.’;» The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2149	Alternatively, the first paragraph of Section 20 of Section A of the suspension shall be replaced by the proposal of the Right, the Party of Progress, Left and independent representative Ulf Leirstein. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2164	It goes over the rest of A.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2174	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2184	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2306	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Seher Aydar on behalf of Red the proposals No 5-7, from Audun Lighthouse on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to exercise its power of ownership in the arms company Nammo to shut down Nammo’s export office in the United Arab Emirates, which is involved in the war against Yemen.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2330	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from Red. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks for an understanding of the concepts of ‘war’ or ‘civil war’ in the Government’s 1959 Declaration to be amended to prevent the sale of military material to countries participating in armed conflicts with major civil disorders and to return to the Great Government in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to examine the distinction between product categories A and B in guidelines for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ handling of applications for export of defence equipment, as well as technologies and services for military purposes of 28 February 1992 should be amended in order to better ensure that Norwegian military equipment is not used in violation of international law.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, by granting a licence for the export of military material, also assesses the future risk of this material being used in breach of Norway’s international obligations, as required by the President: United Nations Arms Trade Agreement [[ATT]] The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2359	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-7, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an immediate stop in all exports of strategic goods to countries participating in the civil war in Yemen.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to set up a public body to carry out an overall review of the Norwegian export control regime, including legislation and the administrative aspect of export control, in order to ensure effective and verifiable compliance with the 1959 Decision of the Grand Duchy and the 1997 Precision, as well as with international commitments. In addition, the sample shall assess the need for further clarifications, in line with Norwegian international, humanitarian and human rights obligations.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an independent review of exports of strategic products to the countries which have participated in the Yemen war with a mandate to investigate the risk of Norwegian-produced strategic products being used in the Yemen war.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2634	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2644	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2656	During the debate Emilie Enger Mehl put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to explain how the Norwegian authorities can facilitate a more transparent and democratic process in the treatment of EEA-relevant laws and regulations.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2673	The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2685	We vote for the first thing on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2694	Case No. 1 is the second time that the law is dealt with and applies to the act 105. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2724	The next speaker is Roy Steffensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2729	I am pleased with the support given by the previous speaker to the effect that the proposals of the Progress Party would come from the governmental parties. I also think that the representative explained in a good way part of the way in which the Progress Party decides the different issues that lie here today, on all the proposals, and why we think that our proposal for a representative is what it is worth spending the most time on. Then I heard that on behalf of the rapporteur, it was said that one was happy that the Progress Party had finally seen the light. I would then like to remind you that since 2013, the Progress Party has been involved in implementing the years of vocational training in order to raise the status of the professions, we have changed the supply structure to be more in line with the needs of the labour market, we have the professional common subjects in such a way that more of the training is adapted to the job to be done, and we have allocated money to the gift-raising scheme for equipment, increased equipment-granting, demands for apprentices in public tenders, introduced a new, practical and labour-oriented crafts profession as an electoral profession in secondary school, introduced a separate branding system for apprenticeships and introduced the right to study competence after completion of vocational and vocational training. And we have, through several occasions, increased the apprenticeship grant, which in practice remained completely at ease under the government of Stoltenberg. If we've seen the light, the representative Tvedt Solberg has been in the dark for almost eight years. The Progress Party is very proud of the professional promise we made during the period we were in government, and we see that the policy is working. Over the last few years, we've repeatedly beat all the scores in the number of classrooms. Several apply for vocational training and others complete. The arrows point in the right direction, but the Progress Party is concerned that we are not in the target, and has therefore promoted one of today's three representative proposals that are being discussed, as we believe that there is a need for a professional lift version 2.0. One of the most important steps we have taken in the year that has been, and that has had a great effect, has been to increase the apprenticeship grant. Today, we propose that this should continue, while proposing to remove the employer’s fee for apprentices. Unfortunately, both proposals fall, as neither the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party nor the Labour Party want to support these proposals. I think it's strange that these parties talk very much about themselves as parties standing on the side of the apprentices, when they don't want to support two very concrete proposals that would have given a clear effect in reducing the queue of apprentices without a place to study. Because even though a lot of good work has been done in recent years, thousands of young people are still waiting to be taught. It's the most pointless line to stand in, because it's about completing your education to get to work. I'm not going to spend a lot of time complaining about what we don't get the majority for. So, even if we do not fully support all our 17 proposals, we, by an alternate majority, will help to strengthen the counselling service, strengthen the hospitation system for professionals and strengthen the recruitment grant system. We ask for the development of an industry standard for teaching equipment and a minimum standard, and we get a majority in order for the government to increase the amount of equipment for the most expensive courses of study in higher education. I would like to see that we got to much more today, but note that if we are to get a real professional boost version 2.0, the Progress Party must have increased influence and impact. For Norway, almost 100,000 more skilled workers will be needed over the next 20 years. Then we have two alternatives. It's either importing them or educating them themselves, and the Progress Party is concerned that we're going to educate them ourselves. After the elections, we will resume the fight for a new, strengthened and improved professional career, because we need to pay more attention to the value-creating professions and the important role of skilled workers in the coming period. With that, I address all the proposals The Advance Party is a part of that that has not already been addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2750	The representative Roy Steffensen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2755	The centre party wants a greater balance between practical and preparatory education. The applicant figures for secondary education now show that the students themselves are seeking half-way to the two directions, either for further education and study or for vocational training and qualification. We need to provide better care for half of students who want practical and vocational secondary education, and provide students with motivation for studying insights into and motivation from practical challenges in primary school. The students are whole people in development, who should not only be able to master PISA. They must be able to master life and a working day after school. The Centre Party wants a more practical and active school day for both pupils, learning and teachers. The party of progress has been in government for nearly seven years without ensuring it, so there's obviously another government, with a new prime minister, to get the development we want. Fortunately, the bulk of the population today show a willingness to take action when the Progress Party joins with the opposition on several good proposals. Unfortunately, not all good proposals are given a majority, but we are taking steps in the right direction. When new curricula open up new ways of working with learning and subjects, we need to follow-up with actions and support for more practical and active learning. The main contribution of the centre party today is linked to our proposal for a representative on the labour market. The central party has previously referred to high school as a neglected part of the school. For this reason, both employment and educational choices are important subjects for equipping students to make one of life's major choices: the choice of the line in higher education. This will also make the secondary school more related to working life and the motivation for schooling: a complete education and tools for living a good life. All students should be given the opportunity to do so. Later this spring, the Storting will adopt a right of completion in high school, which in turn makes greater demands on the basis of which students come from primary school. Right announced at the national meeting on the weekend a secondary school reform. My tip is to look at the Central Party proposal here today and the background for them. If the Right is as positive to the labour market as they say here today, they should read the rules governing the electoral profession and support the proposals of the Centre Party. The centre party wants to focus more on learning and to a lesser extent on testing in primary school. In addition, teachers need time and confidence to focus on this. Practical and active learning requires teachers and resources at school. It is time-consuming to facilitate, adapt and follow up all students. The proposals that it becomes the majority of today, take a lot of care of themselves. We are now going to increase knowledge of vocational education in the counselling service at school. Furthermore, the large numbers will strengthen the recruitment grant scheme for people outside the school sector who want to take vocational training to work in school and strengthen the hospitation scheme for professionals. The link between retiring schools and apprenticeships must also be closer through apprenticeships, so that the content of vocational training is relevant. The balance between the needs of apprentices and the labour market needs to be ensured in order to ensure that more people complete their vocational letters and more companies are given a highly needed level of competence. The level of competence also depends on equipment, as pointed out by the Central Party in the alternative State budget. Therefore, an industry standard with a minimum level of teaching equipment in secondary technical subjects will be important. Such a standard may be followed up by coordination of the purchase and maintenance of the equipment. On top of that, the majority will increase the amount of equipment allocated to the most expensive courses of study in higher education. This ensures better conditions for students to complete their initial education, motivation and relevance to working life. Unfortunately, we do not win with proposals for changes to the Training Act to allow all upper secondary school students to choose a job. Nor do we receive a majority of measures to facilitate the continuing training of teachers in the field of employment, good guidance on the preparation of local curricula in the field, or further efforts to increase the ability of young people to choose and to increase the proportion of practical and aesthetic subjects on an hourly basis. In the long term, the proposals that come forward contribute to a balance between theory and practice, but reputation and recruitment do not come without good content and good national follow-up. It wants the Center Party to continue working on the proposals we're part of. The proposals we have with SV, I will address them, and I will also give a brief explanation of vote. Of course, the central party is voting primarily for our own proposals, but we will also vote in favour of proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party, in Innst. 412 S for 2020-2021, and secondary for Proposal No 1, from the Labour Party, the Advance Party and SV, in the Inner. 414 S for 2020-2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2772	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2777	In the latest edition of Education News, Øivind of Moi and Mosjö tells about his experience of high school: «Dictity analysis feels like a stranglehold on my appetite for learning. Why is it not possible for someone who will become a mechanic to learn more about this already in high school? [[...]] The worst thing is that there's so little practical happening. We're mostly sitting and writing. It's boring. I don't feel like I'm getting anything done." The fourteen-year-old is not alone in feeling this. The student survey shows that the motivation for the students falls from the fifth grade. Between 7th class and 10th class reaches the bottom. I think there are a lot of people in high school like Øivind, unfortunately. After eight years of our old-fashioned view of learning, we need to improve the school. Motivation and learning are closely linked. When the students are discouraged, they are chained, and when they do not feel that the school day is relevant, it is difficult to provide good learning. The student survey figures are disappointing reading. Already in the 5th grade, motivation starts to fall and reaches its 10th grade, when the students start in high school. This is very worrying. A more practical and varied school day with physical activity where homework is done at school will provide more motivation. Children and young people are not prepared for the future to master as many learned responses as possible in the shortest possible time. In-depth learning gives students lasting knowledge and provides more learning. The school shall have room for creativity and culture and shall cultivate curiosity and the joy of mastering and learning. A more practical school requires new forms of teaching and new ways of working. This requires active students, closer peer-to-peer cooperation and visible leaders. It is necessary to set aside sufficient time to allow for active learning, more practical subjects and training from which all children can benefit. In recent years, we have seen an increased theorization of the school where children are measured by standardized tests. The school must develop a greater diversity of skills. The choice of vocational training at the youth level is different and students achieve different competences related to the vocational training programmes. We need to create an environment for practical, vocational training, and professional educational choices need to be made more committed and meaningful for more students. To the representative Kristensen: trade renewal alone does not change Norwegian school. If we are to have more practical and varied teaching with time for play and physical activity, it must be facilitated, for example. by having good room for practical instruction. This government has not lifted a finger for that. Instead, they have cut out the entire interest compensation scheme that gave Norwegian municipalities the opportunity to invest. The accommodation of the classrooms as well as the lack of gymnasiums, school kitchen, music rooms, looprooms, swimming pools, art and craft rooms, drawing halls and handicraft rooms is not well enough in line with what you know about students' learning. The bench must regain its honor and dignity and must enter from the first class. Norway should be a knowledge nation, and we need more good professionals. Most people who complete a profession get a job when they're done. Nevertheless, too few young people choose a profession. By raising the status and knowledge of the profession, we can help more young people to choose this path to a future profession. SV will strengthen the apprenticeship system and provide an apprenticeship guarantee. We will strengthen efforts to combat non-response and ensure that everyone receives a high-quality, high-quality training offer regardless of background and place of residence. SV will ensure that the students have sufficient equipment. Many professional disciplines have too little equipment to provide proper education. I am therefore addressing the proposals that SV has on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2801	The representative of Mona Fagerås then brought up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2806	We are debating a number of representative proposals dealing with issues such as work experience, practical subjects, increased recruitment to the profession, professionalism and value creation. In recent years, we have seen a historical investment in the professional sector. Now there are more people applying for a professional course, more people are getting a place to learn, and more people are finishing with a letter. It is very enjoyable, but the bet must continue, and the government's commitment to the professions and increased recruitment to the professions continues, not least through Notifying. St. 21 for 2020-2021 – Completion reform. Key pillars of this big message are the introduction of a right to complete secondary education, the right to take a new letter and the right to a place of study or equivalent offer. The reform of completion includes measures that form the basis of close cooperation between higher education, educational establishments and the labour market. Cooperation between secondary schools, vocational schools, businesses and research environments is also central to the government's proposal to establish centres of excellence in the professional field. In recent years, there has been a historically high increase in apprenticeship grants, making it easier for enterprises to recruit apprentices. A label scheme for apprenticeships is in place to make the enterprises with apprentices visible and to establish national registers for apprenticeships. The development is going in the right direction. In recent years, the proportion of students applying for vocational training has increased. In 2021, there are 1 000 more applicants for vocational training than for study specialists at Vg1. Over the course of several years, more people have been given a place to learn. There are also fewer people who fall from high school. Thus, the reform of completion also proposes a right to a place of learning or an equivalent offer. It is important that pupils receive qualified advice on education choices, job opportunities and the labour market. This is essential for students to be able to make good choices and to counter wrong choices, re-elections and non-responses. There shall be extensive cooperation between the various career guidance and counselling services. The Government will facilitate increased cooperation between different actors in the field of guidance, especially between the school and the follow-up service and the state-of-the-art career centres, as stated in the Single European Act on the implementation reform. Skilled vocational teachers are a prerequisite for good vocational and vocational training. A number of measures are included to recruit more professionals and to contribute to the increased competence of vocational teachers in the Vocational Training Strategy. The development of professional competence is distinguished in a separate system where the means for developing skills go directly to the counties. A central part of this scheme is the possibility of hospitation. The government has prioritised several measures to support the development of competences in recent years, and in the Single European Act, it is clear that this will continue. Good and proper dimensioning of secondary education is essential for the success of the completion and completion of higher education – not least in vocational education programmes. One of the reasons why vocational students do not complete and exist is that there is insufficient consistency between the dimensioning of education programmes and the availability of apprenticeships. The counties have different traditions of balancing pupils’ educational needs and applications for secondary education with the needs of the labour market. We know that students who get their first choice are more likely to complete higher education, and that also needs to be taken into account. However, it is essential that there are educational places available for the students to complete and pass. For this reason, the vocational training student has a very central role in contributing to ensuring the correct dimensioning and quality of vocational training. I am pleased that the government in the Communication on the reform of completion indicates that they will come back to the proposal of the Training Law Committee to give a high priority to society’s needs for competence in the dimensioning of secondary education, in the context of the Training Act. Today’s legislation opens up many different ways of organising training. Municipalities are quite free to organise different training models. I find reason to point out that both in this area and in several other areas, in the representative proposals we are discussing today, there are a number of proposals that I believe are completely unnecessary detailed management of both schools and school owners. The left looks forward to the completion reform – with the right to complete secondary education, the right to take a new letter and the right to a place of study or equivalent offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2827	The intention to make school education more practical to facilitate a school experience that can challenge the entire human being is fully shared. That is why, as implemented from the autumn of 2020, trade renewal has also introduced a curriculum that contributes to a more practical and exploratory day-to-day school, while learning through play is underlined as an important principle in training. A school to challenge the entire human being must give the practical-esthetic subjects an important place. As a whole, these subjects currently represent approximately 50 % of the total number of subjects. a quarter of the school's total hours and is therefore an important part of the school's education today. In addition, the government has introduced a new and practical craft as an electoral subject at the youth level. This is a subject which will facilitate cooperation with local employment for, among others. to be able to learn what different occupations mean for pupils. Despite good intentions, I feel that several of the proposals we are dealing with today are a major factor in the teacher's freedom of method and involve a detailed management that there is reason to warn against. Entrepreneurship of all schools in the labour market is a major factor in the ability of each school to organise different types of choice courses that can meet a wide range of interests from students with different assumptions. There should be a local space for action in terms of both the choice of a school offering out of the interest of the students and the organisation of the teaching of the practical-esthetic subjects. The same applies to content and methods of teacher training. It may seem that some people believe that knowledge and understanding are largely gathered in this room, and that those who work on these questions daily need to be informed about how things should be implemented and organised. This is a detailed management attempt I want to warn against. Should all students be offered e.g. if there are one or thirty students who wish to pursue the electoral profession in a school, it will require resources that go beyond the ability of others to meet their wishes. That can't possibly be the purpose. The government has carried out a historical professional effort. This effort continues through the reform of completion. There is a great need for more skilled workers in the future. Professionals are a field of activity because we need more skilled workers to secure our welfare society in the future. We want vocational training to become more practical and less theoretical. With the statistics available today, Norway will lack skilled workers in the future. According to the SSB, we could need as many as 70,000 more skilled workers in 2035. So we're going to get to the goal, we need a greater degree of recruitment. We need a higher degree of implementation. We need more apprenticeships and more adapted courses. We are pleased that more people are now applying for a professional course. There has been a trend change over several years. We see that the recruitment process is getting better and that more people are completing it. That's good, too. But this is a bet we need to continue on several levels also in the next few years. Greater implementation is one of the major challenges in the training process, as we see it. Many young people today do not get through high school, which leads to permanent exclusion from work. It's a major societal challenge. Measures such as early intervention and the introduction of the teaching norm believe that we will have an impact on long-term drop-out in high school. Fewer students per teacher provide closer and better follow-up for each student in primary school and provide a better basis for mastering the transition from primary to secondary school. It is also important to facilitate the development of strong national professional environments, which can contribute to improving the quality of vocational education and training. It is therefore necessary to work systematically on continuing training in order to meet the future's skills needs in working life. Increased quality in the professional field is much about linking theory and practice in a better way in the daily work at secondary school. This is precisely why it is important that we look at the structure of vocational education and training, and at what is happening in schools, and not least in learning processes, in order to link it to working life. In the coming years, the importance of the professions will be even greater because we see that there is a shortage of people with professional competence in society. We need to facilitate more professional competence development, professional development and research in the field, because in today's working life we find skilled skilled workers who are not only good electricians, health professionals or carpenters, but who also take responsibility and participate in important innovation work. Therefore, we need to work towards a higher level of recognition of professional competence, both in the education sector and in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2848	The school has a edifice as well as an educational assignment. The overall training and composition of the subjects shall contribute to a broad basis for lifelong learning for students. We are now debating three representative proposals that have the common aim that they are about students having a varied and practical school day – an objective that I think we all agree on. A knowledge school does not mean a still school at all. More variation and adaptation to each individual student also mean more learning and more knowledge. At the same time, however, it is important for the government to provide teachers with the necessary educational space to adapt training to their students. We have just introduced new curricula. Several disciplines have had a more exploratory and practical rotation, and better provision is made for exploratory teaching practices. I believe that there is now reason to let the school know and apply the new curricula before we may make any new changes. Professional renewal is evaluated and knowledge should be used both to adjust the course along the way and to provide a basis for future policy development. But we don't have that kind of knowledge yet. I believe that several of the proposals from the representatives add up to an unfortunate detail management of the school. For example, the municipalities have: already responsible for having appropriate school facilities and necessary equipment, furniture and educational equipment. The introduction of a national regulation to ‘ensure that all primary schools have halls, music rooms, nature halls, school kitchens, gymnasiums and suitable spaces for art and crafts’, however, adds to a state-level detailed regulation that I believe we should be withholding. One way to ensure students more variety and practical subjects in school everyday life is to give them more freedom of choice. I am, like the representatives, concerned that students should have different options at youth level and that they should have work experience. I believe that the students have more opportunities to do so today. First of all, all young people shall have a specialised choice of education. Here it is possible to combine education at school with testing and practice at a workplace. With the renewal of the trade union, the government also introduced practical crafts as an electoral profession. I can also mention that the school owner has the opportunity to adapt the training further through various forms of flexibility in the professional and hourly distribution. A potentially unintended consequence of making the profession compulsory to offer may be that some schools, for example: must offer fewer foreign languages. I believe that such a kind of control would be unfortunate, and it reduces the local space for action. I trust that the schools have the best starting point for the students to consider what alternatives they can offer. The same applies to the content of teacher training. The framework plans are overarching and the management of teacher training institutions is carefully balanced in order to meet the professional space for action and the state's need for teacher training management. I am also concerned that primary education contributes to good recruitment to a professional profession. For this reason, the new curricula should help to provide primary school students with the basis they need to move forward in all the different directions and possibilities of secondary education. In their proposal for a professional value-raising profession, representatives have shown positive developments in vocational and vocational training in recent years. There are several applicants for vocational training. More people get a place to learn, and more complete and take a letter. That's very good. This is a description that I share, and I am very happy that we are now seeing results of the government's efforts in vocational and vocational training. But there are still too many people who fall off in the profession, and we still need more apprenticeships and more adapted training courses. The proposed completion reform shall ensure the right to training until it has been completed and passed. The notification thus reinforces the efforts already made by the government in the professional field. The government, like the Committee, is also involved in higher vocational education and training, and therefore we are presenting our own strategy for the vocational education sector before the summer. Professionals depend on up-to-date training equipment to be relevant and of good quality. I don't think industry standards and minimum requirements are the way to go. The government is now undertaking a project with the social partners in which models for financing equipment in schools are to be developed and researched. The aim is to find the models that provide sustainable and long-term financing of professional equipment. At the end of the day, I would like to point out that several of the representatives' proposals are costly and should be carefully examined before they may be taken as part of the ordinary budgetary procedure. It will also be important to hear those affected by these proposals. However, I would like to end by stressing that I feel that the representatives and I have the same goal, so I just want to warn you that, in our eagerness to achieve these goals, we are taking the necessary room for action from the teachers, the schools and the school owners. We should have confidence that they are using this space of action to the benefit of the students and to carry out their broad societal mission.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2872	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2877	It's not that many years since the Center Party felt alone talking about practical and active subjects like we're doing here today, but fortunately it's happened a little since. We have long been concerned about the theoretization of the school in general and the lack of recruitment to the professions in particular. The reason for the weak recruitment to vocational training is found in primary and secondary school. Where government parties focus on more of the same, more of the theory, the Center Party believes that we need to develop more choices and more practical and active learning, among other things. in secondary school. That's why we were very happy when we started working under the red-green government. The course provides practical instruction and a taste to arouse interest in professional subjects, but there are too few students who are given the opportunity to choose it. Why does the government believe it is important for young people to be able to choose two-three foreign languages, while the same right should not apply in order to choose a practical profession as an occupational occupation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2884	Firstly, I do not entirely share the reality description of the representative Knutsdatter Strand. There are a lot of parties that have been talking about professional matters for years, but the most important thing is not to talk about it, but actually to do something, and what we see now is that we have a very positive development. There has been an increase in the number of applicants for vocational training for several years now, and as many have referred to here from the pulpit in this debate, there have been 1 000 more applicants for vocational training in the year than to the subjects preparing the study. I think that shows that we've had a revolution both in the development of higher education, we've had a revolution in the counselling service, and we've also had a revolution in primary school in showing what to choose from, and offering students taste buds from a professional profession. I believe that very much has been done correctly, and I believe that by continuing with many of the efforts we have started, we will see that the positive development continues. And I believe that it would be very unfortunate to limit the local space of action by imposing an obligation on everyone to offer this subject. If there is a student basis for this, the subject will generally be offered.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2891	Just the last state council picks up here, that there are some students who don't get the offer if they go to one too small school or are in a part of the country where there aren't enough people, the Senterpartiet believes is a great weakness. We think it would be much better if all students actually had the opportunity to choose also the occupation if either the motivation fell in other subjects or you have an inherent eagerness after leaving out for practical and active learning and skills and skills. So why is it only 20 pst? of the secondary schools offering this? And what does the Council of State think is the reason, when so many of those who have the subject have such good feedback?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2896	I don't know if we have enough knowledge to be able to determine exactly what's causing it. But what we know is that there are at least a lot of opportunities to offer work practices in high school today, both through vocational education and training, through the field of work and in other ways. It is also possible to use the flexibility of the professional and hourly distribution to provide students with a more practical school day-to-day orientation. And I just have to say that I think it is a little surprising that a rapporteur party like the Senter Party leaves so little trust in both the school owners and the individual schools as to how they can find good solutions for their students. There is a large space for action in both the subject and the hour distribution we have today, in today's curriculums and in today's timetables to ensure that students receive practical training, and I don't think that students get better in Norwegian classrooms if we control it in detail from this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2901	There's an inherent injustice in our high school system. If you choose specialisation, you are almost guaranteed three years of education, and you have to finish after three years. If you choose a profession, you're at risk of falling away after two years because you don't get the necessary apprenticeship space. This is an injustice that I think we have to look at and do something about in this hall together. Does the Council agree with me that this is an injustice? What does the Council of State say to all the thousands who do not receive the necessary and important apprenticeship every year to complete their education, and what does the government do to enable professionals to learn?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2908	There is no doubt that it is important to complete a course of vocational training that you get an opportunity to get an apprenticeship and thus you can take a letter in the way that I think we all agree is the best. This is why we have implemented a wide range of measures in recent years to ensure more places of learning. Among other things, we have increased the grant to the enterprise employing an apprentice. We've also increased the grant to the county councils, which makes the placement of apprenticeship places go better. It also means that now, perhaps with the exception of just under the pandemic, there have been a record number of young people who have been given apprenticeship. I think we need to continue our efforts to make sure that even more people get apprenticeship space. We have presented a completion reform for the Stortinget, where we are also concerned with the students who do not get apprenticeship. I think it'll always be students who don't get it, and they have to get a full alternative. The option we've been offering them for years now, Vg3 at school, a year at school instead of two years in business, is not a good alternative. A large number of students choose not to do so and thus fail to complete their education.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2915	Despite all the measures that the government believes they have taken, there are still several thousand who don't get an apprenticeship every year. It's about approx. 5 000 students in the small country of Norway. I mean that number is too high, and that it's not done enough. In addition, we know that too few opt for a profession. I ask myself if one of the reasons just might be that they don't know they can't finish if they start professional because they don't get apprenticeship space. SV believes that an apprenticeship guarantee must be provided. This has been opposed by the government parties, including the Left Party. Why does the government not want such a guarantee?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2920	There is a main reason why I do not think it is right to provide such a guarantee. This means that a guarantee must be given on behalf of private companies in this country, that they must enter into contracts with people. Consider, for example: in this year: If everyone in the restaurant and hotel industries had been required to offer an apprenticeship, even if there is absolutely nothing to do and even if everything is closed – then I believe such a guarantee is impossible to provide. The only way we could satisfy that guarantee was that we had to control the educational choices of the youth to a much greater extent than today. For some lines, of course, it's not hard to get apprentice space, because there's few going there, and demand is high. But I also believe that a choice of education is so important for the individual's life that it should be much up to what the youth himself wants to study and want to learn. So I don't want that kind of management of youth education choices. To give such a promise on behalf of Norwegian companies and to force the youth into education they do not want to fulfill a guarantee, I believe would be totally wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2927	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2934	The representative Steffensen pointed out that someone was probably sitting quite in the dark. In my post I was also interested in the fact that you seem to have closed your eyes when you haven't got everything that was actually done in Norwegian school in the last few years. But I actually don't think anyone is actually sitting in the dark, and I really don't think anyone has closed their eyes, but you just don't want to recognise the reality we actually live in. Now I don't expect the opposition to give standing applause for the government's policy, but you could at least acknowledge what happened, and not pretend that the situation in Norwegian school is something quite different than what it is. The school has not become any more theoretical during this government. One quarter of the subjects, e.g. in secondary schools, are practical and aesthetic. In addition, they have electoral skills. In addition, they have educational choices. They also have room, as the Minister of Knowledge was in it, to change the professional and hourly distribution to ensure even more. Alternative training arenas are provided. In the case of bets on teachers, as if teachers in practical and aesthetic subjects were not receiving continuing training. That's not true either. Many hundreds of teachers have received continuing training in practical and aesthetic subjects. Thirty million. kr of the bet is just earmarked for teachers in practical and aesthetic subjects. Guidance on the use of curricula is sought. It exists. So, there's a lot of things done that you don't want to recognise. But then I fully agree that we should not just pat ourselves on the shoulder, either. We want to move on. It's necessary. Mr Steffensen now called this professional 2.0. I believe that we are actually in the process of doing that. It is called the completion reform, which is full of measures, both for better guidance, that more people should be able to choose, that we should have more learning places. We're working on a new training law, and one of the most important things there, I mean, and one of the most important measures to actually get more apprenticeships, is better dimensioning. The Minister of Knowledge was in on it. Obviously, we can't control in detail what all young people should choose, but we have to make sure that our county politicians actually dimension the study offer based on where there are available apprenticeships. That's what's one of the big weaknesses today, that you choose to bring up students in schools that don't have any classrooms for at the other end. I believe that it is simply bad done. It's one of the most important things we can do to succeed in getting more places to learn. Then you talk like nothing happened to the equipment situation. Firstly, this government has increased equipment grants, and secondly, we have launched a large research project, just to be able to have a good funding and sustainable development. So, at least, look at what's done. If you want to participate in and further develop Norwegian school, you actually have to recognise where we stand today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2950	The right takes a lot of speaking time to break our proposals here today, but at the same time promotes a reform of high school where one of the points is a practical choice. It seems to me that it is a contradiction then to be critical of the job proposal and the points we are raising here today. Maybe we're really more agreeable than it might look like. I think it is very nice that the representative Kristensen has visited Søndre Land high school and heard how good their experience there is. Then I really recommend that both the Council of State and the Right take a study trip to Northern Country, because they have experienced how that rule prevents them from offering employment, even though they are very, very keen. There are, in fact, some limitations we should have done something about, and that is what the Central Party is talking about with our proposal for a representative. Then I want to spend some time talking about an excellent example, namely Gausdal Secondary School, also in my beautiful Uppland Grand Choice District. As in the South and North, that is 30-40 pst. of the pupils who choose to take up the occupation each year. There they have been able to make a career a subject where people are proud and interested in choosing a practical and active grant for their daily lives. It is not a homogeneous group that chooses the subject, but it is students who share an commitment to practice and practical subjects. Examples of subjects they offer are wood production and a mech. department, and in addition they have food and food courses, where the two days a week cook for the student canteen. They have also had plumbing, where they have visited local enterprises that contribute to education and professionals. After nine years with this subject, they have some experience. The positive thing is that everything indicates that school environment and learning go straight and get better. Students are more satisfied with school in general, and there are less behavioural problems. The negative is that the principal could tell in a meeting with the Center Party a few weeks ago that the subject is too much based on idealism, and that reaches only 20 pst. of the country's secondary schools offer the subject, they remain alone in assessing and improving their offer. There are few other schools to share experiences with. They also experience that this is unexplained in education and training. The examination is demanding when there is a lack of interest from other schools and environments, and it is not taken as seriously, they experience. Of course, resources are also restrictive. The main thing here is that the students are good at many levels, both theoretical and practical, but the subject of work strengthens them in all disciplines and all learning. They have some contact with businesses, but there is a great potential here, because the labour market is forward-looking.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2965	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5–7.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2982	At the request of the Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each political group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e2989	State Council Asheim announced in October 2020 that the government would reduce a sample to assess changes in our recording system, and a few weeks ago this sample was reduced. It's an exciting and important work. For the Right, it is important to say that, as a general rule, the higher education admission system should be based on characterisation. According to studies from, among others: NIFU, the Nordic Institute for Innovation, Research and Education, has legitimacy among people. Characters are perceived as fair, or at least as fair as it can be when you first distribute scarce resources, such as study places. In many studies, there is also a link between the characteristics of the students when applying for the study and the conduct of the study. We can see that, among other things. on teacher training — after introducing the character requirement 4 in T-matt, implementation has increased by 7 percentage points. But there are several drawbacks to today's recording system that have intensified in recent years. Although we have increased the number of places of study, we see from some studies where there is very high competition in places, that it is very difficult to get in if you don't have maximum age points. As a result, many of those who do not attend the study immediately from high school have to wait several years before they can enter the study. In addition, there are very many young people who spend years taking up a number of subjects from high school and trying to get full pay for all the extras. We've introduced the extra points a little bit and divided. There's probably been good intentions behind every single point, but overall, it's helped to push up the character set. That is, we have a system that encourages young people to use valuable years to take up a number of first-class subjects in high school and collect age scores before they study. It is not a good use of valuable academic years, and it also contributes to Norwegian students being much older when they are studying, than in countries with which we like to compare. Countries have different types of recording systems. In Denmark, for example, a two-quota model — a first allowance that gives rise to intakes based on grades from secondary education and a smaller allowance 2, which also assesses a number of other criteria, whether it is a take-up test, a letter of motivation, an interview, a test or relevant experience. It may be an exciting model to look at, but it needs to be carefully investigated what kind of model is adapted to Norwegian conditions. I really hope this is something that can become a cross-political consensus if you want to make changes, because we have to avoid situations that we see in countries where you change the recording system every four years. It's very unfortunate for our young people and others who want to study. It's important that we get a fair and predictable recording system that can have as much cross-political support as possible, so that more people can both start studying and study finished what they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3004	Already in 2018, a unanimous Education Committee asked the Government to review the admission rules in higher education. The working party has long called for such a review — an overall review. We believe that applicants and communities will be served with a better system than what we have today. Recently, the government set up a public body to review the legislation on admission to higher education. We are pleased that the work on the necessary review is therefore in progress, and we believe that the mandate is comprehensive for what needs to be taken into account. We believe that the intention of the draft representative is largely respected by the committee which has been set up and will therefore not vote in favour of the proposal. We see that it is necessary to make a thorough and comprehensive assessment of a system that is absolutely essential to work well both for applicants, for higher education and for society else. For us in the Workers' Party, equal rights to education are a fundamental value to society. The education system, including the recording code, shall ensure equal opportunities. We want a recording system that helps to get the most out of school and complete it, so that no unnecessary systemic obstacles will deprive applicants of opportunities where anything else would have been realized equally. The admission system must ensure that education and training applicants realise their potential, while at the same time attracting students who can complete and society acquire the necessary skills. The term of office shall cover, inter alia: new legislation will help to meet the skills needs of the labour market. From the point of view of society and employment, the parties should clearly be represented in this sample. So the Labour Party believes that there is an obvious weakness that the government has not ensured that the sample has party representation. The recording system should also address the needs of the labour market and the parties should have been of course actors involved in a review and further development of the system. The committee shall assess and propose admission rules that contribute to the needs of the labour force, and we want a higher education policy that takes account of employment policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3019	The Progress Party simply refers to the examination of Document 8:196 S for 2017-2018, where a unanimous committee in the vote made a proposal in which ‘The Government asks the Government to review today’s legislation on the ranking of applicants for higher education, including education that does not make any points today’, and we asked for that matter to be brought back to the Stortinget. Now this review has started. For this reason, the Progress Party wishes to await this review before, if necessary, launching a new investigation, which the proposers here want. So we don't agree. The recording regulation was largely adopted in 2007. It's starting to be a few years ago, so the Progress Party agrees that this code needs a proper review, and possibly a little cleanup. You can easily get a little bit lost in everything you can get points for, and the exceptions that exist. So you get a cleanup and review, we think we're in place. At the same time, I must honestly admit that the Progress Party may be contributing, since we decided at the national meeting last weekend that we want to complete and accept a letter to give two additional points. But it's based on what's in the legislation today. That is why we are now very pleased that this sample will do this job, and that a new investigation will be delivered to us no later than 1 December 2022. We think we have to wait for it, and we're not going to vote for SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3030	This is an important matter. The majority of the population have already wanted an investigation, so we're looking forward to it. Enrolment in higher education takes many and is a prerequisite for just getting into higher education and perhaps getting into the education you want, and for the education being brought up to the students they need. The centre party shares much of the concerns of the proposers in the case. Several of the problems of higher education have also been discussed earlier today, and we look forward to the investigation that the government is conducting, and that both the representatives Sandberg and Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde have taken up in their previous posts here. I want to comment on some of the points that have been raised. I think extra points are one of the tools that allow institutions to recruit more widely. Recruiting widely is also important in order to fulfil the societal mission. So I share the concern that many people use many unnecessary years, time, energy and capacity to resume their careers. Then perhaps the Center Party thinks that practical experience could count more, but I expect that we can discuss more when the matter comes back. I also want to use the opportunity to mention some concrete recording criteria to which the Center Party is critical. We want, for example: removing the requirement that all teacher students have to have 4 in mathematics when they are admitted to teacher training. We don't think it's given that it gives better teachers at the other end, that it gives better implementation, or that it gives better motivation for admission to the study, precisely because it's not certain that it's a math teacher you have to be once. Rather, we believe that consumption should be based on average. As a previous speaker has mentioned, on vocational teachers – we also believe that professional letters should be the basis for practical education for professional subjects, i.e. PPUY. I believe that master's requirements for all kinds of subjects in the PPU are not necessarily right to ensure well-qualified professionals around the students. Within e.g. Green education should be focused on increasing the number of professionals with PPUs rather than demanding more master degrees and increased pecuniary competence in all disciplines. For people and dissemination, which PPU is the doctrine of, it is also crucial to be a good teacher and to contribute to learning and a meaningful everyday life for students.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3049	We in SV believe that we need a new higher education recording system. The integrity of the recording system has to be assessed in order to promote quality, including, for example, the four-dimensional requirement in mathematics in order to address teacher training, additional points, age points, gender points, language scores, real-time professional scores, exceptional rules, questions of possible increased freedom for institutions to adapt criteria for admission, use of work samples, weighting of relevant characters in addition to characteristics and any other changes to the recording system. The aim of this work must be to promote quality and competence, both creation and education, and to ensure that students are best placed to learn what they can do when they are admitted. An investigation also needs to assess alternative admission options in use in other countries, and the options that institutions themselves want to apply, such as the test project at the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Oslo with an aptitude test, uniTEST. The committee must include representatives from the sector itself, the trade unions, students and students. We believe that the government changed the assumption of the recording system when they introduced the fourth requirement in mathematics in order to get into the teacher's education. This requirement has been met with considerable resistance in the sector, and if such individual requirements are appropriate for access to education needs to be included in the investigation. SV will refer to the consultation note from the Nurses’ Association, which had several good concrete proposals for what the investigation should contain. In particular, we took note of the proposal that additional points should be considered for locality in admission to decentralised nurse training. SV is clear: we need to provide study facilities to help ensure the necessary and vital competence in the districts. This applies to both small and large municipalities in rural districts. Decentralised study services help to ensure that people from the districts who, for various reasons, do not have the opportunity to stay at home for shorter and longer periods of time ensure the necessary and vital competence for business and important social functions. I am therefore addressing the proposal that SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3062	The representative of Mona Fagerås has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3067	We need a good, understandable and fair higher education recording system. The Christian People's Party supports the need to assess a new recording system, but in this case it is important for all parties that time is spent on acquiring knowledge in order to take the right steps. Last autumn this government announced that a sample should be set up to carry out an overall review and assessment of the legislation on admission to higher education. The Committee shall make its recommendations to the Ministry of Knowledge on how to establish an intelligible and flexible recording code that ensures both the legal certainty of applicants and is adapted to future higher education and technological development. I find that both the timing and the mandate take account of the views expressed in the previous vote in relation to Document 8:196 S for 2017-2018, in which a unanimous committee proposed a review of today’s legislation on the admission of applicants to higher education, including education that does not give additional points today. The work of the Committee, as briefed by the State Council of Asheim to the Committee, shall result in a NOU, to be supplied to the Ministry of Knowledge by 1 December 2022 at the latest. Education choices may be one of the most important choices we make in life. Therefore, it is important that we have a regulatory framework for admission to higher education that is both comprehensive, fair and easy to understand and relate to. Today, factors such as age, military service, community service, higher education, post-secondary education, sex, real-time vocational qualifications and language scores count when applying for admission to higher education. The Christian People's Party believes that in the work to be done, the benefits of any changes must be balanced against the danger of weakening other positive features of the admission legislation as it is today. For example, it will. be important for the students and the places of study that the recording system remains effective and transparent and is perceived as fair and relevant. For example, in the view of the Christian People's Party, it should be such that education with much equal content should count equally for admission to higher education. Today, for example: additional credits for one year at a national college, but it does not do so for one year at a Bible school, although they contain many of the same general subjects. The Christian People's Party supports the intention of the proposers, but believes it has been well preserved through the sample that has now been put down and started its work, and the mandate given to this sample. We also believe that such an important scheme for students, places of study and work should not be a matter of rapid treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3086	The foreign representative proposal is a good one. In fact, the government already announced in the autumn that we would put down such a sample. The committee was appointed by the Council of State on 23 April. Of all the areas for which I am responsible, admission to higher education is among those for which there is the most attention. The choice of education is one of the most important choices we make as individuals, and for society it is essential that we be able to recruit enough qualified and motivated students for example. the teacher and nurse study. Recording legislation affects a very large number of people. It is important that we have a law that is intelligible and flexible, which ensures the legal certainty of applicants and which can be adapted to future higher education and technological developments. Today’s recording regulation was mainly laid down in 2007. Since then, several changes have been made to adapt different needs. We have seen over time that developments have gone beyond the regulatory framework, so that today the legislation can appear to be complicated and fragmented. The representatives Wilkinson, Hövstegård and Fagerås mention several areas of the legislation it is worth looking at, such as: the age-point scheme. Like the representatives from SV, the government believes it is high time that we had a comprehensive review of the admission code. As stated, the Recording Committee was appointed by the Council of State on 23 April and their mandate is to carry out an overall review and evaluation of the legislation on admission to higher education. The Committee shall make its recommendations on how the Ministry of Knowledge can design a legislative framework. which is easy to understand for the applicants and which is considered to be fair helping students in higher education and others to make good and informed choices and to get their education started quickly contributing to the optimum use of resources in the population; contributing to an understanding of the competition and distribution of the places of study; contributing to meeting the skills needs of the labour market and not hindering a diverse and gender-balanced working life which is efficient and digitalisable The Committee shall make its recommendations on a feasible timetable with deadlines for the coordinated admission. The selection shall be based on an assessment of the functioning of the current recording system and its effects. I also want the sample to look at the recording systems at both lower and higher levels, including decentralised education. Furthermore, the sample should look at both central and local admissions at the UH institutions and admissions of international students. In the mandate, we have stressed that the sample should have dialogue with key actors in the process and that they should ensure that they are heard by relevant organisations and professional communities. We have also stressed that the sample should assess the Norwegian admission rules from an international perspective and discuss what experience, thinking and solutions we can learn from from other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3125	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3130	Nina Sandberg [[A]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3135	I thank you for that question, because it is clear that there is an assessment that is, of course, done on a case-by-case basis. But it is not a simple assessment either. What we chose to do in the end was to set up a sample consisting of representatives of the students and the students, the sector, both the colleges and the UH institutions. We also have the county councils and the people who are going to hire the students. But we have not made a party-based selection, simply because we want to have a selection that is professionally heavy and represents the sector in question, and then – and it is clear in the mandate – they will have a clear, open process and also, of course, get input from the parties. That's the background because we've chosen to put it together like we've done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3140	I will be so honest to admit that when I delivered this proposal for a representative, I was not aware of the government-reduced sample, so I am a little disappointed about that. Nevertheless, I am pleased that we got this little discussion today. It is an important topic that has been discussed by many and, in particular, I think that the proposal of the Nurses' Association was interesting, namely that additional points should be considered for locality in admission to decentralised nurse training. What does the Minister think of this proposal? Does he think it is sustainable, and is this something that the Minister will consider when he says his opinion on the final report of the sample?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3145	Let me start by saying that I don't think there's any reason to be sorry about having promoted this proposal, because it's a very good proposal, and it's also been shown by several representatives that this is something the committee has thought about in the past. The fact that the Committee had just wanted this to happen meant that NIFU was given the task of reviewing it. It was sent to the hearing in the autumn of 2020. When we saw the review from NIFU and the answers we got, we saw that here there was just a need to get a NOU and that we were able not to start arguing about, or discussing, single supplement points, but the whole system as a whole. Then the representative asks me now to take a decision on very specific proposals. I personally believe, and as the Council of State, that this is an interesting proposal, absolutely. But I think we should now let this sample, led by very competent Marianne Aasen, get to get all the recordings, set them up against each other and think this through a little bit. I am also very excited about what work they will do when they look at experiences from other countries, which may have done so in other exciting ways, and have just provided further and further training, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3152	I mentioned in my post that the University of Oslo has a very exciting trial project at the Faculty of Medicine, namely the aptitude test, the uniTEST. We've all met at the doctor who might have been professionally very competent, but who wasn't as good at caring, for example, or maybe didn't have all the social skills you want a doctor to have. So the question is, what does the Minister think of such pilot projects as the medical faculty in Oslo has had?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3157	Test projects of this kind have been a long way since we became a government. That's also why we've been there for a lot of applications and requests from different institutions. For example, when NTNU wanted to have the character requirement four in mathematics in order to start the engineering study at NTNU – they said it was a prerequisite to pass, at least probably a prerequisite – our government allowed this kind of experiment. Here's another example, from the University of Oslo, where you have these kind of fitness tests. So I think it's very positive, and I think we too, precisely in the sample work that's to be done, can gain a lot of exciting experience from Norwegian institutions, which have a lot of knowledge and competence. I was asked instead here about the composition of the sample. The important thing for me has been that even those who take in students, create the systems and maybe try out different things, are well represented in such a sample. I understand that the representative wants me to now try to pre-conclusion the NOU, one and a half or two years before it comes; I won't.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3164	Now we're going in for a landing right now, but I couldn't dive. The only thing you might be able to ask is why it's taken so long to get this work going. We also know that institutions would like to make more demands already today on admission and perhaps carry out more work on admission — interviews and simply other ways of getting involved in higher education — but they would like to point out that resources are limited, that it is simply demanding, and that there is a capacity to cope with a large number of applicants. Will the Council of State meet the challenges of resources and basic funding in order to meet the very objective of wider student admission assessments?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3169	First of all, I do not agree that it has necessarily taken such a terrible long time, all the time it was set aside for the NIFU, got a report, sent it to the hearing, so the results, and now have put down a sample to create a NOU. I agree that it takes time, but I think it's a good idea that it takes some time too, precisely because it concerns so many people. Then it's quite right, as the representative says, that on the one hand, you could imagine that everyone only had completely free recording systems – that is, everyone could try and test every student who wanted to get in. That would be very demanding given that we have almost 300,000 students, and that's why we have this coordinated recording. But when that's said, it's clear that I'm very positive to attempts of different types. That's why I'm also very proud to be the State Council for Higher Education in a government that has increased the budgets for higher education by 13 billion. kr since we came to power. It's a real growth, by price growth, of over 16 pst. That means that there are both more students admitted, and we have more resources. And we're also looking at the results.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3176	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3195	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3202	The proposition contains essentially two changes to the promise. The one is about changes in the Foreign Affairs Act and the extension of the temporary law on restrictions on the entry of people's concerns. The second is about anchoring restrictions on the entry of foreigners for the consideration of the people's health in the law. This has in the past been anchored in regulations. There are two minority proposals from the Committee, one from the Working Party and one from SV alone. I expect them to do something for their own suggestions. There is a joint committee behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3211	There have been many difficult situations related to these restrictions on entry — very many families and individuals who have been put into very difficult situations. We get a lot of calls; I expect that the government and everyone else will get it. Among other things, we have been busy ensuring that families and girlfriends, very close people, can get together as soon as possible. In addition, we have mentioned this with the fact that some people who have a job and who live, but who are not registered in Norway, have been refused entry again after they have left the country. It concerns one of the proposals. But there I have today received a written reply from the Minister of Justice, where the Minister of Justice confirms that they will do what this proposal includes. If the Council of State takes it up in its article or I take it in the line change and can confirm that that is what is being followed up, there is no need to vote on that proposal. The letter from the government says that in that case it will be introduced from 21 May, and that is immediately. That's good. It is a little strange then to stand alone about the proposal in the vote, when the government clearly believes the same thing. The second proposal is that the waiting time in the UDI and in the police are now quite unacceptable, both for applicants for family reunification and for applicants for passports. It is okay that it is corona, and that it is difficult, but it must be possible to reduce these waiting times, because it is simply not acceptable that there should be twelve months waiting time, for example. only to attend an interview in family reunification cases or 12 months of proceedings on citizenship — in addition to a long waiting period to be allowed to submit the application. That's what we're busy getting down. That is why I am promoting that proposal, which is a joint proposal between the SV and the Workers' Party. So just a brief comment on this with remote meetings in the UDI relating to asylum matters and other matters there. It is important not to use that instrument more than is strictly necessary. It must be possible to carry out part of these meetings with the necessary protection against infection and to allow persons to meet when necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3222	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3227	This is the second time I stand here with a proposal from the government to extend the temporary law on restrictions on entry. When I stood here last time, in October last year, the expiry date for the legislation on 1 June worked well ahead of time. I then said that it was not certain that restrictions on entry would be needed until this date, and stressed that the bill ensured that the restrictions on entry could be lifted as soon as they were no longer needed. The legislative proposal here today also ensures this, but unfortunately it does not seem unlikely that the need for entry restrictions will remain here at the expiry date of the law. I therefore think that the committee's decision to extend the working period to 1 December is reasonable. Nevertheless, I stress, as the government has also done in the bill, that it is not unlikely that it will become applicable with further extension after this date. The pandemic is not over until it's over in every country. It's going to take time. Although the level of infection within Norway is gradually controlled, we may still need to limit imports from other countries. The government understands the difficulties of these restrictions for individuals, businesses and cultural life. We constantly assess whether the infection situation indicates that decorations can be made. But it is important that relaxation occurs gradually and controlled. We have sacrificed a lot to get the infection under control in Norway, and it is important that we maintain this control. If I should like to comment briefly on some of Andersen's representatives, it is right that the waiting time at both the police and the UDI is too long. The goal is to shorten it. There are different reasons for this. The police have had many new tasks, and the UDI has an enormous pressure, especially to provide guidance. Keeping open public spaces where you're going to keep a distance, have infection protection, etc. has also been a challenge, combined with some people being quarantined, sick or that kind of thing. But this is working on all the time, not least digital solutions. With regard to the requirement of residence, it is correct that it has been adopted: it will be implemented on 21 June together with some other amendments. It's very understandable that girls want to meet each other. It's just that girlfriends aren't a very uniform concept – it can include a lot – and it was that when we opened up to girlfriends, this had to be trust-based. We saw that during both summer, autumn and Christmas we had increased travel activity and increased import infection. That's why we're now choosing to wait a little bit. There's still a lot, especially in this municipality, which is completely confined, and we have to prioritize it first.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3242	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3247	The case concerns those who live in Norway and for which the government now says they should change the legislation. In the reply I received from the Council of State today, it says that there is a need to provide other types of documentation, and we have also said something about that in this proposal – which is probably superfluous today. But what the government also says in the answer is that you have to be able to make sure that they return after a trip abroad, temporarily abroad. I have some problems understanding what that claim is based on, because it is just the return here they have been denied. What is the reason for making such a claim when that's exactly what they want to do, and as they have today been denied?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3252	We introduced stricter rules, we introduced demands that people be registered, simply because it was manageable for everyone, both those travelling and those controlling travellers. We have now seen a rather sharp increase in passport checks, for each individual traveler must be registered and provide documentation. We now see that it has affected a part that also lives here, but that is not popular. Then we have to separate them from commuters, work immigrants and others. Then we have to demand a certain connection. There must be evidence of the housing, of living here before we imposed these restrictions – you can't get a lease today – and you have to show why you've been out of the country. We have a distinction between necessary and unnecessary, it's about quarantine and where you can take it. The same rules will apply to those who can provide the housing situation, as we are now implementing the new legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3257	This matter is, of course, affected by EEA legislation, and there is good reason to believe that there is also a reason why the government has amended the legislation – that they see that this is contrary to it. If you want to do something for those who have been subjected to an incorrect restriction under EEA legislation – because you have had these restrictions on entry, where someone may have lost the opportunity to get to work, and where you may have to pay for a rental in a place you no longer have to travel to, etc.? There may be quite a number of personal losses and other losses associated with such a refusal. Will the government take any action against those who may have obtained an unfair or incorrect decision attached to these rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3262	No, it's not planned. The new rules will apply to those arriving from 21 May. It is absolutely right that someone might have been affected by the rules that applied then. That's this pandemic. It hits absolutely everyone. It affects jobs, cultural life, volunteering, young people, the elderly and the sick. It affects everyone differently, and we cannot operate with individual schemes for individual groups. When we introduced this grip, we felt that it was proportionate, that it was necessary, and that was what we could handle. So now we see that we've got some examples that we also had people who lived without being registered to the public. It has been necessary to spend time on what documentation requirements we will then have, because we cannot have the trust-based system that we had earlier in the autumn and winter, with the import infection we received. It's taken time to get this in place, but when it comes to it, everyone will be able to deal with the new rules in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3268	I get the reason that there's a lot going on in a pandemic. That's absolutely right, but there's some formal aspects of it. If you break the EEA rules, it will in other cases, for example: provide for repayment of funds — if it is wrong — or for claims to be made against those who are in breach of the rules. Has the government made such assessments? One more question on the same occasion: the Council of State was involved in its article, this with entry for girlfriends, etc.: Is it not documented that it is especially the group that has contributed to the spread of infection? If that's the case, I would like to know – that in that case the reason is – because then there will be someone who is very hard hit by a behavior for which they may not have had any responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3275	When it comes to assessing whether someone may have requirements that they will be entitled to have covered, each person will be able to assess them. Everyone can bring an action against the State, and then the court will have to decide whether that claim is legitimate or not. We believed that the residence requirement we introduced was within EU law, and then we have gone through more carefully and looked at how we can also have a system when you are not a public person. But this isn't quite easy. The whole point of the rules is that they should be as fair and as fair as possible, and that should be manageable. It actually answers the other question as well, about girlfriends. I can say that I have a girlfriend, that's what everyone can say. What we saw during the summer, the autumn and the Christmas season was increased travel activity in general. We can't say that girls traveled any more, but we can say that the sum of travelers became too large. The sum of imports was too large. Then we have tried to frame this into close family, into partners, into marriage, into things that can be easily documented. There has been the purpose behind this. Everyone should travel much less, preferably not at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3282	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3300	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3307	We're going to treat Prop as a reference. 143 L for 2020-2021 on intercommunal companies, electronic signing. Since the beginning of the pandemic, temporary derogations have been granted from the Municipal and IKS laws to carry out remote meetings and go from physical to electronic signature. The derogations were granted because various infectious diseases measures made it difficult to organise physical meetings and to sign protocols physically. Technological developments and experience gained from the temporary derogations show that this is a permanent mechanism. It is an overall committee which supports the proposal of the Proposition that the IKS Act be amended in order to allow permanent access to the use of electronic signing to sign meeting minutes and that the representation, board and winding-up board should be able to hold remote meetings if they so wish. In addition, the proposal to continue Section 1 of the Temporary Act of 6 November 2020 No. 126 on exemptions from the Municipal Law and the IKS Act. The paragraph suggests that elected bodies in the municipalities can also conduct remote meetings in cases where the meeting is to be closed under the municipal law. The extended access for closed long-distance meetings in municipalities and counties shall apply temporarily until 1 December 2021, which is also supported by the Committee. The Committee has noted that the consultation on the legislative proposal points out that the issue of the rules of the municipal law on the public meeting should also concern the ICSs and that the Ministry has undertaken work to assess changes to the IKS law other than those proposed in this proposal. A Joint Committee meets this challenge and believes that new forms of work in the public sector require a focus on how to ensure transparency and participation. I also point out that the Central Party, SV and the Workers' Party in the comments point out that on a principle basis it is unfortunate that permanent changes are proposed in propositions dealing with temporary changes to remedy the consequences of covid-19. With this background, I recommend the Committee's position, which is also unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3324	This is initially a proposition on the extension of temporary changes to the law on intercommunal companies relating to the pandemic, one of many covid-19 propositions dealing with the extension of temporary laws. The centre party supports the proposition, also the part dealing with a permanent change, but we are quite critical that in a so-called covid proposition, permanent changes are proposed. We will stress, as the representative Olemic Thommessen had in mind, that on a principle basis, we believe it is very unfortunate that permanent changes are proposed in a proposition dealing with temporary changes to remedy the consequences of covid-19. We want such permanent changes to be addressed in future in their own propositions that are separate from proposed temporary changes justified by remedying the consequences of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3329	The representative Thommessen has explained well the content of the proposition, so I don't need to go into it in detail, but I'm glad that the committee has joined the changes we're proposing. To the representative, Mr. Grenis, it is not like the Central Party has interpreted it, that we have promoted permanent changes to a proposal for the extension of a temporary law, but we have put forward a proposal for the extension of temporary law in a proposal for permanent amendments. I hope it resolves the matter, and with that I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3336	Several have not asked for the floor on case No.10.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3353	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3370	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3377	The case concerns a Document 8 proposal from the Progress Party, which proposes the following: ‘The government is asking the government to present legislative proposals that provide a clear legal framework for municipalities to intervene in order to stop activities and leisure activities aimed at children and young people who are considered to have a clear anti-integration effect.’ So far – as the rapporteur-in-Office. Religious and life-seeking communities are an important meeting place for several generations in many communities. In Norway, we have freedom of belief, and we have a generous grant scheme. Religious communities play an important role in the development of good integration arenas and the values on which we build the community. This is why the Workers' Party has previously proposed a number of proposals to strengthen the role of the faith and life-view societies in the integration work. We have proposed a binding social contract as a prerequisite for receiving State aid, a social contract that deals with mutual work to strengthen integration. We've also suggested that it should be at least 40 pst. Women in government, because one of the most important values on which Norwegian society is based, is equality. These are proposals which, unfortunately, the right-hand side has voted down. We have also asked the government to make oversight and transparency of the arrangements in Quran schools and other religious schools part of the conditions for obtaining state aid. Important factors are the use of Norwegian language and the absence of extreme attitudes and gender segregation. The government has still not delivered on the Stortingen decision of March 2020 on legislative changes aimed at prohibiting long-stay fixed after-school accommodation. The proposers refer in their proposal for a representative to Islam Net's purchase of a property in Oslo. Both City Councillor Raymond Johansen and I have been very clear that this establishment is undesirable. Islam Net is registered as an association, not a religious community. This means that it is not subject to the same supervisory and reporting requirements as the other religious community. Thus, an organization based on Salafism, a literal interpretation of Islam with clear anti-democratic fundamentals, plans to operate a center of activity for children and young people without being subject to control mechanisms as they would if they were registered as a religious community. This gives cause for concern and shows that there is a need for rethinking. I also think it is worrying that it still seems unclear how this organisation has managed to raise 60 million. kr for the purchase of property in Norway. Further action is needed. That is why today we are promoting the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals for measures to identify the amount of foreign funding to religious organisations, regardless of whether the organisation receives State aid.’ We also propose: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals that provide municipalities with better means of preventing leisure activities for children and young people that can contribute to radicalisation or are contrary to children’s rights or the Equality and Discrimination Act, including: – a binding social contract for integration with the organisations of the religious and life views, – the ability to monitor and supervise recreational activities for children and young people involving religious instruction.’ I take up the proposal of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3412	The representative Masud Gharahkhani has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3417	Of course, the fact that some Muslim organisations and religious communities have carried out youth work in which activities that – inserted into a traditional Norwegian context – appear to be indoctrinate and alienating, aroused strong reactions at the time of the news. It's been quite a long time, but nevertheless; there are important perspectives that are being taken up. There is a broad consensus that this counteracts good integration and is very unfortunate both for young people and for Norwegian society in general. At the same time, we are living in a democratic country that holds the principles of freedom of organisation, assembly, freedom of religion and freedom of expression high, and it is in the fight against anti-democratic attitudes that we are challenged to remember the rules of democracy and that they must apply to all. If we've forgotten, we've lost too. At the same time, of course, we should not be naive either, but should meet anti-democratic activities with the instruments that are sound within the framework of our democracy. This is a very demanding balance. The size of the population has previously asked the government to come back to the Storting with a proposal for the necessary legislative changes aimed at prohibiting long-stay fixed post-school accommodation offers to prevent segregation, parallel societies, negative social control or radicalisation. This work is in progress, and I tick – without anyone saying anything about it – that this is a very demanding task. It should also be interesting to see what is actually possible to regulate, taking into account the judgement themes that will naturally arise. My conviction is that, at the end of the day, democratic values must be developed and protected by the people themselves through attitudes, participation and in public debate. Not everything can be left to the state. Democracy is, after all, our shared responsibility. Of course, I look forward to the introduction of targeted legislation in this area, but I believe that good integration work is equally important in general, and that pays off financially for our new citizens, what attitudes are conveyed through school works, good debate venues, not least in the immigrant communities themselves, clear boundaries by public authorities, for example linked to women's and children's rights or social control in general. All of these are examples of measures that in the long run will be the most suitable to combat the anti-democratic forces we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3428	When the news came to the conclusion that Islam Net had acquired premises in the Grorud Valley in Oslo, all parties were quick to criticise and warn against the establishment of an activity center under the direction of Islam Net. The Progress Party then promoted a proposal that should be constructive enough to have a majority in this Chamber. The proposal is based on the need for better legal protection of integration work, i.e. that municipalities need a tool to respond to activities and businesses that this whole room considers to be unlucky and undesirable. Then it's very strange that when we come to voting on this matter, it seems that none of the other parties that were out loud about not wanting this, will support our proposal. Then it was obviously much more important to talk in a way that you thought people would like, than to act. We can look around how things work if you don't succeed in integration. Other European countries have failed much more than Norway and now have major problems. Our proposal is so intrusive that it can now address the problems without jeopardising other values and freedoms. First amanunensis Eivor Andersen Oftestad at the Inland College was also out to comment on our proposal, and felt that this was a constructive, correct, balanced and good proposal, and I find it even more strange that the other parties do not support it. There are a number of other proposals in the matter that are well and good, but it will not take account of this matter. You can't use any of the suggestions advanced in this matter, except for the Progress Party, to stop Islam Net's plans for an activity center in the Grorud Valley, which no one in this room wants. However, the Progress Party will support other proposals in a subsidiary way, i.e.: proposal No 1, from the SV and the Workers' Party, and proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. But proposal No. 4, from the Central Party, is really in our proposal – one must consider such a bill, and proposal No. 5, from SV, is actually taken care of in the Workers' Party's proposal. I would like to raise the proposal of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, with this explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3441	The representative Jon Engen-Helgheim has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3446	Community policies towards different religious and life views must be designed against important common values such as democracy, the rule of law, human rights, non-discrimination, equality and freedom of faith. I share the concern of the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman about the consequences for children and young people participating in gender-based youth services in the direction of religious associations after school. The proposers refer to Islam Net's acquisition of a property in Oslo, with plans to develop it into an activity center for children and young people. Islam Net is registered as a association and not as a religious community and is thus not subject to the new religion law and accompanying reporting requirements. The activity centre is registered as a foundation but must also have been promoted as a mosque and a service centre. The centre party is concerned that an organisation based on Salafism, a literal interpretation of Islam with clear anti-democratic basic values, plans to operate such an activity centre for children and young people without being subject to supervision and reporting requirements. It is pointed out that even though Islam Net itself takes a distance from terror, experiences from the rest of the world show that Salafist environments can still pose a threat by being able to act as an gateway to further radicalisation. I also think it's worrying that, as of today, there doesn't seem to be any clarity in how Islam Net has managed to raise 60 million. kr for the purchase of this property. It is unclear whether foreign actors have contributed to this funding. It is important to identify the extent of external financial support to religious organisations, regardless of whether or not the organisation receives State aid. The centre party will therefore support proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and SV. The Central Party supports the intention to provide legal support to municipalities in order to prevent anti-integration activity. At the same time, there is a need to stress that this must be done in a way that does not weaken the freedom to exercise religion. In the fight against anti-democratic forces, we must be careful not to resort ourselves to anti-democratic instruments that violate freedom of belief and association. However, it is vital that the big community does not show naivety to forces that could threaten our fundamental social values and that we ensure a secure framework for the common arenas in which our children and young people are to participate. The centre party believes that such a legal body as the proposers demand needs to be examined more thoroughly before we can vote in favour of such a proposal. An investigation into such a legal base also needs to assess whether other public authorities, in addition to the municipality, should be able to take action to prevent integration barriers. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3463	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3468	SV does not want leisure activities to be developed under the direction of Islam Net, and we are critical of many religious activities that make it difficult for young people to break out. We know that, because there's a lot of people telling us about it, and it's not just in Muslim contexts this is a reality. Therefore, there is a need for a proper, wide-ranging review of this, so that we have possible rules to govern, both at state and municipal level, both in order to set limits for such activities and, of course, also look at what should be State aid or, where appropriate, municipal support for such offers. Such offers must, of course, have very clear demands that there should be no form of segregation or threats to those who want to think differently or do otherwise. It is also necessary to look at how the financing of parts of these offers actually takes place. This has been proposed by the SV before, and we have been waiting for the government to come up with proposals on how to regulate it. So now we are promoting this proposal again, that we need to identify how money support for religious organisations comes from abroad. It is very important when talking about leisure activities for young people in vulnerable urban areas and communities that we ensure that municipalities and the voluntary sector have opportunities and frameworks for good leisure activities, and that there are no offers that become too expensive or so special that they push out young people. Because what we know is that young people who don't feel like they belong anywhere have easy to get caught up in by different more extreme groups, whether they're religious communities or other groups. So SV is promoting a proposal here asking for proposals to provide municipalities with better tools to prevent leisure activities for children and young people that can contribute to radicalisation or be contrary to children’s rights and the Discrimination Act, and the ability to oversee and monitor such leisure activities for children. The reason why we're promoting this and not going into the Workers' Party's proposal is that they have a point in what's about a binding social contract, which we think is wrong, which is getting too tight. That is why we believe that our proposal is better. I am therefore addressing the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3481	The representative Karin Andersen then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3487	In Norway, we have a long tradition of defending freedom of belief, even when we disagree with how different organisations or religious communities choose to organise themselves. We have a proud tradition of diversity of opinion and that the freedom to exercise our faith prevails over what we politicians at all times feel is right and wrong. In this case, we see a number of examples of freedom of belief and the right to organise is under political pressure. We see it with the attempts of the Progress Party to politicalize a clear attack on a single religious community, and we see it in the Workers' Party, which shows its ever-increasing need for more control and governance of the religious community. These two are staggeringly close to each other in both immigration policy and in the policy of belief and life. We already have examples of some municipalities starting to use public support as a means of pressurisation against, among other things. Christian organizations they disagree with. It is now proposed to provide a basis for municipalities to intervene and stop religious communities or other religious activities. I have to ask myself, where are we going? From this pulpit, I would like to make it clear that it is not the Christian People's Party's policy to restrict the freedom of a religion or the right of believers to organize themselves. That is why we stand with other believers in a democratic society with freedom of expression and full freedom of religion. We want trust and dialogue over control and control. We want a open-minded society with space for everyone. I'm not here to defend crime. Laws shall not be broken, nor in religious communities. If the law is broken, we should be able to assume that Norwegian legislation must be repealed and that equality of law must be maintained as an important legal principle. But I don't agree that we, as big-time politicians, are starting to ban what we don't like. We have to let religious communities do what they want within a legal framework. Religious freedom gives us parents the freedom to raise our children as we wish, and in line with our own faith. The majority, therefore, cannot limit the activities of a religious community because they have wrong faith, or because parents choose to let their children be influenced and behaved in harmony with their faith. As long as there has been no illegal activity, there is no restriction on religious freedom. It's discriminatory. We actually have to tolerate this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3498	There's no doubt that here we have a case that travels a number of principal dilemmas. I think there is a broad consensus among all those involved in the debate that we do not want leisure activities under the direction of Islam Net. At the same time, it is difficult to see how, in a society of freedom of faith and freedom of organisation, we are going to stop this kind of activity. As Minister of Knowledge and Integration, I am concerned about breaking down barriers to children and young people's participation both in school and in leisure activities. These are activities that are important for their well-being, integration, language development and social cohesion. Integration takes place where people meet in both small and large communities, in formal and informal arenas, in kindergarten and school, in living and living environments, in cultural life and through involvement in voluntary organisations and other parts of civil society. Measures aimed at immigrants and their children under the auspices of non-governmental organisations are an important complement to the efforts of authorities to promote integration. This representative proposal calls for a clear legal framework for municipalities to intervene in order to stop activities and leisure activities aimed at children and young people who are considered to have a clear anti-integration effect. The proposal has, as several have mentioned, its background in Islam Net's purchase of a property in Oslo with plans to run an activity center for children and young people. I share the Committee's concerns related to Islam Net and the organisation's acquisition and establishment of an activity centre in Groruddalen. The government perceives that Islam Net is a Salafist youth organization, and salafism is associated with anti-democratic values and a scepticism against several of the secular rights on which our society is based. It is unfortunate that Islam Net, with its organisation, networks and clear attention to young people, contributes to the development of alternative offers on the outside of established welfare and leisure systems, which can contribute to segregation and ultimately radicalisation. Islam Net is registered as a association and not a religious community and is thus not subject to the new religion law and accompanying reporting requirements. In my view, the municipal law is not suitable for placing any such obligation as is proposed. The law facilitates the organisation and exercise of public authority by municipalities. Concrete obligations and tasks of the municipality in different sectoral areas are not regulated by the municipal law, but by each sectoral law. In addition, any legal basis would have to be assessed against the provisions of the Constitution and of the Conventions on Human Rights and would require a major investigation. In the government’s efforts against radicalisation and extremism, new measures have been developed in line with new knowledge and new threat assessments. In June 2020, the government launched a revised version of the Action Plan against radicalisation and violent extremism with new measures. The government has seen that organisations can act as a recruitment centre for radicalisation, and the government will explore various measures that can help prevent or limit organisations and activities that can act as a recruitment centre for radicalisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3517	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3522	Norway is about a community in which we stand up for each other with freedom of faith and generous state subsidies, but also demands each other. It is about Norwegian values such as equality, freedom and democracy. I expect the Minister for Integration to agree that religious organisations are an important meeting place in very many communities. The Minister of Integration can then explain why the right-wing government is opposed to demanding a social contract to contribute to common integration work in many communities, and why the government is opposed to demanding that equality also apply to religious communities, by requiring at least 40 pst. women in the boards?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3529	The majority has recently adopted a new religious law, which entered into force on 1 January 2021. It provides the basis for refusing grants to religious communities and also the right to be registered if they exercise violence or coercion or violate the rights of children. In line with the Grand Duchy's request decision, the government has also made it clear in the regulation that the religious and life-view communities are to report on special offers for children and young people, inter alia. on education and other faith training and activities. The State administrator may then, if they become aware of information that provides a basis for refusing grants, assess the need for further investigation and whether the information provides grounds for communicating the relationship with the police. I believe that with the law we have for religious and life-view societies today, we have a number of tools to prevent activity that we do not want, and I think we should let the new law work before we might consider introducing new measures aimed at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3538	We see that there are increasingly emerging situations that show that municipalities need more instruments to ensure that integration work is carried out in the religious organisations. The Labour Party proposed this with a social contract and a requirement of 40 pst. the share of women in government – the government voted against. We also see that there are new associations, like Islam Net, that choose to establish themselves. The proposal we are promoting today in the main hall is, of course, that the government should identify all the tools that municipalities can use to prevent the emergence of undesirable environments that can contribute to radicalisation among children and young people, and that, for example, it does. cash flows enter Norway, where you do not fully understand where the money comes from. Why is it that you cannot support this work? Because you see the need for these tools to be put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3545	As I said in my post, the government also sees the need to look at the law in this area and to see if there are further measures that can help prevent or limit organisations and activity that can act as a recruitment arena for radicalisation. It's a work the government wants to work with. When it comes to whether this is something to give the municipalities more tools or new measures, I have to say that I am a little uncertain about whether that is right. Under the new Law on Religious Society, municipalities no longer have tasks or roles related to the management of grants to the religious and life-view societies. So the question of whether these are tools that the municipalities are going to have, I have to say that I am a little uncertain about, but this is, as I said, something the government will investigate further, and then we will also come back to Stortinget with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3552	In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State refers to an earlier decision taken in Stortinget, in connection with Prop. 130 L for 2018-2019. The proposal takes the form of prohibiting long-stay fixed after-school offers to prevent segregation, parallel societies, negative social control or radicalisation. So it is limited to prohibit offers with overnight accommodation over a long period of time. In addition, the Council of State writes: ‘It is therefore necessary to assess whether other measures or rules are necessary after the completion of that work.’; Then I would like to ask the Council of State: is it such that one first intends to answer this and possibly get a bill adopted on it, and then you have to see if it works up against such offers as from Islam Net, and then you have to start a new job?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3562	I share the view of the representative that this proposal that we have on the table today is far wider than the proposal on which a request decision was taken. I think it's useful to see those investigations in context, but it's not like we need to wait for one to be finished before we start the other. We have not set a deadline for what I announced in my post, namely that we will investigate various measures that can help prevent or limit organisations that could be a recruitment venue for radicalisation. I believe that these processes can go well in parallel. It's not like one has to wait for the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3573	Thank you to the Council of State for that clarification. That is not what the letter of reply says. It says that this should be done after the other work has been completed. But then I expect you to start a parallel job. From the input to the Council of State, it may be a little bit unclear if the Council of State really believes it is important or possible to stop plans that Islam Net has for an activity center. The concern that was shared was clear and clear, but it seems that there is a certain amount of paralysis when it comes to what to do. Is it like this that the Council of State has really calmed down that you don't like development, but you have nothing to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3581	What I did in my post, was well to point out some of the dilemmas a matter travels. It is clear that it is fully possible to stop this activity. The question is whether we want such a society, and how far we are willing to go to either ban concrete organisations or ban the activities they do. I think that's a discussion you should take. We can adopt the laws we want to do so. The question is whether we believe it is laws that are in line with the values we often promise very high in this society – values such as freedom of organisation, freedom of expression and freedom of belief. Therefore, I also believe that this is a work that requires more thorough investigation. But since I signaled in my post that these are questions that the government wants to investigate, I have also opened up that this is something we want to look at. So I haven't rejected it. But I think we should be honest that it is quite demanding and difficult to make a law that, on the one hand, ensures freedom of expression and organisation, and, on the other hand, ensures that we avoid these kinds of organisations, which contribute to radicalisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3586	When it comes to the issue of Islam Net, this activity hasn't started yet. And that's good. But the activity that we know has taken place on some of these other so-called overnight leisure activities, it's been going on for a while. That's why I have to ask the Council of State, when we have now had two rounds on it, where the government has been required to come back with rules where we can see how we can prevent that kind of offer. Last, da Prop. 130 L was dealt with in Stortinget, wrote an overall committee: «The committee asks the government to bring the matter forward by the spring of 2021.» The government has always said that they will come back this spring. So then the question is, When will the matter come?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3591	The Ministry of Children and Family is responsible for following up the request decision referred to by the representative. These are also issues that raise a good deal of demanding demarcation issues in addition to human rights issues, including: on the right to privacy and freedom of belief and freedom of life. Before any legislative proposal can be promoted by the Stortinget, it must be sent to the hearing. Therefore, it will not be possible to come back to Stortinget with a bill in the spring of 2021, as the family and cultural committee asked for at that time. The government is concerned with a good follow-up to the request decision, and we will keep the Stortinget informed about further progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3600	Everyone is aware that there may be very many difficult balances in these matters. But another proposal from the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party – now I heard that the Center Party should also support it, I think the Progress Party also said they should support it – should it not be very difficult to determine the extent of foreign funding to religious organisations, regardless of whether the organisations receive State aid? That proposal in itself does not say that it should be banned, but it says that at least we have to know if it comes from money and where that money comes from. For that is quite a matter of whether it is all concerned, namely to prevent the building of organisations that can promote both segregation and extreme attitudes. So what's the reason why the government won't map foreign money support to religious organizations in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3605	In line with new religious law, every year, faith and life-viewing societies receiving grants shall submit accounts to the State Manager. And if the communities receive contributions from the rest of the world, it shall be disclosed in particular. This reporting could provide knowledge of the extent of funding from abroad to the religious and life views.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3610	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3617	Now I haven't been sitting on the Stortinget for so long, so I don't have all the history, but I think it's rare you have a debate in this room where there's such a broad consensus about an unwanted phenomenon, but also a similar broad consensus about not doing anything about it. There have been a lot of good posts here that make very clear the risk it is if you don't do anything. There are a lot of people who have described well how Islam Net operates, what they stand for, and how it challenges our democratic values. But still you don't want to do anything about it. Because if you wanted to do something about it, you would vote in favour of our proposal, which, of course, is to be thoroughly investigated and would take care of all, most of the concerns, perhaps apart from the Christian People's Party, which, in my interpretation, does not want to do anything about the challenge, nor is it concerned about what is happening. There were some claims that this is a proposal that would affect one religion. That's wrong. This has little to do with religion. This is a proposal designed to protect integration and enable municipalities to act if someone destroys the integration work. That law applies equally to everyone, no matter what you stand for, or what you believe in. It has little to do with religious law, as others have pointed out. I also think the minister was very clear and clear in his concern about what this could mean. Nevertheless, it points out that our democratic freedoms prevent us from doing so much about it. I very much agree that our democratic values of freedom, such as freedom of expression and freedom of religion, must be high, but it is a balance how far we should let things go before we begin to act. In France, very interventional measures have now been seen because too many years have not wanted to do anything at an early enough time. Then one has gone into and shut down religious societies; one has even gone to arrests that can be said to be very poorly justified, because one has waited and waited and waited and let things scour and go. There are organisations and groupings that are more than willing to use our democratic freedoms to promote anti-democratic attitudes. If we're naive and we don't do anything about it – something this hall doesn't want – that development won't stop. It is simply sad to see that there is such broad consensus about the threat that is waiting, and so broad agreement not to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3632	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3649	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3656	This representative proposal from SV, which we have to discuss today, is strange. The intention of the proposal for environmentally differentiated toll payment in Trondheim and between Trondheim and Stjørdal is great. The purpose I don't think the Storting will object in any way. Trondheim will probably introduce that zero-emission goods cars, compared to passenger cars, will continue to receive greater discounts – at least within the environmental package. But the process is hard to understand. Why do Trondheim and Trøndelag not apply for this instead of SV submitting a representative proposal for Stortinget? In addition, when we know that SV has the vice-president in Trondheim and is in position in the county council, it's even stranger. Did not SV know that this initiative would come from local authorities, be dealt with by the Ministry of Transport and the Government and presented to the Stortinget? The environmental package has been made aware of the need to apply, and the rapporteur sent an application two weeks after the draft representative was tabled. It is common for urban packages to have an impact on the introduction of environmentally differentiated rates, but more far-reaching toll points have not been granted access. I expect the government to come back with a proposition that will make the Storting prepared to make a clear decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3665	This is a special case, but it is also quite clarifying. If we have understood this matter correctly, it is not possible for the Environmental Package in Trondheim and E6 Trondheim – Stjørdal to introduce environmentally differentiated toll tariffs because it was not part of the toll bill when it was adopted in Stortinget in its time. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State writes that it is up to the municipalities and county councils concerned to take initiatives and decide on a flexible tariff system. The Road Administration's employees in the Environmental Package have previously said to the political level in Trondheim and Trøndelag that this cannot be done, so it is quite clear that there are some ambiguities in the communication of messages. Both professionally justified and locally anchored, there are different rules for the environmental package and for distance projects. In this case, the exemption of tolls from the commercial transport of zero emissions is a measure that will help to increase the share of road transport vehicles that are compatible with the climate. Now we also heard the rapporteur say that this is fully possible and that a request has been made by the rapporteur in Trondheim, dated 21 April. We therefore ask in our proposal, of which the Workers' Party is part, that the government submit proposals to the Stortinget on environmentally-differentiated toll tariffs for the Environmental Package in Trondheim and E6 Trondheim-Stjørdal. This means that proposal No. 1 in the case was taken up, and we hope that this can give us a lead in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3674	The representative Kjersti Leirtrø then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3679	The representative of the representatives of the big business representatives Lars Haltbrecken and Arne Nävra are asked to introduce environmentally-differentiated toll tariffs for the environmental package in Trondheim and E6 Trondheim – Stjørdal Højre. The right supports the intention of the proposal. Although it is a local issue, it is important that the introduction of such a system is broadly anchored both in the political environment and in the population. It has been shown that there may be different enthusiasm for this system locally. Toll financing must be based on local policy initiatives and decisions. Then it must be for the municipalities and county councils concerned, in cooperation with the department, to propose a flexible and good tariff system within the framework of the law. The Ministry refers to the fact that the formal basis is not available at this stage in the case in question. However, it should be noted that when the formal and technical basis is available, as well as the necessary local policy decisions, the Ministry will be able to submit a case to the Stortinget. I am not in doubt that there is broad support for this in Trondheim, but it will be too easy to send a letter from the rapporteur in the municipality to jump over a proper and thorough investigation and involvement, as the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left want. As decision-makers, the Stortinget must be presented both pro and contra in all cases. This applies not least to issues with a potential for significant local resistance. We cannot ignore the fact that precisely this kind of thing has led to major protests all over the country. The Council of State emphasises that municipalities should have a rich toolbox of measures they can use to reduce local pollution and greenhouse gas emissions. The municipalities already have this. The second paragraph of Section 27 of the Road Act opens up the possibility of using a flexible toll tariff system in urban areas, for example: by allowing tariffs to be set on a daily basis and the environmental characteristics of the vehicle. For distance projects, such a flexible tariff system is not open, but there will be a possibility for local authorities to set a tariff of between 0 and 50 pst. for zero-emission vehicles. In the proposal for a national transport plan, the government proposes that new and smaller urban areas should have urban growth agreements. The experience from the four largest urban areas is good. The environmental package in Trondheim has also worked well, and this is an experience one wants to build on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3694	This is an absolutely amazing thing. I'm a little excited if this is a new course for SV – that SV takes up tolls and wants to give toll exemptions, warms the heart to us FrPs. Even though the toll barge will only apply to a few and to a zero-emission vehicle, it is a wonderful feeling. But I have to say it is a little strange that SV only raises a single toll package and a single case and does not take the more comprehensive perspective. We in the Progress Party are very concerned to refer to our representative proposal, Document 8:275 S for 2020-2021, where we propose to pay off the toll in all toll projects throughout Norway, not only in the Environmental Package Trondheim and on the project E6 Trondheim–Stjørdal, but on all other projects. It will just solve the challenges that, among other things, SV here points. This will give you the advantage of more reasonable mobility for business, but also for most people in the Trondheim region, who depend on cars to get to work and leisure activities – including for zero-emission cars, as the representative Nävra here refers to in his proposal. I hope it will be an exciting vote when we come back with the proposal of the Advance Party to remove tolls. It will be exciting to see if we can get SV on the team in the fight against tolls, especially in the Trondheims area. With regard to the comment of the case rapporteur Gunnes that he expects the Stortinget to come back with a clear decision that might open up to such wishes as SV has in this case, it is not something we in the Progress Party are looking forward to. It'll worry us, and the consequence of that won't necessarily be that there will be more people getting toll exemptions. It could get worse that those who have to pay tolls have to pay even more, an even higher rate. We are responding to this in the Progress Party. If it is up to what the rapporteur says, that the government, like the opposition, is likely to support such a proposal, then we are strongly sceptical about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3705	The majority of the Committee, the Government Parties plus the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre are clear that toll financing is based on local policy initiatives and decisions. It will therefore be for the municipalities and municipalities concerned to take an initiative and decide on a flexible tariff system in Trondheim. It is a clear majority of the Committee that considers that the proposal presented in the draft representative is possible and notes that this requires the initiative to come from a local political team. It is, as we know, from the local team that no application has been prepared for the Ministry of Transport. The centre party refers to the draft representative and stresses that local initiatives have been taken in this matter – a letter sent from the rapporteur at Trondheim on 21 April 2021 to the ministry. It is important to continue to provide benefits to those parts of the economy that use zero-emission transport solutions in order to achieve the climate objectives of cutting emissions. It is quite natural that Trondheim should be given the possibility of an environmentally differentiated tariff system in line with Oslo and Bergen. The reason why it's not like that today must be a failure in the system. On this basis, the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV shall promote the following proposals: ‘As soon as the request from the rapporteur in Trondheim of 21 April 2021 has been examined, the Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget for the introduction of environmentally differentiated toll tariffs for the environmental package in Trondheim and E6 Trondheim–Stjørdal.’ The centre party records that the Progress Party will once again waive responsibility for Message. St. 33 for 2016-2017, National Transport Plan 2018-2029. There is reason to point out that the Government Party, at the time of the accession of the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance, provided for the toll-funded development of the projects Umweltpakketen Trondheim and the project E6 Trondheim–Stjørdal. These projects are therefore in line with the wishes and requirements of the Progress Party. The Central Party further refers to the letter of the Council of 27 April 2021 in response to the draft representative, Document 8:275 S for 2020-2021, on the deletion of toll debts, where it writes that there are significant obligations relating to toll projects adopted in the Stortinget, far beyond the infrastructure fund contribution of 100 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3721	It seems that all batches believe it is possible, and all batches, perhaps with the exception of the Advance Party, consider it desirable to have differentiated tariffs for zero-emissioned vans and for fossil cars. That's good. The second paragraph of Section 27 of the Road Act opens up the possibility of using such a flexible toll tariff system in urban areas, for example. by fixing tariffs according to the time of day and the emissions from the cars. That's good, too. The environment-differentiated tariff scheme applies to urban tolling schemes in general and is therefore reserved for these urban packages, as the Council of State also writes in its letter, but for stretch-by projects there is a possibility for local authorities to fix a tariff of between 0 and 50 pst. for zero-emission vehicles. It has been mentioned by several speakers. So there has been an enquiry from the municipality of Trondheim, where the rapporteur has asked in a letter of 21 April this year to look at the possibility of introducing such tariffs, because it has both Oslo and Bergen. When I read the letter from rapporteur Rita Ottervik, it actually says that it was an unintended consequence of the propositions that it somehow turned out to be the way it was. Then you can say that the proposers should know that an application should be submitted in advance. I'd like to take a sea critique on that, but I didn't know that. In fact, I thought the decisions that led to the letter that came later were okay, that is. that there is a local political commitment to this, with a clear decision in March, both in the municipality of Trondheim and in the county municipality, that they want a full exemption from tolls for zero-emission vehicles. This is just talking about some formal questions about order. The local decisions are there, the letter from the rapporteur, with the story of the decision locally. This is probably a question of enough desire for the Council of State, the Ministry and political leadership, and then it is an initiative, in the case of local decisions, that the letter is available. We'll hear what the council says. I can see nothing but that all that formal – more or less – should now be all right. It's said to be pro a contra. This is not a very large extension project or a new principle; these are known principles. It's just about getting it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3730	I want to start by saying that environmentally-differentiated tariffs in urban areas can contribute both to better air quality and to lower emissions, and I am positive about that. I am concerned that municipalities should have a rich toolbox to ensure that they can do what they can to reduce local air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions. That is why we have just opened up other places to this possibility – as I thought the good debate so far has also pointed out. So I'm concerned that toll policy is based on local, regional decisions, and it's an important principle that we stick to it. If it becomes apparent that it is desirable to apply environmentally-differentiated tariffs for the Trondheim Environment Package, it will be possible. I would like to take a positive view of such an initiative. The case must then begin with the fact that local authorities, in consultation with the State Road Administration, have a professional basis for such a matter. This will include, inter alia: the calculation of effects on traffic and revenue by setting up toll tariffs on the basis of the environmental class of the vehicle. The professional basis will need to be anchored by mandatory local policy decisions on the introduction of environmental-differentiated tariffs both at the municipalities and at the county level. Once the formal and professional basis and all local policy decisions are established, the Ministry will be able to submit a case to the Stortinget. It's that simple. I want to say that there is one city that has succeeded and done a good job associated with the city packages and the measures they have taken, it is Trondheim. I hope that this will be followed up and that the intention of this proposal will be adopted in this Chamber once this important preparatory work has also been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3741	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3747	I thought this matter was clarifying, but the comments from the Council of State made me a little uncertain. After all, decisions have been taken in county and city councils both in terms of the route from Trondheim to Stjørdal, and also in terms of the urban package. So my question is really whether the Council of State is now expecting a formal application to be made in addition to the letter from the rapporteur and the decisions taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3752	We're forced to distinguish between what's part of the urban package and what's the distance. In that way, we can have from 0 to 50 pst. on zero-emission vehicles, as it is on all sections of the route. On the city packages, we can have environmentally-differentiated tariffs. That is what we have in the whole country, and it will also apply to Trondheim's part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3757	Since it seems that I might be able to ask a few questions, I have to start a little bit in general. If there are restrictions on route-wise routes to set zero-emission requirements – so get toll exemptions, there are only possibilities up to half a discount, 50 pst. – will the Council of State then take the initiative to change it, so that it can actually get another tool that is even stronger to bring down emissions? There's a lot of cities where there's food to the city -- it's part of the rural area of the city, but often not part of the city itself, the city. Will he take the initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3764	In fact, for some parts of the distance, it would be random if they were part of the city package or not. It varies slightly from city area to city area. But I want to say that when it's for distance-wise parts, there's a rate of between 0 and 50 pst. This means that it can be completely free of charge for zero-towed vehicles on a distance, but it can be 50 pst at most. cost. So it's a pretty good environmental incentive that's based on some of those distances. We haven't had a round on whether it's right to change this, but I've been happy with the flexibility it's provided in the city packages, and I've actually experienced that a city like Trondheim has done this very well. I read that there's a desire to make a change here. I hope the decisions come into place, and we get to do it. I think it would be in line with the intention I have to bring down both environmental emissions and climate emissions in Trondheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3771	Then I will follow up the question from the previous questioner, I did not hear a clear answer from the Council of State. What, then, is missing with the enquiry from Trondheim Municipality so that the Council of State can make a proposition in this area? So now it is local policy decisions, and then there has been a request from the rapporteur to tell us about the local policy decisions. What, then, is missing for the Council of State to take an initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3776	It seems to me that the local decisions are actually in place. Then we also have to get an overview of what the cost of this is, what is the loss of income and any additional income that comes. Then we get it through an application, like we do in that kind of case. It takes place in cooperation with the counties, municipalities and the state road authorities. And the State Road Service gives it the basis of calculation, what is the effect of this. We do have measures in the urban environment package that I don't think any of us want to go out.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3781	Then I'll just take a little extra – if it's time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3786	Here you go.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3791	This is very clarifying. What the Council of State is asking for is a formal application that has been made, certainly also in consultation with the Road Administration of the State, in order to calculate the prices, the estimates of the budgets. Then it can be sent in, and if it is possible – as soon as possible, of course – the Council of State will deal with it and initially have a positive attitude to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3796	I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3801	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3807	I hear some representatives think it is a mistake that Trondheim has not had the opportunity to differentiate earlier, but it is not at all. Trondheim has not had the need. They have not applied for this because it has been free for all zero-emission vehicles in Trondheim, until now. A month ago, the city council adopted 20 pst. of the maximum price, i.e. of what ordinary cars pay. The county council adopted 50 pst, so they're not entirely in agreement. There are therefore rapporteurs from the Workers' Party who run both of these political arenas, and SV has a lot to do with them, and the Senter Party as well. But that's what's going on, that what they're looking for right now is, of course, to bring this in. Trondheim has been very far behind other cities in terms of the number of electric cars. That's about. 17 pst. of the cars that pass the bombing system in Trondheim today, which are electric cars. It's very low in relation to Bergen and Oslo. Ownership of an electric car is just 12 pst. who has in Trondheim. Then you want to introduce a differentiation, up to 20 pst. – so it has to be more expensive for electric cars now than it has been in the past. There are many who are concerned that it could ruin the further sale. So that's the way it goes, not towards an environmental advantage, that you might think of it as. But what SV asks about in its proposal for a representative is that you can differentiate between electric cars. The electric car, a passenger car, shall pay 20 pst. the maximum price, while the electric car is still free of charge. That's why we have to have a decision, and that's why we have to calculate both costs and benefits and not least what kind of influence this gets for the further traffic pattern in Trondheim. We must remember that Trondheim was the only city that did not actually have a decline in car traffic in 2019, and that is a danger signal. They have fallen well before that in the lifetime of the Environment Package, but we should be aware that Trondheim really needs to run in with more measures. It may also be necessary to increase the levels of bombing in general both against the Guards and also in the Environmental Package.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3816	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3833	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3840	This is a matter on which large parts of the committee agree, and it is also very finely written by an overall committee on the occasion of this matter. However, the Progress Party proposes that, in order to save costs and to keep the quality level up – that is, it said – an international certification system will not be followed, a kind of international tool to take account of a good number of environmental aspects of transport development. I think the matter boils a lot down to that. I have to be allowed to add, on behalf of SV, that there are no heavy, extra bureaucratic forms that come to the top, as I believe the Progress Party, the proposers here, later to believe that it will be. It is now the case that the costs of this CEEQUAL certification are incurred regardless of whether the projects carry out the follow-up and documentation of the requirements and instructions given in the laws and regulations. If you don't have a tool to deal with all the requirements that are, it actually becomes more bureaucracy, more work for those who are involved. So the entire committee says that it is important that large-scale development projects in Norway take account of the environment and impacts they may have. It is not certain at all that such considerations are taken into account in all aspects of transport. I have to say that I have probably been the greatest exponent here in the hall of criticism of the government and the majority of the population just because such considerations are not taken into account. It is important that climate issues, natural values, the risk of pollution, etc. followed up. The SV and the entire Committee believe that the certification system will strengthen this work. Of course, it is important that cost-effective road investment takes place, everyone agrees, but it is also essential to take into account valuable areas and climate. This is where the Progress Party is completely rid of the load. The strange thing is that the Progress Party not only turns its back on environmental concerns evenly into all the votes here in the Chamber, but they do not attach greater importance to the Industry Association, the Entrepreneur Association – Construction and Construction, EBA. They support your current system. EBA sees the system as functioning, and they say it provides predictability and contributes to profitable projects. The industry needs common tools in the green shift. EBA believes that CEEQUAL has a great advantage, and that it can give industry a common platform around what sustainability is.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3851	This Document 8 has the title ‘cost-effective road investment’, while at the same time requesting investment projects not to be certified in line with CEEQUAL, The Civil Engineering Quality Assessment & Awards Scheme, or similar. The working party agrees with the proposers that there is a need for more cost-effective road investment and that this as well as quality requirements should weigh heavily in the assessment of investment projects. But then the differences come out – there are other things than more for the money that have to count. The transport investments that we are going to make, and which we are planning through the national transport plan, must also facilitate local and regional value creation. We in the Workers' Party want to strengthen Norwegian, serious companies by making calls for tenders that give them equal competitive opportunities. Other factors that we believe need to be highly weighted are road safety, nature's self-value, reduced use of cultivated land and, above all, climate-friendly development. This system will be a useful tool for further work on a more sustainable road sector and will provide more cost-effective implementation in the long term. The Workers' Party supports the Entrepreneur's Association – Construction and Facilities, which believes CEEQUAL in major projects can give the industry a common perception and platform of what sustainability is. The fact that all relate to the same system will in turn contribute to better long-term investment and to a level playing field. That system is therefore good and predictable for our entrepreneurial industry. We are therefore part of the majority of the Committee, which rejects this proposal by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3862	As stated in the title, ‘cost-effective road investment’ – that is something we have worked well on with the Progress Party in the last almost eight years. It's done a lot to help us actually get more left for each of the heads we use in the road sector. For example, we have established New Roads, which have introduced new ways of working – early involvement, portfolio management, more predictability – that will enable us to reduce costs and improve the benefits of road projects. I'm very pleased with that, and then it's about building on it. With regard to the issue of environmental certification, I do not see it primarily as a cost-effective road construction measure or the opposite. It is probably more a measure to ensure that we reach our environmental objectives in terms of emissions and ensure that we can properly document the environmental impact of the investments we make in the civil engineering sector. In this sense, we're not prepared to make any special changes to this, simply because we see it as a useful tool to achieve those objectives. After all, the Road Administration has recommended the use of this certification system. I think we should respect it when the trades union believes that it is a good tool for them to work on the projects. Similarly, we see that EBA, the business community's organisation, is engaged in the same and also sees this as a good tool to achieve the very objectives of the environment. It makes me think that here it is really both the sponsor, the builder and the contractors in common who believe that this is a good tool both to achieve those objectives and in the long term may help us to get a cost impact from it. In this way, I think that there is good reason to continue this scheme, listen to the professionals, listen to the professional expertise related to this and ensure that we meet both our objectives of cost-effective road construction and our objectives of reducing the environmental impact and of documenting the environmental impact of important construction projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3871	It is quite correct, as the local representative says, that thanks to good cooperation between the Right and the Advance Party, we had a historic change of course in the transport building in Norway, both in the number of meters of road being built, and not least in costs and cost cuts. Had we been able to copy that success with New Roads in several areas of society, we had really streamlined this country and given people the most tax havens so monner. In addition to the creation of New Roads, with which we have good experience from the Right Cooperation, I have to say that for the Progress Party, respect for taxpayers' money is crucial – and that is what we are talking about here. We are talking about respect for taxpayers' money. By establishing New Roads, we have saved almost 30 billion. kr, and the social benefits have increased by approx. 60 B.C.E. kr. It really surprises us that the committee here, fully knowledgeable and voluntary, without paying attention to costs, writes: ‘The Committee considers that linking all civil engineering projects to this type of certification scheme has a high cost, but the Committee points out that it is necessary to achieve the environmental and climate objectives to which Norway has committed itself by means of international agreements.’ It's amazing. In the name of the climate hysteria, there is clearly no limit to the uncritical use of money among the majority in this room. The fact that SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre do not respect taxpayers' money does not surprise us. But that the Right with its two comrades in the Left and Christian People's Party also moves on that track, I have to say is surprising and disappointing, because we know that at least the Right is a party that is usually occupied with diet-benefits and taxpayers' money. Unfortunately, they are now evading the principle of climate and environment. It is also an important point that Norway already has a crazy number of laws, regulations, restrictions, guides and regulations for building roads, for large public road projects. Among other things, the fact that Mjøsbrua is going to be built in three, is a leadership that we, along with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, have got into today's NTP, that environmentally friendly materials are to be used to get less CO 2 images. When you talk about cultural memories and nature's self-esteem, as the representative of the Workers' Party said, there are clearly no limits. If it had lived 50 million in Norway, or 500 million people, I would have understood the concern of the Workers' Party and the majority of the population for nature's self-esteem and for taking care of every little bush and every little tree found in nature. After all, there are not so many people in Norway. We have more than enough of nature, and we don't have too many roads. We must also protect those who are going to build roads, and I will then take up the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3890	Then the representative Tor André Johnsen mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3895	It is amazing that Mjøsbrua should be built with a lot of wood. Norway relies on good infrastructure to maintain both residence and business throughout the country. The size and the state have a responsibility to ensure that taxpayers’ money is well managed, so that the community gets the most out of each krone used for transport investment. The State Road Service has chosen to use this system as a tool to achieve the NTP target of contributing to the achievement of Norway’s climate and environmental objectives. By implementing CEEQUAL certification from the planning phase, it is possible to achieve a more systematic approach to the environmental and sustainability challenges and to plan more cost-effective actions in subsequent phases of projects. It is important that large-scale development projects in Norway take into account the environment and the impact they may have. In particular, it is important to minimise or eliminate damage and contamination. This responsibility has been followed up by both the plant sector and contractors, and the certification system strengthens this work. Cost-effective road investments and quality requirements shall weigh heavily in the assessment of investment projects. There are also other important factors that need to be given high weight, such as road safety, natural values, climate objectives and the use of cultivated soil. CEEQUAL will be a useful tool in the further work of a more sustainable road sector, which can also contribute to a more cost-effective implementation. In the long term, this could mean a reduction in the cost of projects. The Entrepreneur Association – Construction and Construction, EBA, supports this requirement in major civil engineering projects. According to EBA, the system considers that it provides predictability and contributes to profitable projects. The industry needs common measuring tools to guide the green shift. EBA believes that CEEQUAL has a great advantage in providing industry with a common perception and platform around what sustainability is. The fact that everyone is related to the same system can contribute to long-term investment and that it is competitive on equal terms. That is why the Central Party is in favour of rejecting this proposal by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3912	This certification is an international environmental certification system for civil engineering projects requiring eco-friendliness and sustainability. First to the international: we are members of the EEA, and we have many projects for which there is international competition in terms of both road construction, bridge construction and different, and then we have to have equal legislation to that. The football matches have rules, too. It's like a player playing football in Norway, or if one is in Japan, or where one should be. It must also be within a plant industry that competes on equal terms. With regard to this sustainability situation – for which we are concerned – it is disappointing that the Progress Party is making it like this is wasted work. That's what we hear from the representative Johnsen, that we don't need this because we have so much nature next door. Yes, but it is that we cannot afford to destroy this nature if it is to be sustainable, and if we are to achieve the climate goals. For example, ants: it can't be built anywhere, because it captures a lot of CO 2. I think we need to introduce perhaps even more stringent legislation, but the important thing in this context is that we actually have a certification, so that everyone has something to do with when they're going to compete, in order to implement a project. We have the Paris Agreement, where we have committed ourselves to achieving the objectives, and I hope that there is still a large majority, and that there will be a large majority in the Grand Duchy, in order to achieve these objectives. It would look as if we were going to start four on the requirements of today's Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3924	I thought it was said very wisely by the plurality in this room in this matter. We are forced to do what we can to bring down the costs of the large projects. It's a natural job. And yes, I want to give credit to New Roads for what they have been happy about, but someone said that the only thing that has happened is New Roads. That's wrong. We had significant cost exceedances on some projects within the state road system. There we have seen a significant improvement. I think that New Roads have come, have been positive, not only for New Roads, but also for the State Roads. I compared it to the time when TV 2 came. It created a positive competition and also improved NRK. We've seen something of the same thing on the road side, and I hope we can get the same positive dynamics on the rail side, too, with two expanding environments. So to what has created inconsistency here, and that's whether we're going to have an environmental certification, an international certification. There I share the view of the great plural here and am pleased with it. This is what the industry wants, and this is what the organizations want. Statens vägvesen and Skanska have had two projects, 1.5 billion. kr and 3.5 br. kr. The cost they have of this certification is 0.03 pst. and 0,07 pst. It's 0.3 and 0.7 per million. So that's not the big cost. To the question of whether this is bad use of taxpayers' money: No, I want to say it's the opposite. Because we know that when we do that kind of work in advance, it can also be cheaper in the longer term. The most expensive thing we do is make mistakes in this area. It is the most expensive, and therefore I am pleased that there is broad agreement on this certification. It's also something the industry wants, and we're going to keep following up. We're serious and we're going to do what we can to bring down costs. We've been very happy about that. New roads have been important, but I also want to give credit to the work of the State Road Service in this area over the last few years. It has also been very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3942	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3947	One of the environmental considerations to be taken and well taken is cultural memories. Cultural memories are important, I'm very happy in the Ancient Memory Association myself. Cultural memory number one in road construction is such ‘cold pits’, as I call it, which are holes in the ground where people hundreds or maybe thousands of years ago made food and cooked soup. We have dug up very many such ‘coolers’ over the years – very, very many – and my question to the Minister for Transport is: How many such ‘supplies’ does the Minister see the need to continue digging up?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3954	I haven't thought about it, and I don't know what to answer. But I think taking cultural memory into consideration is important. I think I'll answer in another area. I was asked when I was the Minister for the Environment 15 years back in time, if we could extend the ski resort at Hovden, where there were also some refrigeration facilities, to approach the representative Johnsen's words. Then I said yes to it, but it was after dialogue with the cultural memory authorities. I think it's good when we build a road, that we have dialogue with that kind of authority. In any case, I think it's far better that we do it in advance than that we make decisions afterwards that we're very much going to undo.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3961	Thank you to the Minister for a good answer. I think we agree that some coal pits like this are important to take care of, but it's a little bit like that you've seen one, you've seen them all. If you dig one, they're not that different. Unfortunately, we know that this is a moment that leads to more expensive road construction, so it would be nice if the minister could at least think about it in the future. I understand that the Minister has not assessed it so far. But it shouldn't be necessary to keep digging up every ancient memory you find where people have cooked for many, many thousands of years ago. Is the minister willing to take a look at it? There is no inflation in finding coal pits like that, I hope. There should at least be no ambition about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3968	I think that neither the representative Johnsen nor I are going to make that kind of assessments. That's what I think we have professionals for. We're going to take care of the cultural memories we have. I feel that we are a nation that is very concerned about keeping track of the story we have. There is a debate going on, and then we also know that this is important for us to know our history. What's the point here is that we're going to do the kind of work in advance, because we've had projects where we haven't done our history. We can also look at regimes in other nations that we don't want to compare with, that just don't show respect for cultural memories. So we know that one has to consider what one should consider when one, for example, builds a new path, but there are good professional assessments, and I think that's the way we're going to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3975	Unlike the previous representative, Johnsen, I'm not so concerned about the coal mines, but I'm a little bit more concerned that we take into account both hoggorm, salamander and other things around that cost Norwegian road projects. We have laws and regulations to follow in order to take exactly the considerations that the majority in this Chamber will later take as if the Progress Party does not take. I think the Council of State can be very clear on what it is concrete that makes this particular scheme so fantastic. What is the pretense of using this system when we have the strict laws, regulations and rules to follow, just to take all the considerations that you say you're after, when we know that some smaller entrepreneurs are very concerned because the cost of doing this is actually quite large and makes many of them unable to submit tenders and be subcontractors, because they don't have that competence in their organization because it requires so much resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3982	What the State Road Service says is that using this certification will give us a much more systematic approach to how we follow the environmental and sustainability objectives of the projects, and that is a great advantage. This is an international environmental certification that the industry wants, as the State Road Administration wants, and I think it is important to follow it up. Now we're out early to follow up on this. I think this is going to be the standard for the different projects ahead, not only in Norway, but also in other countries, and it's the most important thing for me to listen to. I think that is how we save money on this if we think about this when we start the project, and we don't have to stop in the middle, pause or repair at the end. It's best to think about it in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3987	The Minister said in his statement that the certification scheme CEEQUAL is something the industry wants, and it is clear in this case that the Entrepreneurship Association – Construction and Construction, EBA, supports this requirement in major construction projects. Several of the speakers who have spoken today have been involved in just that and have drawn this union forward in the argumentation. But my question is whether the Council of State has received many negative feedback on the use of this certification system.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e3994	I have not received it. It is clear that there is always more work when we introduce something quite new, but I have no reason to criticize my predecessors, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and Jon Georg Dale, who have arranged for this certification. I support the work that has been done before, and I think it is a good thing. And, as I've said several times, I think it's a very good idea that we're thinking about this in advance, and we don't have to make any changes in the course or in retrospect. Then it becomes much more expensive, and in line with what is actually the proposal in the matter we are discussing here today, that we should bring down the costs of road investment, I think it is very wise to have that kind of certification.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4001	As the Council of State knows, I have been very concerned with the decision-making framework for large-scale development of transport, both in terms of the socio-economic utility models, and in terms of the unpriced impact on which they are based. These are important decisions we make, both for the use and management of land and for greenhouse gas emissions. My question with regard to CEEQUAL is simple: how can the government and the Council of State influence the parameters, the content of the requirements or the tools used to follow up these projects? Is there any dialogue or forum in which the government, the Council of State or his offices are represented?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4006	Some of the criteria contained in this certification are mandatory, and some of them are voluntary, so it is clear that the possibility we have is, for example, to consider whether some of the criteria that are optional should be mandatory. This is also how we look at the time the different criteria should be evaluated in projects. It is clear that then we have the possibility to say that some criteria might need to be considered earlier in order to have a good basis before making a decision. There are possibilities to influence this, but I am probably concerned that there is an international certification system, so there is an international cooperation body that manages it. I think it's important that we stick to the international code. At least that is a great advantage. I also feel that entrepreneurs and others accept it. There is a common regulatory framework that applies to all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4012	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What I think is interesting then is to ask whether we in Norway can introduce national requirements or national parameters into the tool that CEEQUEL is, so that there may be different requirements in different countries. Is the tool itself equal from country to country? It's pretty important questions to get answers to. I know about other certification schemes, for example: in forestry. This is something for which a selects slightly different certification schemes. We've chosen ours, but it's international and readable in different countries. How can national requirements be incorporated into that scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4017	Today, this certification scheme is similar in different countries. The mandatory criteria are mandatory in Norway and Sweden. And then you can evaluate whether there are some of the criteria that are optional, that we would have made compulsory in Norway. That's a possibility we have. But we have thought that now this arrangement has come. We're going to incorporate it. We will use the experience from other countries. We've been thinking that we shouldn't have strange rules for it, but it'll be a possibility if we experience that way that we can improve the scheme. For the time being, we have said that we are adhering to the international legislation, that it is the same certification system. Then we can use experience from other projects, not only the two that we have now had in Norway, but also from international projects that have followed this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4022	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4029	I'm just going to make a brief comment to the representative Johnsen, who I think was a bit selective in his quotes when he picked out that this will cost a few kroner – and that will. What remains in the setting is that it is difficult to distinguish whether this is in isolation linked to this environmental certification scheme or whether there would be costs that would in any case be incurred because of the requirements that lie there. So it's a little bit too easy just to refer to it. And if he reads even a little bit further into the setting, which we're behind, we also think that this can have a positive significance in the long term by allowing us to improve the cost-effectiveness of the projects. I would also like to note that it is for a project of over 200 million. This is the case, so not all large and small projects in the road sector would be required for this environmental certification scheme. For a lot of people, it's a little bit bigger project, over 200 million. kr. So overall, I think this will be good, simply because we need to have this type of certification scheme in order to also be able to document environmental impacts in this type of road project, and in so far as the transport project in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4036	I'm a little uncertain about how many people in this room I can convince you that this should be cut out. But our starting point is that I hear that everyone says that the organisations are very much in favour and that this is very good. At least we've got input from several organizations that believe the opposite, and that's worried. Their members are concerned about the consequences it has for a small enterprise that is subcontracting to these projects that the previous representative was up and talking about. So that's how we have a law today that is very comprehensive in terms of demands for everything. We've moved roads because of hoggorm, we've moved roads because of hubros, we've moved roads because of salamanders, and we've made sure to build a salamander hotel. We've spent a lot of money on a lot of strange things when it comes to transportation, so it might not be strange that it costs a lot of money in this country. I record that the Council of State did not respond to what is so great about this particular scheme, which one cannot manage to fix even with all the requirements we already have in Norway today. I agree that you should actually take into account and do things quickly and early, so that you do not risk having to change afterwards. But that's exactly why New Roads and the new way of thinking behind the way out came. That's what was the whole point. The progress party was concerned that we should think more long-term and more holistically and develop more holistically. Then you take care of those considerations early in the process. Then you build smart, and then you can take into account other important areas that we have to take into account. But I still have not received a proper answer as to why this is such a great system in relation to what we can do in Norway even without having to have an international approval system.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4045	I really didn't intend to sum up, I was going to take almost some kind of longer line to the representative Hoksrud, but I could try a little summary to the end anyway. It seems that there is quite a consensus to isolate the Progress Party in this matter, and I am very pleased about that. It is now the case that the Progress Party has never appreciated any particular value for neither salamanders, hubros, nor other creatures. I can live with that, but what I do not fully understand about the contributions of the representative of Hoksrud is that he does not take into account that it is actually a necessary factor for the competitive situation of Norwegian companies. I don't understand. We almost always have demands that become international and that become references in a competitive situation. If you have not gone through that reference, that certification, you lose in competition. This is a very important point, which I think the representative Hoksrud has to worry about. We have different arrangements, including in the case of Norwegian construction, for example. Some are Norwegian, some are international. We have different TEK requirements, we have a lot of different requirements like this. Then you can refer to a common norm in a way. If you don't have it on your inner pocket – a kind of certification – you actually lose in that competition. The EU is quite forward-looking on this, with its new European green hand, so I think we will see more and more such certification schemes in different fields. And then we lose in the competition. I think the Progress Party is very concerned with competition. They're liberals, they like to have competition, but they're sailed without any specific requirements. But I don't think we have a choice. I don't think we have a choice anymore – we have to go into such certification schemes if we're going to read a common language, in a way. It's a little important for me to be told. I just think that it could be a bear service the Progress Party is trying to get to here. If this had been adopted, I think it would turn back on Norwegian entrepreneurs, at least when it's that the limit is at a few hundred million in sales. Then you shouldn't be so worried about the little ones either.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4058	I'm not going to pull out the debate, but since the representative Hoksrud hadn't got my answer, I'd like to repeat it, because it's just the systematic approach that this certification gives, which gives a profit. Then we know that before we start building, we have done the basic job itself. We then know that there will be no significant costs after we start building, or that we have to stop, change during the journey or repair at the end. I believe that – as also the representative Arne Nävra said – Norwegian industry sees: that they should make projects abroad, this kind of demands and leaders will come, and then it is good that we are in the forefront. I feel that this understands the industry, and they want to do just that. We also work on fossil-free sites, just to show that we can get emissions down, because this is also about environmental impacts. And if I can say that, the representative Arne Nävra is also a very well-known photographer, and I've actually had the pleasure of giving him a prize, just for documenting the values this certification scheme wants to last.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4067	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4084	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4091	I would greet so much from the case rapporteur. He has a bit of involuntary quarantine, and then someone has to step in. First of all, I just want to stress that the map map network is important to all of us. It is important for both housing and business throughout the country, and especially in North Norway and parts of the West. There is no doubt that we want to contribute to the development of the short-range network. The map network has a long and proud history, and I would say it serves the country well by connecting a very valuable part of the country in a good way where there are not so many good alternatives. I'm concerned that we're going to further develop this. Now we have - and we're in the middle - a pandemic, and we hope that we may be moving out of that pandemic soon. It also makes it necessary to put a foot in the ground. Will it still be that part of the routes that maybe before the pandemic was commercially sustainable, will it be after the pandemic? We're prepared to look at the FOT system again, and that we need to facilitate the development of this in line with the travel patterns we want to see behind the pandemic. What's the new normal going to be? In this position – where, in the context of the regional reform and in the past, there has been a majority to transfer the responsibility for the FOT routes to the county municipalities – it is now a majority to be held responsible by the Progress Party in this matter. I have to say I am a little surprised at perhaps the centre party in this matter. I am so surprised that the Progress Party has also turned the case around – but the Centre Party, which is otherwise speaking against centralisation, chooses to do the opposite in this case, namely to move tasks from the county municipality to the state. I believe that the scheme it was set up could have contributed positively to the fact that the county councils that sit closer to the population, closer to the business community and know where the shoe prints had the opportunity to adapt this offer in a good way so that we could develop it further in line with what is local and regional needs. But I just have to record that that's the majority, that's the situation, and of course we have to align with that. At the same time, I would like to point out that this could be a difficult situation for the county councils that have gradually prepared to take over this responsibility in 2022, and at the same time a challenge for the Ministry of Transport and the state, which must take it back. So the change that's happening here also contributes to increased unforeseeableness, as I see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4106	The Avinor model has served Norway and, in particular, the districts in an excellent way. The model has ensured that the districts have maintained activity at their aerodromes and the large and profitable airports contribute to the maintenance of operations by marginally profitable and unprofitable airports so that the State can purchase routes where there is no basis for profitable routes. This combination of instruments contributes to the maintenance of business and housing in large parts of the country. The situation we're in now, however, makes us have to go through to see and plan for what we want aviation to look like after the pandemic. Of course, this picture also includes a review of the short-haul network and the purchase of Fot routes in the future. The situation now is that the government does not have a majority in Stortinget. It means that this case has a different outcome than when the government had a majority with the Advance Party. Since the government presented the regional reform at Stortinget in 2017, the Workers' Party has believed that it would be a mistake to transfer responsibility for the purchase of FOT routes to the county municipalities. However, the Labour Party worked against a government that thought this was a good thing, and we did not get a majority in favour of our proposal to retain this as a state responsibility. So that's the majority now, and the reason for that is that the Progress Party has turned around, as they have done on a case-by-case basis this spring after they came out of government. We are voting today as we have voted throughout this period, while the Progress Party is waving. We see that this case presents challenges for some county councils, but the Workers' Party cannot turn around to ensure predictability of a winged Progress Party, which has also contributed to weakening the transfers to county municipalities. We are in the majority of this case. When we then know that the development of zero-emission aircraft is going faster than we know, it's important to make sure to maintain the short-range network, and then it's almost like created for example electric aircraft. It is therefore important to maintain and increase activity on the short-range network, usually also with the help of increased frequency and lower ticket prices. That is why I am addressing the proposal that we are involved in the matter together with the Senterpartiet and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4119	The representative Øystein Langholm Hansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4124	Ensuring a good flight offer throughout the country, including on the short-haul network, is important for the Progress Party. So we believe that this is the collective offer for many people in North Norway and the West that depend on using the short-range network. Therefore, it is also important to ensure that it is a good offer. It's just as important for people in the districts as the bus, the tram, the train and the T-Bahn are for people in the Central East. That is why the Progress Party is committed to having good offers throughout the country. Most people in this room, including the Workers' Party, should be very aware that the Progress Party is not a member of the County Council. The party of progress wants to put an end to the county. We believe that we should have two levels of government in Norway, and I also thought that right. To the representative The place: I thought they decided it at their national meeting. Therefore, it is not very strange that the Progress Party is now voting for what we are for, and against what we are against – so when compromises have not been reached. It was interesting to hear from the representative Langholm Hansen, who said that the Workers' Party had done so in the «this period». Yes, because it is not always that it has been that way from the Labour Party either. In fact, sometimes you have to make some compromises when you're in a government. But that also means that it's possible that when you're no longer there, you actually vote like you want to vote, in line with the party's policy. That's why we think it's unnatural to give more tasks to a level that you really don't think should be there. It's almost like putting on a five, and then they're probably repeating from the Workers' Party that the county council and the municipal sector are getting less money these years. That's not true. It's not a reality, but it's about what they spend the money on. Then I can only refer to the municipality of Troms and Finnmark. After you got a red-green board, the money for maintenance went down on the county road budgets, when they were part of this, they actually went up. It shows that it's about prioritizing. We don't think it's right that the county councils should be responsible for this. That is why we are also going for what is our primary position, that we want two levels, and then it is natural that this is the responsibility of the state. So it can't be very surprising that we actually vote in line with what we have in our program. I would like to address the proposal that the Progress Party has been promoting in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4139	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4144	Taking the whole country into service is important to the Center Party. That is why we are promoting this proposal for a representative to strengthen the short-range network, which is now being debated. Thank you to the Cooperation Committee. The provision of air services in the districts and the short-haul network is particularly important for people and businesses in many places in the north and west. High fares for short-haul air tickets make it more difficult for people to live and work in the districts and reduce the opportunities for citizens there to participate in the community. The short-haul network is both life’s nerve and public transport for many. The centre party believes that there should be small social and geographical differences in Norway. Just the need for equal opportunities across the country was the background for the Borten government to start developing the short-distance network in the 1960s, and the need is probably even greater today. I see that some of the parties that have been feeding the county councils in the districts for almost eight years criticize the proposal that the FOT routes remain state-owned. But multi-state routes need to be coordinated and adapted, and there is a need to obtain continuous routes and continuous tickets. I expect it to be done in cooperation with the county councils. The Norman Committee shall establish the following: ‘The selection considers that the high distances in Norway and the lack of alternative modes of transport make large areas of the district dependent on aeroplanes.’ And on the other hand, ‘In particular, it will be important to reduce flight prices in areas without good alternative means of transport, for example on the North-Norway short-haul network.’ It is clear that the Central Party agrees with the Norman government committee here. The difference between us and the government is that we really want to follow this advice, in terms of both cheaper and better air services and cheaper and better boat and ferry services. It will make it easier to use the whole country. There will be investments that will restore living societies and greater activity. The Committee's recommendation is promoted by the Centre Party, the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the SV, and it provides a majority in the UK asking the Government to ensure that the purchase of domestic air routes is continued as a State responsibility. The second proposal we are promoting in this matter, in conjunction with the Workers' Party and the SV, is as follows: «The government is asking for more departures and lower ticket prices on the FOT routes in forthcoming bidding rounds.» This proposal is important, and I hope the Progress Party will vote in a subsidiary way for it, even if they have their own, rather similar, proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4179	We in the left also think it is very good that we have the FOT route system. We have to be aware of what's really in it. Well, it's going to be a subsidized price. That's about. 1 million using today's FOT routes, i.e. in 2019 – not in 2020-2021, we easily forget that in all the statistics. The budget was 720 million. kr. That means that it was approx. 720 kroner per ticket that was subsidised. In proposal No 1, to which the representative Siv Mossleth referred, they say that it might need to be increased, and I think that is a budgetary matter. I do not reject it, but that is something that belongs in a budget. But I am surprised that the committee's proposal for a decision should have this to the state. Here, regional reform is really trying to bring more power down to the communities, to the regions. What we claim, and as more parties than the Left have claimed, is that you make better decisions as you get closer to where people live. I believe that the county councils had clearly been able to prioritize the flight routes to be within the FOT scheme, and not least the criteria for the tender. In my time as both municipal politicians and transport politicians, there has been a lot to do to ensure that the departures must be timely. For example, Røros-Oslo has to go in the morning, and it has to go back in the afternoon. It must not go in the middle of the day, because then there are no passengers. It must be facilitated to reach the passenger group. And who is best able to do that? I think it's the county councils and the regional politicians who are best placed to assess the tender criteria for the airlines. I'm surprised you're going to have it on the state again. I can understand it just in a transition, that you might have postponed the transition to the regions because of the pandemic, but that you take it as a permanent arrangement, I think it's a very bad thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4186	I won't say so much, almost a footnote, about the FOT routes. What SV has been very concerned about, I think all the representatives in the committee have been listening to over the last few years, is to differentiate between the short-haul network, that is, the air traffic in particular in North Norway, and the huge air traffic in South Norway. This has been a dilemma once in a while. We have had several proposals in the Chamber on the examination of different schemes, which have been voted down. I'm going to come back to that in connection with the treatment of the NTP. But that is where the problem lies to a large extent. It's not too expensive tickets in South Norway on the big planes, rather on the contrary, it's actually too cheap. There are no sustainable price levels it has often been on, and we flew, before the pandemic, ten times as much as the average in Europe. This isn't sustainable. It can't go on like that. But for the North-Norway and the Short-Range Network, we have to try to find arrangements – that is, however you turn around and turn on it, support schemes, whether they are hidden or clear – and take action that protects the short-haul network and the price growth northwards. This applies, for example: air passenger charges. There may be charges at airports, etc. What I've missed out on is the interest of changing states councils in finding the space for action, trying it out, being a little tough in the braid, using that expression, as far as the EEA legislation and the international agreements are concerned. What can we do? We've tried 20 tons of weight limits, and we know that it's a good thing for most of the Unesøe aircraft. Should they have been exempted? But I'll see again and again that it's going down in the hall. We have to, I think, find solutions within the action space we have in the EEA Agreement, which allows us to bring down prices on the short-haul network, especially northwards, but perhaps also on flights between north and south, even though the planes are large. It could be Kirkenes-Oslo, for example. These are often hugely expensive tickets. It's something that kind of separates the northern part of the country to a much greater extent than is necessary from the southern part of the country. This is at least a serious topic that I want to address here again, and we'll see what kind of proposals we come up with in connection with the NTP. Most of them are promoted and discouraged, so we can't promote them again. We have a pretty nice presidency committee that fits that. So we'll see. I'll come back to the matter there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4195	The government is busy ensuring a good route offer throughout the country. It's about being able to live and work in the whole country, and then we know that in a country like Norway, the offer of flights is just going to be very important. I think we've seen the significance of aviation in the last year as well. Although the downturn has been there, we have seen how important it is for socially critical functions, and therefore it has been important for us to maintain airports even if traffic has fallen. Then I have noticed the proposal from the majority of the Transport and Communications Committee to ask the government to ensure that the purchase of domestic air routes is passed on as a state responsibility. I want to say that when it comes to the tasks we've given to the state, to the regional level, it's for most of them both arguments for and arguments against doing it. I understand that, but I would like to remind you of the basics of transferring the purchase of flights to the county councils. It was about strengthening the county councils as a political decision-making level. It was about moving power from the state and closer to people. This is something I assume that the proposers and parts of the majority are also concerned about. Buying air routes is an important societal task. When the county councils assume responsibility, they can make their own priorities more important. They may offset the purchase of air routes against other measures that have much to say for the development of society at regional level, including other regional transport measures. The county councils will have good financial incentives for cooperation where it makes sense, and also see the health. Furthermore, it is worth noting that county councils have extensive experience in the purchase of land and sea-based transport, and that they must therefore have good authority to solve this task. Our dialogue with the county councils suggests that they take this task very seriously, and that they want to do the best possible job. We might seem something unseemly with the decision Stortinget now seems to be doing. In any case, I want to add over the plural that there will be a significant change based on the statements and the signals given to the states so far. Of course, I want to follow up the decision of Stortinget, and I think it is important that I inform the county immediately about the decision of Stortinget, so that they stop the work they are doing. So we have to come back in an appropriate way about how this should be followed up concretely.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4207	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4212	In the comment of the Council of State on the proposals, which came into the form of a letter to the Committee, the Council of State writes that he has seen through the pandemic that the effect of the changes we are now making may be slightly different from what has been done in the past. Then I wonder how the Council of State sees that one can make changes to what has been adopted policy now, in order to meet the county councils in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4217	That's a good question. There is no doubt that the pandemic has shown the need to see the air supply as a whole and to stick to one actor, who can also make the negotiations. It would be an advantage for operators to be able to stick to one contractor. So I also think that this would go well. I think the county would have good opportunities to coordinate, to see it healthy. There are some arguments that this should be on state hands, but there are too many of the tasks we have chosen to give to the state. And that's argument that the county should have continued with this. I think they would have done it a good job. The majority decision that already indicates that the Storting is going to do now, I will, of course, communicate as quickly as possible to the county, and then I will come back in my own way with how to follow up the intention of the majority decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4226	I thank you for your answer. So I wonder, in addition to that, in the case of cross-border routes, as this is – it was also pointed out by the Central Party that there is something that complicates these things: does the Council of State see that it is a challenge to deliver a task to the county councils that really affects both two and three county municipalities in one route, for example, and that it may be complicated? I would like an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4231	I'd like to admit, because these routes go across multiple states and regions, that some of the technological developments may be beneficial because the state has a clearer hand on, for example, the development of electric aircraft and the potential for it. I also think that the virus outbreak has given us some experience that allows us to assess this. I have nevertheless thought – I have thought – that the county would be able to coordinate itself in a good way. It also applies to other services on which they need to coordinate. It is my view that they would do the same in this area. But now that the Storting has been so clear, we will follow it up, and I will immediately contact the county with a message about what the Storing Decision says here, and then we will come back to Stortingen with how exactly we follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4236	We are many who have an ambition for Norway to go ahead and become a leading nation in the development, testing and phase-in of climate-neutral aviation. Then the map track network will have a new era. Therefore, it is important to intensify work to put zero and low-emission aeroplanes in place. The Short-Range Network must have a key role as the innovation arena in this green initiative. Areas with short-range networks and complete aviation and industrial environments with hydropower and green hydrogen content must be at the forefront of a new technological development in aviation. What does the Council of State think about intensifying the rate of zero-emission aircraft now?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4243	I mean, the short-range network we have in Norway is a perfect laboratory – if we can call it that – to be with and develop, for example, electric aircraft. So I'm going to be careful to tell you if there's an electric plane or if there's any other zero-emission power coming. I thought it was very good that both Avinor and the Air Safety Authority have also worked so much on this. The Christian People's Party was not a part of it, but what came into the Jeløya platform about just a bet on this has been of great importance. It has also created international interest and European aviation organisations and authorities follow exactly the work that Norway has done. I think that kind of - call it - short distances would be very suitable to work on and try this out, and it should gather Norway to make a effort to make us happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4248	I hope the minister noticed that I said zero-emission aircraft. I want to go back to February 2020, before the Coronapandemic hit, because then the Onderøe announced that they would cut 4,000 departures a year, 15 p.m. of the commercial production on the Short-Range Network. The reason was that the profitability of the commercial short-haul routes had been under heavy pressure due to increased charges over several years. Among the measures taken by the right-wing government that have led to a lower offer on the short-haul network are the air passenger charge, increased VAT on passenger transport and the CO 2 charge. According to Onderøe, they had to budget for 73 p.m. more fees in 2020 than in 2012. What does the Council of State really think about the insanely high level of taxation he inherited from the Ministers of Transport of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4260	It wasn't the representative Mossleth that I fixed when I said it on zero-driving aircraft, it was me who used the word ‘elf-plane’. I'm busy thinking neutrally as long as it's zero. So I want to say yes, we have had some fees for this sector, but I think that is also right. In fact, I believe that the fees can also be a part of ensuring that we get a real conversion. What is important is the signals that the government has sent out, among other things. in the budget for 2021, which points to the fact that zero emissions are to be passed on at much lower charges. The fees shall then be abolished. So we're going to be able to give instinct to get to the necessary conversion. I think we should make it so simple that we're going to see what we've done to the car park in Norway, where we've given our attention to the electric cars, to the zero emission cars, and it's worth being environmentally friendly. It must also be in aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4267	Now I was disappointed by the Council of State, because the technology is not there because we can have zero-emission planes yet. We have a good way to go. Based on the answer given by the Minister, it seems that it is okay that we get higher charges and poorer offers on the cable car network while waiting for a new era. We can't allow the grid to disappear until we can take this green shift. On the contrary, we have to do everything we can to speed up development, without tramping the grid with fees. Within what time horizon does the Minister really see that we can get innovative test centres in these environments into operation? The Quale Committee referred to a national/international test arena.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4274	Yeah, that's exactly what we said when it was about cars, that this wouldn't be possible. So one then, through innovation, has managed to create it. I think the same thing will happen to aviation too. Then I want to say that when it comes to the FOT supply, it has become better and better in the period 2012–2019, before the pandemic. There are more and more people who have traveled with it. I think we also have to have it that we have to appreciate travelling with low emissions, and it has to cost something to travel with high emissions. But when it comes to the FOT routes, it's a very special funding, over the state budget, and I think that's right and important. I share the view expressed by the previous speaker, that when there is a better supply, a lower price on the FOT routes, it is a budgetary issue. But it's in line with the idea that I have that we should just prioritize the FOT supply, because those who use it are totally dependent on aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4282	I'll follow up on the post I had, and the subject I brought up there. We can imagine a model where we take possible charges away from the short-haul network – there may be starting charges, there may be passenger charges, there may also be north to south – and so says: No, there should be a proceeds effect at zero, so that the state doesn't get any expenses on it, we do it either so that Avinor gets to charge increased charges on flights in the south between the major airports, where there are huge passengers, so it gets very little per passenger. Given that this model could be implemented under EEA legislation, does the Council of State think that it had been a good model? If so, would he be able to explore that possibility with the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4289	That is in many ways the model we have, because we use – and I think we should be honest – very large amounts on the short-haul network. Among other things, it applies to airports. It costs to have an airport structure that we have in Norway. We have chosen to keep the airports open throughout the pandemic. I'm glad. The same applies also to the costs of the short-distance network, with the actors and the agreements we enter into. So that's in many ways the deal we have. We can discuss whether we should strengthen him. We should at least not weaken him, and I do not experience that either is a wish from the majority today. It is in many ways the agreement we have, because it is a significant – call it – positive subsidisation of airports and airline tickets in District Norway. And I think that's right, because too many people there's no alternative to the flight routes they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4294	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4301	As everyone has said, the FOT routes are important. It's about the districts, it's about the opportunities for people in the districts to live and do business throughout the country. Therefore, it is important to ensure that there is an offer there. So it's always like this when SV and the representative Nävra come, that he's going to tell us that we're flying so much more than everybody else, but that might not be so strange. One of his colleagues in this room could take the train from the Lake of Mosque to Oslo. It takes a place between 13 and 18-20 hours, and it takes less than 3 hours by plane. Then you see that people choose the second option. Then SV would run up here and tell us how good they are on the railway, and what they did, but then it's good to remind the representative Nävra that with the Progress Party in the driving chair and with this government you have increased the railway appropriations by three times the red-green skill. So it shows that there's been a crazy increase and a willingness to bet. You have to be honest that there have been some cost increases here too, but those cost increases did not start when the Progress Party sat in the driving chair, they started long before with red-green suggestions – which almost cost nothing, but have in fact doubled several times, among other things. on Follobanen, which probably more representatives remember well. It is good that people should have alternatives, and that is why we are concerned that we should ensure a really good flight offer. Then I think the Council of State explained very well both from here and on questions about why it wanted the county council to have this task. Then it's interesting to note that the Center Party doesn't want the states to have it. I'm glad, because then they're contributing to what the Progress Party wants, that we're going to put down the county council, not assigning the county council new tasks. That's why the Progress Party is now opposed, and it can't be very surprising. As I said, we're happy now, it's a happy day today. We're making sure you don't give the county councils these tasks. And then it's okay to realize that there are several of the companies that are concerned and have disagreed that it should be transferred to the county councils. I guess it'll be a good decision for them today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4312	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4329	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4336	Thank you to the Cooperation Committee on this proposal for a representative of the members of the Progress Party on the medical grounds of the derogation for low-synthesis. Having a driver's license is too many very important. Losing the right to drive a car is too heavy. The driving licence regulations specify health requirements for driving licences and there are more stringent requirements for field of vision for driving licences in heavy classes and for running seats than there are for driving licences in light classes. The Norwegian requirements for field of vision are in line with the minimum requirements of the EU driving licence directive. For driving licences in light classes it is possible to grant exemptions and, in very special cases and following the opinion of the public, driving rights may be granted even if visual acuity or field of vision requirements are not met. Previously opened day-to-day driver card guides to allow exemptions from the regulatory requirements for vision areas to be granted under certain conditions also for driving licences in heavy classes, but after a change in the health requirements from October 2016, this was no longer possible, except that those who had already been granted exemptions were allowed to extend them by three years, until 30 September 2019. Later, exemptions granted after a specific assessment are also granted beyond that date. This is the majority in the Committee that wants to soften, so that the practice that applied until 2019 is reintroduced. The Committee is aware that health requirements for driver cabs are not covered by the Driving Licence Directive and are therefore not covered by the EU Directive. It provides national space for action. The Committee refers to replies from the Council of State where it opens an assessment of whether, in specific cases, the running seat should be possible on a medical basis after individual assessment, and whether one can make limited exceptions even where this is not possible according to health requirements for bus driver cards. This issue needs to be assessed in cooperation with health and justice authorities. There is a plurality at the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party behind the proposal in the vote, which reads: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought by the government to soften access to medically justified exemptions under the driving licence legislation, so that persons with reduced vision can be given the right to drive in line with practices in force until 2019.’ Right, which is part of the minority, will vote against the proposal. This is because of road safety and the proposed changes, as Right-wing believes, are contrary to the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4354	This is not a simple matter, but the Labour Party supports the proposal from the proposers that there be a case for softening access to the justified exemption. There has been considerable progress in standardising driving licences, both through the EU and through Norwegian requirements, including: in the case of vision. For the Workers' Party, it is important that road safety is ensured, but we also see that some people have unlawfully lost their exemption. The response of the Council of State to the Committee shows that the Directive on driving licences is being revised and that a new field of vision test is being developed. We believe that this is an additional element to facilitate a more individual assessment, and that is what we put in the committee's recommendation. We therefore ask for a matter to soften the access.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4367	It's good we haven't dropped the flags, because this is a pleasure for a person who's fought a fight to keep his licence. It shows that it is possible for individuals to raise matters and actually be able to get through. The interesting thing in this case is that this is not about the doctor saying that he cannot continue to hold the driving licence. No, there are health bureaucrats in Norway, or bureaucrats in the EU in Brussels, who decide that this person should no longer be able to hold his driving licence because of bureaucratic legislation and directives. That is why I am very pleased that a majority in the Committee and a majority in the European Parliament will probably decide on Thursday to take account of the people involved – that they will have the same opportunity to drive as the legislation gave them until 2019. I am absolutely sure that Björn Roald, who has been driving a car for 30 years, who has had no problems, and who has been with his doctor who has taken the test – and he also says this to the Sunnmørspost – can continue to drive finely, there will be no problem. Nevertheless, the rigid bureaucratic rules that would prevent him from continuing to have that opportunity. Therefore, it is a bit a shame that not the whole Stortinget would support this proposal, which I am very pleased that SV has said they support – if not SV would turn around, but I don't believe in it – but the Zenterpartie does not support the proposal. It's a happy day for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4378	The health requirements for holding a driving licence generally follow from Annex 1 to the Driving Licence Regulation and Section 9, second paragraph, of the Rules on field of vision. There are stricter requirements for field of vision for driving licences in heavy categories and for having a driving licence than for driving licences in light classes, and the driver’s licence guide provides detailed guidance to doctors, opticians and eye caregivers on examination of the field of vision. In the case of driving licences in light classes it is possible to grant exemptions and, in exceptional cases, a driver’s right may be granted, even if the requirements for visual acuity or field of vision are not met. The visual function must in such cases not be further impaired due to other conditions. The driving assessment must have been carried out at the request of the State Manager and driving rights must be recommended by the State Road Administration. The centre party is committed to the proper functioning of the legislation and does not have any unintended consequences. We find it somewhat unclear what is meant by the proposal, and think that the author of the proposal is somewhat unprecise in his problem position. The centre party is of the opinion that the changes made to the legislation may have unintended consequences, and we want an assessment of how the legislation can be amended to prevent undesirable effects. It is important, in the opinion of the Centre Party, that the Storting should have a broad and comprehensive assessment of the situation now following the introduction of the change in the rules. It would not be appropriate to conclude until the consequences of the specification requirements have been highlighted, both in terms of road safety and, where appropriate, in terms of excessive practice, which results in driver fit to carry a driving licence being removed from the driving licence. It is also important for the Central Party that the Norwegian State, on behalf of its inhabitants, finds good solutions for Norwegian drivers on Norwegian roads and that the rules laid down in Brussels should not be decisive. The centre party has promoted its own proposal in this case in order to get an assessment of how this practice has worked in everyday life, and has in no way concluded in the case, but we believe that in road safety matters it is important to obtain facts before the decisions are taken. It is on that basis that we are promoting the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to assess the functioning of exemptions from the health requirements for driving licences in order to ensure that drivers who are fit for driving licences receive them and return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4394	Then the representative Siv Mossleth mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4399	As I understand it, it has been a single matter that has led one to consider this matter, and to the commitment of her as the Storting has shown. I don't know more about matters than from the media, so I can't answer what was the basis for the outcome in the specific case. But what I want to say is that it is possible today, in line with the driving licence directive, to grant exemptions from the current vision requirements for driving licences for cars and motorcycles, that is, light classes. However, it is not possible at present to grant new exemptions from health requirements to show driving licences for trucks and buses, that is, heavy classes. Corresponding to the health requirements for running seat. Then I see that the multiple in the setting has recommended the following: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought by the government to soften access to medically justified exemptions under the driving licence legislation, so that persons with reduced vision can be given the right to drive in line with practices in force until 2019.’ I do not see that it is in line with the minimum requirements of the driving licence directive to now grant exemptions from the vision requirements for the driver's licence for the truck and bus. I would therefore like to stress that I do not see that we have any room for action, within the commitments we have under the EEA Agreement, to reintroduce the exemption rules for health requirements for the viewing of driver cards for buses and lorries, which were phased out in 2019, if that is what the Committee wants in the setting. It is not clear from the setting that Stortinget wants to comply with our obligations under the EEA Agreement. I would therefore suggest that the follow-up to the decisions of the Stortingen on this matter should take place within the framework of our commitments under the EEA Agreement. In this context, I would like to point out that we have room for action to change the health requirements for running seat. Therefore, in the first row, I want to follow decisions from Stortinget to look at the possibility of dispensing from the health requirements for the driver's seat for taxis. Such a change could result in people who do not meet the health requirements for vision, after a specific assessment of their health and under more detailed conditions, continuing to be taxi drivers, as it may appear that the situation is in the individual case referred to here. Otherwise, I would point out that the driving licence directive is under review. If there are changes that increase the national space for action in such cases, it would be useful to do so in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4417	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4434	IALA is the abbreviation of the International Maritime Navigation Organisation. This proposal proposes the ratification of the Convention on that Organisation. This organisation for which ratification of the Convention has been proposed is the forerunner of an organisation that has previously held the International Navigation and Lights Organisation — necessary for international shipping both before and after. The Committee agrees that the Convention should be ratified and that the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy has acceded to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4441	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-18.ana.ud299e4456	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? – Then has not happened, and the meeting has been cancelled.
