ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e28	For the sake of infection prevention, the President proposes that the public gallery be closed during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e44	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e53	There are many people who have stood on extra through this special year we have behind us, and today I want to bring out those who work densely on our children and our young people. Every day teachers, kindergarten teachers and other employees in schools, kindergartens and child protection go to work to give our children the best possible security in an insecure time, and they do a wonderful job. Many of them are worn out. They have a demanding management of infectious disease rules, many additional tasks and notifications of changes coming from one day to another — at the top of a professional everyday life that was already hectic and how many felt inadequate. One of the teachers in winter, Elin, told TV 2 that there were three reasons why she gave up a profession she really thought was the dream profession. First, she could no longer do the enormous amount of work and being alone in the classroom. Second, she no longer felt safe at work, because she was unvaccinated and every day was exposed to possible infection, and she felt thirdly like a piece in a system that was more concerned with achieving all the objectives than having focus on learning and playing. In January, a study showed that more than half of the teachers have applied or are considering looking for a job outside the school. In addition to this, there is too much access to teacher training. Last year, there was a decline — a sharp decline — in the recording of both primary and secondary school teachers, and next year more than 500 applicants will become teachers compared to last year. At the tamp of these eight years, the Right is heading towards a dramatic teaching shortage. How can the Prime Minister stand and look at this, and what action does she intend to take to counteract this serious situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e64	I agree that the teaching profession is one of the most important professions in Norway. Being responsible for helping make our children ready for adulthood is important. It is an important profession, and therefore it has been a high priority for this government to raise its status. That is why we were elected in 2013 to a programme that was clearly in favour of continuing education for teachers, because 70 pst. teachers then expressed the need for continuing training in order to be able to do more. So we've fulfilled this, and we're still going to do it in a big way, because there's always new goals to be able to get well educated. In addition, we said that we should raise the character requirements and set the competence requirements in the core subjects of all teachers. We've raised character requirements. In 2013, the Workers' Party agreed, and when we decided to just do it in mathematics, we got criticism from the Workers' Party that we didn't do it in more subjects. I understand that they have now changed their policy in this area. But it's pretty important, and we've learned something about how to get completed teachers. It's like the dropout in teacher training has been great for many years, and the main subject that people have crossed is mathematics. There's been a lot of big headlines about it. The degree of implementation of teacher training is now higher. That means that even though there may be fewer applicants, a little less qualified, we might get more teachers in the future. In addition, we have done a great deal with continuing training, with the status, enhancing competence to ensure that all students can meet a well-qualified teacher in the classroom. We're increasing the number of teachers in classrooms, because we've made a teacher's norm. The Christian People's Party has taken responsibility for it, but also before that we had said that in order to be able to bet on early efforts, we had to have more teachers. That is why there was already money for more teachers in the government's budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e73	None of these answers answered the challenge this teacher, who has now chosen to quit, picks up, and which is the kind of answer we get from teachers today: the amount of work, being alone in the classroom, being insecure at work and being a piece in a system that is more concerned with achieving many goals than having a focus on learning and playing. The working party is too far-reaching knowledge requirements, but it is strange to say no that a student who has 6 in Norwegian, but 3 in math, can become a Norwegian teacher. That's what we want to focus on and make more accurate. But what the Prime Minister has described as her promise – we are familiar with it, continuing education is for, we have supported it, it began in our time, and we have granted it in our budgets – is the situation that is real in school today, where teachers end, and more and more will end. Why does the Prime Minister think that up to half of those who work at school are now thinking about a different profession, if it's as pink as the Prime Minister has described?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e80	The reality is that you have 6 in Norwegian, it's unlikely that you have very bad mathematical characteristics. There might be some other example, but in general it's not like that. It doesn't help with the fact that all teachers who are taught in Norway have compulsory mathematics, and when you get the iron percentages that we had, if you go back 15-20 years in time, on 60 and 70 pst. So in mathematics in some classrooms because the qualification base was too low in mathematics, you're not going to finish learning. We're concerned that you're getting ready to learn. School Norway is like this: if you only have perspectives on the big cities, you can think that you only teach in Norwegian, but most schools in Norway have teachers who teach in several disciplines, and you teach for example. in mathematics. If you can't do elementary fractionation, you can't do the fifth grade curriculum in Norwegian school, and that's actually what's one of the largest deletions. That's why there's a context in what we're doing, so this helps us get more teachers out of teacher training. The representative, Gahr Støre, should be happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e87	There will be follow-up questions – Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e92	The problem is that there are more teachers out of school, and for the second time, the Prime Minister does not respond. Another theme I've addressed with her before is that a consequence of this teaching deficiency is that 50 pst. by those providing special education are unskilled. Special education is particularly important for vulnerable groups. The Nordahl Committee demonstrated that half of the special education is provided by assistants. They're doing a good job, but that's not the goal we should set. During the pandemic, VG has documented that 9500 students lose hours they are entitled to special education and adapt to Norwegian training. So the most vulnerable are the losers. It's a challenge we have to tackle after the pandemic. But it's like the back door is on a wide gap today, and from 2013 to today it's on average 25 pst. more unqualified in school than before 2013. Is the Prime Minister satisfied with this, and does she think this is the right offer for the students? And once again, can she comment on why there are so many teachers who want to leave school?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e101	These were several questions. To the last question: I understand that this year has been stressful. It has been very demanding to be a teacher this year. We must have great respect for that. Going on yellow and red measures and having digital education and not knowing from week to week, for teachers who have great self-respect and want to do the best for their students are, of course, very demanding. That it gets heavy, and that it makes you feel that it's difficult now, I have a lot of understanding for it. But luckily it gets better, because when the vaccines are rolled out, when the reopening is there, we go back to the normal situation in Norwegian schools. When it comes to the issue of special education, it was precisely this government that put the spotlight on when we set up the Nordahl Committee: we wanted to see how we could do special education better. That's why we delivered a big message at the beginning of this period, about early efforts, where we systematically follow up. That's why we're also providing more teachers with further training in just special education in the future, and it's our goal. We're not going to let those who have the biggest problems in Norwegian school, those who need extra help, meet with unskilled people. They shall be met by experts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e108	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e113	There is no need to reduce a sample if the figures show that the number of unskilled persons is increasing, and that half of those providing special education are not qualified to do so. This is a fact in school everyday life, and the Prime Minister tells us about all the other measures. This is a fact, that the search for teacher training goes down, is a fact, and that people want to leave school, is a fact. The Prime Minister does not have answers to these points. Yes, they come back to a normal situation after the pandemic, but as very much as other things, the pandemic seems like a magnifying glass on the themes that were before the pandemic. There I believe that the government has no answer to how we should meet the teaching shortage Norway is on its way. We have a lot of questions for professionals and carers, but now we also see them for teachers. We have been documented here in the Chamber that the Right as a Rescue Party does not meet the requirements, and now it is the Right as a knowledge party that fails, because the teachers, the most important in the school, are an exposed resource, they are on their way out, and the Prime Minister has no answer to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e123	We have answers. We have a lot of answers, which the Workers' Party initially agreed with. When they joined us before the 2013 elections, when they realized that the red-green school policy had gone bankrupt, they decided that they were more of a professional requirement and more knowledge for the teachers – all that we have now implemented, and that they did not choose to implement when they were in government. So we said that the next step, in 2017, was early action. Now we have taken the great promise of continuing education, which continues, but then we take early action. Special education is one of the key elements. That's why we're now working on getting more professionals, giving them additional education and knowledge. That's why we're turning the use of money from Statped to the municipalities, so we're moving those who work with special pedagogy, closer into the classroom. We delivered a big message about three and a half years ago, which has been dealt with here. There was a relatively large consensus on the measures, which we are now rolling out. So on the contrary, we have answers. The working party has no new ideas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e132	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e137	The problem is that the answers and the headlines and reports provided by the Prime Minister do not meet in school everyday life, do not meet those who are the most important ones out there and who are required to deliver the results. But let me go one step further. The woman I mentioned, who quit school, pointed to this with vaccination. Employees in schools and kindergartens cannot protect themselves by distance and protective equipment, as other physically employed persons can. The Labour Party asked earlier this year that employees in schools and kindergartens should have their place in the vaccine queue. It was then rejected. The World Health Organisation has now said that staff working with children and young people should be given priority in phase 2 of the vaccine strategy. I noticed that the Public Health Institute came with its professional advice on 7 April and opened up to allow the employees of schools and kindergartens to move into the vaccine queue. The Minister of Knowledge said that a mission has been given to the FHI to reconsider the vaccine strategy. Now it's not long left of this school year, but there's still time, and those who work in child protection and with other vulnerable children who need follow-up should also work in the summer. Will the Prime Minister consider changing the strategy to ensure these people's vaccination?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e150	Teachers are very important, but the most important ones in school are the children. The most important thing is for the students to go there and learn. They are now meeting more skilled teachers. Although there are more unskilled students in school, there are more in school overall. So every student meets more people who are skilled and who have education, because we've invested a lot in the last few years. So it takes time to turn the school in some of these areas, not least to give enough skills and training, but the effort we have at an early stage, where, for example, the Workers' Party. is an important aid to these children. As far as the vaccine strategy is concerned, we are waiting for it. We haven't come to phase 2 of the vaccine work yet. What's my question back again, and I know that I'm really not going to do this, so excuse me, but will the Workers' Party say at any time that they think the teachers are going to be vaccinated before the nine priority exposed groups, or are they in the next phase? In that case it is that the next phase has not yet begun.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e159	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e164	The most important thing is the children, says the prime minister. Yes, but my point is that in order for our children to be safe in the hours we are not with them, they will also learn from safe people at work, those who meet our children and young people. Those in these jobs now have experienced a year of insecurity. They're not protected. Those are strong stories. One thing is school life, another thing is children with special needs in child protection, children with developmental disabilities, etc., who meet adult personnel who have not been vaccinated. My appeal is just very strong to see this group, the meaning of them, because I think that the top of Elin, who said she was going to stop, was just this, it was the drop that was asked to float over so that she ended: a working day that was too demanding, where she was alone in the classroom, with too many unspecified target requirements and test requirements, and reach this at the top. If we are to be sure that our children are doing well in school, we must also be sure that those who meet our children have protection and vaccine, and that should be a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e173	I notice that the Labour Party does not have – they did not have it in the previous Question Time either, when the Minister of Knowledge was asked about this – some answer to where they themselves believe that the teachers should be placed in this priority group. This is what matters. We are still vaccination people from 18 to 65 years of age with underlying diseases. That's the main vaccination – plus that we're now vaccinating down to those who are over 45 years of age. It has always been in the vaccine strategy, which is the nine priority groups. Then we start mass vaccination when we're done with it. At that point we have said that we should get a report and go through it and see how the priorities should be. That's the area where we've seen, including from the teacher's organisations, that it's natural to see if we should give priority to teachers. In addition, there is not an excess of infection among teachers, with the exception of little neighbor in the most vulnerable urban areas of Oslo. Statistically, there are other groups that are more infected.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e182	Roy Steffensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e187	I hear that the representative Gahr Støre has read statistics on how many teachers are applying for the teacher's study, but has forgotten to read how many are coming out. It's actually 1,900 teachers who are graduating this year, compared to 1,200 when the red-greens crashed. In addition to the competence of the teachers and the teacher's vow, which the Progress Party has been and has started, I would like to talk a little bit about the physical working conditions of teachers and students. The NRK recently reported that thousands of Norwegian schools have too poor indoor climate. Abnormal growth of moulds, non-functioning ventilation systems and many with asthma storage facilities is reported. In a recent report, it is estimated that the maintenance seat run is only in Norwegian schools of about 160 B.C.E. kr. What does the Prime Minister think should be done to improve the indoor climate in Norwegian schools, so that the working conditions for teachers and the learning environment for students improve?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e194	I think it is important to make sure that you have good learning conditions and that you have good indoor climate and good ventilation facilities in all Norwegian schools. I believe this is a responsibility for the municipalities to prioritize and to ensure that they maintain their school buildings better than they have done so far. There's a difference between municipalities. The municipality of Bergen took a rather large lift to get up to a much better level. Instead of doing what has often happened in the municipal sector, it is important to refrain from maintaining maintenance, on the contrary, to contribute to continuous maintenance, so that the large maturity does not recur in new rounds. That's one of the reasons why you have a target of an operating result of plus for the municipal sector in the guidelines we're trying to work on, so that there's enough money to make these investments and take the annual maintenance. But I want to say that it is the municipalities that are responsible for the maintenance of the buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e199	Roy Steffensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e205	I hear that the Prime Minister points to the municipalities and points out that they have the primary responsibility, and that is the right thing to do. But the municipalities have shown that they do not want to give priority to this. Then Stortinget should consider whether we should take a certain responsibility. We can get a big boost if we work specifically. When the country had a Right Party government, it was offensively committed to reducing the maintenance run on the road and rail. It had developed in a negative direction for several decades, but the result has been increased appropriations for maintenance, reduced maturity and increased road safety. For the Progress Party, it is also important that teachers and students have a good physical and psychosocial environment at school. Unfortunately, today's downturn in school buildings creates poor physical working conditions at schools, and then the question is, since we got it on the road: how will the Prime Minister take the initiative in a plan to clean up Norwegian school buildings, and thus get a better learning environment for students and working conditions for teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e214	The road maintenance run that we adjusted – we have taken a big leap in this government period – is the state responsibility. Then, in the national transport plan, we have spent more money on county roads to ensure that this is also happening. We have some transfers every year, where we've increased something more on county roads than what's been before. But we have not entered large maintenance packages for road in municipalities or counties, nor have we done so here. We have a framework transfer to municipalities, where we assume that they will both make investments in school buildings and invest in maintenance to ensure a good learning environment. Many municipalities do. Many municipalities have built new schools. Not least, many municipalities have built quite large and beautiful new schools with a very good learning environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e219	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e224	Neither the Advance Party nor the Right seems visibly concerned about the teacher recruitment. In addition to many leaving the teaching profession, the number of applicants for primary school teachers has fallen by 22 pst. in the course of two years. It's quite serious. Experienced general teachers are no longer, in the eyes of the government, finished teachers. They shall be separated from 2025. That means that many experienced, good teachers at my and the prime minister's age are going to leave the school, are going to stop. We can't afford that, because if the general teachers are pushed out of school while the teacher's recruitment fails, one doesn't have to celebrate mathematics to understand that it's going to be difficult for a lot of schools to get qualified teachers in the years to come. The Prime Minister says she wants everyone to have qualified teachers. There are a lot of people who don't have it today. What does the government really prefer — to let the students be taught by experienced general teachers who were trained before 2014 or unqualified workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e231	We prefer to give our children the best: good teachers with up-to-date knowledge. That's why we've prioritised billions to just this in this government's period. Therefore, we encouraged all municipalities – quite early in this work, we said that all municipalities need to identify the skills needs of their municipality, they need to choose who needs to take continuing training in order to maintain their competence, they need to give priority to having the opportunity to do so, so that they still have good teachers. I assume that Norwegian municipalities actually do, that they sit down and talk about that here we have x number of people employed. It is a municipal responsibility to take care of their employees and to ensure that they are offered. The state pays a lot to just make sure that all of these become competent, that by 2025 Norwegian students will meet teachers with fresh competence in the fields in which they are going to teach. It is important to raise knowledge in Norwegian school. This is a declaration of love for Norwegian teachers. We give them what everyone really wants: up-to-date knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e236	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e241	Norway has one of the world's best health services, but when it comes to the approval of new drugs and treatments, we're in the backyard. Many sick Northmen do not receive the treatment they need, and this leads to unnecessary suffering and premature death. A recent report shows that Norwegian patients are waiting longer for new drugs than patients in other countries. Norway is in the seventh place out of a total of 10 countries in view of the availability of hospital products — when compared with other comparable countries in Europe. That's not good enough. All 30 pst. of all products authorised by the European Medicines Agency from 2015 to 2019 are not yet available in Norway. At the base of 50 pst. of the medicinal products not available to Norwegian patients, authorisation has been sought but has not yet been approved by the Decision Forum. When decision-making forums spend far too much time authorising or rejecting medicinal products that have already gone through the rigorous and comprehensive authorisation process of the European Medicines Agency, Norwegian patients are affected. The report shows that, in particular, there are medicinal products for rare diseases which are not available to Norwegian patients, in contravention of the decision of an overall health and care committee, which stressed in the examination of the prioritisation notification that treatments with good benefit for rare diseases with a high severity should be prioritised. My question to the Prime Minister is: What does the Prime Minister think about medicines that other countries in Europe offer their population being rejected by Norwegian health authorities on the grounds that they are not cost-effective?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e254	Health services in different countries are very different. Many countries have an insurance-based healthcare system, which helps to make access to new medicines very different. Although a medicinal product is authorised in a country, it does not mean that it is available to the population of that country. It depends on whether the insurance scheme or the health funding scheme you have in that country will pay for it. In Norway, we have a tax-funded healthcare system, which I think is very good that we have. It helps everyone, regardless of their background, to have equal access to help and treatment. It's not perfect for social differences, but it's better, and a better basis, than in many other countries. This also means that in some areas, we need to have some principles about how much we apply to different forms of treatment. So then we have a decision-making forum that assesses the benefits of treatments, which assesses the health benefits of it in relation to the different areas. So under this government, we have had a significant increase in the ability to try out new treatments. But these priorities still have to be in our health care, because if you give priority to a disease with opportunities, but low benefits for some, where it costs a lot, it will go beyond what you have available to treat others, who might benefit more from the treatment that won't be available. Of course, we could have lived in a world where we have unlimited financial resources. We haven't, and we've chosen a priority system, and we've chosen a decision-making system, which I think I also answered questions about in the previous Question Time. We try more, and if the benefits are good, medicine and treatment are also used in the Norwegian system. Comparing systems where a large part of the bill itself is paid, with systems where it is publicly funded, does not give a proper picture, because then the medicine is not available to the population in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e265	I would assume that the Prime Minister can agree that we can compare ourselves with Denmark. In Denmark, an average of 154 days is taken before the introduction of medicinal products. In Norway, it takes 522 days. Time is a resource that many with severe diagnosis do not have. It appears that the price will be decisive each time new medicinal products are authorised. It is also the feedback from many patient organisations. TAGRISSO is a medicine used to treat lung cancer patients. It has been in the system for new methods since 2015 and was only approved for Norwegian patients in March 2021. It has been in use in Denmark for five years already — five long years for those who have been waiting for the drug, for Norwegian patients who did not have the opportunity to spend extra time with their loved ones. How can Norway be aware of being a retard in approving new medicines in relation to other countries we like to compare with, when it causes people to suffer and in the utmost consequence die?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e274	That's exactly why we have a system of priorities. It is to measure the effect of new treatment methods at price and cost with it. The system ensures equal treatment between different types of patient groups and different types of disease. There is no doubt that this is demanding and difficult, and it may well be that we can do things that will make things faster in the future. But it is a broad majority of the Storting that has said, first of all, that we should have a prioritisation system in our healthcare system, and, second, that we have a sample, between health companies, that approves new treatments, and for example. the use of new drugs in those forms of treatment. So as I said, we've increased the possibility of testing and other things, but it's probably not perfect. There's probably some things we're late on, and some things we're fast on, depending on our assessments and our professionals' assessments can be different.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e281	It opens for follow-up questions – first Sylvi Listhaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e287	It's definitely not perfect. On the Day Revy this weekend, we could meet Kari Tunstrøm. She had lymph node cancer with a spread at the age of 48 in 2004. 15 years later she was declared cancer free after receiving advanced cell therapy through a clinical study. The study has shown that half of the patients become cancer free with this medicine. Last week, this medicine was denied in the Decision Forum. I have been contacted by the Cancer Association, and they were not only concerned about the fact that the medicine has been refused, they could also show me what meets those who are trying to understand why it was no in the Decision Forum: that's what it looks like. [[Listhaug shows up a letter.]] So the decision is three sides of censorship. There is no possibility for anyone to assess whether this is a good or a bad decision. Does the Prime Minister mean that we can accept secrecy, and that there are no people who control decisions that determine whether people will live or die?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e294	Because I don't have an overview of that decision or what's on those sides, I can't say whether it's right or not, or whether it's secret or not. I assume that, among other things, is information which is a business secret in such a case. There'll be many places where there's that kind of information, but I can't comment on the substance of what's behind the secret. I assume that the decision-making forum will also follow the rules for public decision-making and public decision-making. We've given many permits and increased the number of permits for clinical studies to allow for the testing of new medications. But at the end of the day, the decision-making forum has to assess whether the extension of life and the possibilities of medicine are greater than the costs. In this case, it will deprive other patient groups of the possibility of treatment, because, as I said, we have a system in which we also have to assess the costs of taking some treatment when others are allowed to spend money on this treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e301	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e306	It is a matter of priority, and in addition to Norway being a retard in the authorisation of new medicinal products, very few patients are offered trial treatment by the pharmaceutical companies themselves. The compassionate use scheme allows serious sick patients without other treatment options to have promising medicines tested before the medicines can be placed on the market. It's free for the public. However, due to strong restrictions, very few patients in Norway are able to receive this treatment. Only four such treatments are offered for serious illness in Norway, while in Belgium this figure is 56. The expert panel to advise on current treatment options for patients with severe disease and short life expectancy is of the opinion that access to the compassionate use programme in Norway is very difficult today. Only one patient — one patient — had access to such a programme after their recommendation last year. Does the Prime Minister think that it is okay for fatal patients who have a short life span to not have access to new treatment options that the pharmaceutical companies will fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e313	We're here to give you the opportunity to try out treatment. We have also said that we should evaluate this panel of experts that we have to provide advice. In addition, we have a national expert treatment guide. We have an action plan for clinical studies to get an ambitious policy for obtaining more clinical studies in Norway. So we don't disagree that we're going to work on getting more people who get permission for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e318	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e323	The Progress Party and the Right have had a very naïve market faith in the preparedness process, that the market will never fail even if the preparedness is challenged. We've read the Corona Commission's assessments that we got recently, which were very crystal clear on several conclusions. I would like to read what the highest official in the Ministry of Health said to the Commission: “We were not prepared for the possibility that we could not buy things for money in the usual way.” Thus, in the crisis, it was not possible to purchase infective equipment – as simple as oral bandages. The government had made an active – or passive – choice not to build emergency warehouses, even with the clear feedback from the Health Directorate and the experience from previous crises. The Corona Commission is crystal clear. I can quote a sentence, that's after it says a little about previous crises, among other things. in 2015: ‘However, the government had not provided for the construction of emergency stockpiles.’ So the government made a choice not to build emergency warehouses – a choice that everyone sees is wrong today. The Prime Minister also sees that this is wrong. We have had a big debate in Stortinget for several rounds on food preparedness stocks. Food is the most basic of all. If there's concern about food, there'll be concerns about everything. If you read a little bit of history, you'll see that food crises we've had in several rounds. The unexpected can happen. There could be a volcanic eruption in Iceland. It could be a nuclear accident in Ukraine. There may be other things that cause world food supply to become unstable, and Norway may also become vulnerable. The Prime Minister has actively argued against the emergency storage of food and intended that the market should take care of it. It has been the belief of the Right Party and the Advance Party. My question is, is belief in the market as strong now as it was in the front of the coronary ape ant, when you saw that you didn't have a stockpile when you needed it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e344	We agree with the criticism that we should have infected equipment and clarify the rules for it. What was the division of work for the protection of infection was that health care companies had a care-responsible responsibility for providing infectious diseases for themselves, the municipalities for their own. The sum of it got too bad, and we should have a different way of thinking about it. What the representative fails to say is that the Commission also says that in the field of medicine, the government has thought differently and was already in the process before the pandemic to ensure better preparedness for the main medical systems. We do that by having an agreement on stocks with the different pharmacies chains and other, where we ensure that we have capacity related to that kind of question. When it comes to transferring this to food, it is important to say that we have a lot of food production in Norway. Even if we only cover 50 pst. of the normal diet’s calorie consumption in Norway with its own production, it is that in a crisis, durum wheat is not among the most important things to get access to, rather sugar, for which we have a little poor production in Norway. It is especially carbohydrates from sugar for which we have poor coverage in Norway. We may have to do without candy and small things in a period of crisis, but we have an incredible amount of fish. That's one of the reasons why we have a basis of what we have in Norway because of our own production. We have a base in stock. We have said that security of supply to Norway is one of our key tasks under the Security Act, and we will look at our security of supply as such. But then it's important to see, as far as the light debate is concerned, that we lack food because we only have a 50-pst self-production, that in a crisis situation we're going to eat a little bit different from what we have in our normal diet right now, for example. because we will not have sugar production in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e353	I notice that the Prime Minister takes quite easily on the issue, a bit the same as the government did on the infectious disease strategy before the corona broke out. In Stortinget we challenged the Minister of Public Health on better infectious control plans, and then her answer was a community merger – a little light, funny twist. The Prime Minister is trying to do a little bit the same now, that the worst thing that can happen in Norway if there is a food crisis is that we don't get candy, which is a bit of the same irresponsible convenience, to try to make a fun around it. Then the prime minister also says that you have food stores. It is not right to have food stocks in Norway. We challenged Iselin Nybø, her councillor, on it last year, and the answer was that the emergency stores you have were for 30,000 people for three days. It was the state warehouse. So, "Hamar City" for three days. It's not a warehouse. But I understand then the Prime Minister so that she sincerely believes that making an assessment that we should have better buffers, better emergency storage, is unwise and naive, and that there is no reason to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e362	I have neither used the words unwisely, naively, nor anything else about this. I just said that we have a large food production in Norway. Contrary to what the party that has close links to the agricultural sector, often says, we have quite a lot of food production. We are one of the world's largest fish food producers. We have proteins available in diversity, which lie in marrowes, which are there. We also have a lot of other things in our ability to produce. But what I've pointed out is that if we're talking about 50 pst. coverage as of today, with the diet we have in a normal situation. We will not be able to maintain that, because we would have to have supplies from abroad to have the diet we have as of today. There are reasons why we should focus in particular on having an agricultural policy in Norway. It's also for the sake of preparedness, that we use the soil, that we produce food, and that we have the opportunity to do that. But that doesn't mean we're going to have to store things that rot.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e369	It opens for follow-up questions – first Tryful Battle Force Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e375	It is fully possible to keep stocks that do not rot. We've had that before in Norway, because you've learned from history before. You saw that you were vulnerable, and you built buffers. What has been the big discussion in Norway is to have a six-month buffer on some basic products that you then put in production. Erna Solberg and Sylvi Listhaug removed the last thing we had of food stores in northern Norway in 2104, so they have believed that the market is going to fix it anyway. Of course, we in the Center Party also hope that the market will arrange it, or that the daily production will arrange it, or that we will have to import what we need. But readiness is about planning for the unmistakable, and the last year has shown us that the unmistakable can happen. It was quite unmistakable that there were people sitting with mouthbands in the staging room we had gone two years back in time. Now let's do that. The point is that there can also be a food crisis. It could be a volcanic eruption, it could be a nuclear accident, it could happen. I hope the Prime Minister takes the time to think through: wouldn't it have been a good idea for the Norwegian society to pay a small insurance premium, as Finland does, and also have a small emergency storage of food, as we now have on infectious equipment? We can't repeat the mistakes we made last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e382	I believe that there is one sector where we actually have a lot of readiness, that is within agricultural production, simply because we have a lot of national production, and I believe that we all agree that we should still have. We have a capacity to produce in our country. We have the ability to produce both fish and food, but we're going to have other types of food in a crisis situation if we're shut down for a long time, we just have to be aware of that. Then we eat a little bit differently, if we didn't get solutions. Then it's important that we have the ability to produce food, and I think we agree that our ability to produce food is important in the emergency context. We're looking at how this central function we have within the security center, which is to ensure food safety, is to be followed up in the next step. But when I say that the answer to it is not only stored, I also say that the answer to that is, among other things, the ability to produce.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e389	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e394	Then we have been told that the government and the Right are not concerned with the emergency storage of food, and that the Prime Minister needs to mention the word fish in every answer on food production. That is quite right. But then there's a running food production that's going to be ready for us. This also means that one has to have an agricultural activity all over the country, small and large, a varied production. It would be absolutely essential for food security, although the Prime Minister will certainly also mention the role of the fish. There are not so many right-wing rapporteurs who support the agricultural uprising, but the rapporteur in his speech points to one thing. He points to the importance of agricultural import protection. In these days, the government negotiates free trade with the United Kingdom. There is a real danger that the government through these negotiations will weaken the import protection of agriculture and therefore our food production. When will the Free Trade Agreement with the United Kingdom be presented, and can the Prime Minister guarantee that it will not weaken import protection and thus jeopardize thousands of jobs in the Norwegian food industry and agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e405	I can't say when the free trade agreement is over, because we negotiate, and when we have a result, it's done. I cannot provide a forecast of when we are ready for it. There are demanding negotiations. Norway has generally seen very little import protection, with the exception of agriculture, and there are demanding negotiations on these issues. So it's important to say that there's not going to be thousands of jobs that are put into play by the outcome of an agreement. Then there will be no agreement. But market access is also important for jobs, if not thousands, in District Norway, also in the fisheries sector. It is important for the districts to have market access. That's why it's important that we find good solutions. A free trade agreement is important for all jobs in Norway. The United Kingdom is our largest foreign market. If we take away oil and gas, it's our third largest foreign market. It matters to an incredible number of jobs in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e414	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e419	I record that the Prime Minister gives no guarantee of import protection. That's interesting. It is true that Norway has import protection for almost only agriculture, but it is also absolutely necessary to have it for agriculture — precisely because of the thousands of jobs in the food industry and agriculture, and in order to have food security and food security throughout the country through agriculture. So I think that's interesting. I also think it is a bit remarkable that you will not soon get the free trade agreement on the table, so that the Storting will have the opportunity to see what it says. Food production across the country is therefore important. Now we're in the middle of an agricultural settlement. I don't expect the Prime Minister to comment on it, but agriculture is constantly being assigned new tasks. The answer to the question of how it is to be financed is always agricultural. Whether loose farming or climate is required, new agricultural expectations are lessened. The government has now concluded an agreement with agriculture on climate change. In the climate communication, it is not a single positive measure to implement agricultural climate change. One pushes it on to the farm. If it is to take part in the agricultural holding, it goes beyond the income development of the farmers. Then it is the individual farmer who will take the climate bill for the government. Is that wise?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e430	We are concerned that we in Norway should implement a climate policy that causes the polluter to pay, which helps us to reduce emissions, which helps all industries to be compensated for the costs they have associated with this. That's why it's quite natural that this is within the agricultural structure, which is the easiest way to look at how stronger demands, other ways to solve it lead to increased costs, and then we look at how we do it. A completely different type of agricultural agreement could be envisaged, which was only very specific in a small area, but the agricultural agreement is such that you look at the cost development of agriculture, you look at what it gives of wage and income development afterwards, and then you try to find a balance. It is then quite natural that farming is part of this, because there will be costs associated with some of the investments and changes to be made for agriculture. Some of the measures have been chosen to use other means of operation, including on the breeding side, to reduce emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e441	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e446	In fact, the Prime Minister now confirms that any task relating to agriculture, such as: Also climate, should be left to the individual farmer – that it is the individual farmer who will take the bill for it. The community, the state and the government shall not be involved in and contribute positive measures to that climate change change but one pushes it into the agricultural settlement. What is also going to do is confuse the whole discussion of income balance between agriculture and other income groups. This is, of course, the big question in this agricultural structure: one depends so far on other comparable groups that one does not get to the leveling of income. That's what's behind the uprising you're seeing now in ours. At the same time, when adding new tasks to be financed by the agricultural agreement, one is included in the entire discussion on income balancing. The Prime Minister seems to be quite right about that. It seems that the Central Party is a major problem, and we are concerned that it does not concern the government more than it seems to worry the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e453	For very many years, the agricultural agreement has become an agreement that looks at costs and cost developments. Then you compensate for that before you measure the income trend. Then you go in and look at that kind of action. You can imagine a much narrower type of agricultural agreement where you don't compensate, don't go in and look at costs, but just look at income trends for the rest, but then it would have been a much thinner and smaller agricultural agreement than the one we've developed over time. In fact, I believe that it is natural to do so through agricultural planning, because some of the climate measures will require investment and costs, and this must be seen in the context. The government has presented farmers with an offer that goes beyond what has been offered to the front subject, and what is contained in other salary statements, both to take back the income gap and because there will be expenses we know about. Now it's being negotiated, and we have to find out the negotiated solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e461	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e466	With Prime Minister Solberg and Sylvi Listhaug's policy, the largest strawberry farmer in central Eastern Europe has received 4.6 million. kr in grants, while ordinary workers, food producers such as Jørn Skoe on Vinstra and Sondre Aasen from Seljord, are refused aid to renew production on their use. The increase in disparities, centralisation and more to those with the most history now weakens the whole of Norway’s preparedness — when soil leaves operation, workplaces are laid down and maritime supply on Norwegian resources is weakened. Does not Prime Minister Solberg see that a more social distribution of money, which provides more jobs, is also good for the Norwegian economy and not least for the safety of our people in this room and for the citizens of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e473	I cannot go into individual matters or distribution of money in that way, because I have no basis for commenting on the figures presented by the representative. But I would like to say that I have seen it as a very important and strong wish of many in agriculture to grow in areas where prices can be obtained in the market, with less subsidies, and that in the green area there has been a desire to grow and become actors. We have received a fantastic cucumber production in Norway, which means that we cover cucumber production largely for the whole of this country. In many of these areas, short-range food is actually associated with this, but production is very high in some areas. I also believe that agriculture must be part of the industries that contribute to the more efficient use of jobs in Norway, that we are able to find good solutions. We're going to have good preparedness, we're going to have good security of supply in this country, but we can't imitate Norway as it always has been. Then at least we have to put in some other goals, and then we have to be able to find other ways of feeding, something that an incredible number of farmers have done in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e482	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e487	Ordinary wage earners cannot threaten to leave Norway if they do not get what they want. However, parts of the upper class seem to have a – what to say – a little more pragmatic relationship with our country. In a survey that was mentioned in Capital, among very rich Norwegians, over 60 pst. that they will highly consider taking the wealth out of the country if the wealth tax is set up significantly after a government change. These are extremely rich people who haven't created all the values themselves in any way. They depend on Norwegian workers, educated in Norway, for whom the State pays sick pay and parental leave. They depend on roads and infrastructure, they pay people their taxes. Norway is at all a country where some become rich and where it is much easier to become rich than some to have it — not in spite of the community, but because of the community that has created one of the world’s most productive economies. Nevertheless, we now have a debate in which a number of votes on behalf of those who have come out of this economy are threatening to move their money out if tax policy is not what they want. What does the Prime Minister think about people who threaten to turn their backs on Norway and move out their wealth if they have to pay more taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e496	I think it's sad if people think they have to move out to do business in Norway. I hope everyone stays. I think their children have a good time going to school in Norway, I think they have a good time being a part of it, and we have a good time that they live here in the country, so I'll think it's very sad if there's a consequence of individual choices that each individual makes. My call will be to stay in Norway, but it shows the vulnerability of some of these forms of taxation. It's always claimed that this is just a tax on the wealth of individuals, but the truth is that for a very large number of these, it's a tax on the companies they own, and those companies, because they have Norwegian-based owners, have to pay more taxes through the owner's tax liability. Thus it would be a relief for those enterprises if they either had a foreign owner or a Norwegian owner living abroad. This Audun Lighthouse probably knows well from the city we both come from. We've had the relocation of families over time, and unfortunately it also weakens the connection to the development of Bergen as a city, because when the third generation comes, they don't have the same connection to the city that the first generation had, even if they moved out at some point. This is a dilemma. I want people to be, I want them to be able to stand through a hopefully short period of time, if there's going to be another result in the autumn elections, but it's a fundamental challenge. We need private capital. In the last 20 years, there has been more private capital in Norway. Why? Well, because we've created more private jobs, because the Norwegian economy has evolved. We also need private capital in this country to help be a partner when we're going to have funds in Norway to develop businesses. We have a farming industry and a fishing industry that goes well because we have made sure that they have good framework conditions. We have managed the fish in a good way, but we have also created more capital, and it is important that that capital is reinvested in other business activities and ensures the well-being of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e507	I am fully aware that the Prime Minister and I disagree on fiscal policy, but I am asking for a position because the position is important here. Those who come with these rather undisguised threats must also face a clear view. One who has been clearly present, and which I can therefore refer to in this debate, I think, is Jan Petter Sissener, who has a lot of money and thus power, but also a high and clear voice. He said this week to the Online Newspaper about SV's proposal to introduce a fair inheritance tax on very large inheritances: «If there is a chance that this will be introduced, it is only possible to order a moving car.» Victims who have lost children's supplements, children who have lost their glasses, people who have lost redundancy money under Erna Solberg, have had to find themselves in the prime minister's unsocial cut against people who have little, and they can't leave abroad. Does the Prime Minister not think that if people vote for a new majority, the country's wealthiest must also be found to change the distribution policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e516	I believe that everyone in Norway must find that a democratic Norway chooses the political leadership they want, and that it should all accept it. Fortunately, we have spent much more money on new welfare schemes and social arrangements in the last eight years than the representative tries to give the impression. For example, the number of care providers has increased significantly by extending the scheme. After eight years when the red-green people talked and didn't do anything, we did something about it. After eight years of talking the red-green, but not doing anything about the BPA system, we expanded the BPA system and gave freedom of choice to people. We have also contributed to the fact that much more poor children receive holiday and leisure services and a number of other things. We've spent a lot of money on sensible things, while expanding well-being in many areas. We have contributed to the framework conditions for creating work in Norway, creating jobs. The security offered by a job for the well-being of the family also depends on the willingness to invest. The large backbone in Norway is small and medium-sized enterprises with private owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e523	There will be follow-up questions – first the Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e528	It is good that the Prime Minister does not support tax evasion. I have taken a look at the open register where the parties receive financial support before the election campaign, and that overview shows that the Right this year receives NOK 100 000 in election support from a Norwegian resident in Monaco, and which has been regularly referred to in Norwegian media as a tax refugee, among others. because in 2008 he told VG that he went there because ‘Monaco has the best framework conditions for business activities, and there is no tax on income, capital income or wealth.’ It is an honest matter, but is the Right credible in the fight against tax evasion when the party accepts election support from a tax refugee?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e537	We are. We are credible in the work we do against tax evasion, although we are supported by the Nordics who live abroad and who help to believe that Norway should have a good school system, that Norway should ensure that we have knowledge and competence, that we have leading universities, that we reach the goals we have set, that Norway should continue to be a welfare society. How people choose to live in relation to how they have activity and investment, I think each one has to make an opinion about. I want as much as possible to live in Norway, because I think the Norwegian society is getting a lot better because we have owners that are close to the businesses they run and are owners of, that they are close to the Norwegian community. I believe that some of the issue of property taxes is that it contributes to more anonymous ownership, longer-term ownership, giving benefits to non-residents who own property in relation to the Nordics who own it. That means that there are fewer people who understand the Norwegian model, fewer who contribute. Therefore, I believe that SV's policy is an undermining of well-being, of jobs, and helps to break down tripartite cooperation, because one of the parties is not taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e545	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e550	Someone might think that exactly this election campaign donation would be an opportunity to demonstrate the attitude that the Prime Minister is now expressing, but that opportunity is only given to us to record that the Right has abused. Let's take the tax discussion that the Prime Minister raises. The right is concerned that it will pay to work, and it does. But there are some people who don't have the line of work to do, and they're the ones who are so lucky that they inherit hard fortunes. It is the line of inheritance that is in force in Norway today, and it really pays to inherit under Erna Solberg. While ordinary people's work is highly taxed, the sky-high inheritance of tax billionaires is zero, and that's not the case in very many other Western countries. What is it that makes it fair that people who get up in the morning and go to work, who are on, have to pay high taxes, while the country's richest can distribute inheritance without it being taxed at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e557	We removed the inheritance tax because it was an unfair tax, and very many could actually organize themselves away from that tax. Many with relatively low inheritances experienced that they had to pay taxes on e.g.: to transfer a cabin, which had been owned by the family for a long time, because the market value was high. Then we introduced the principle of continuity, which is a very important principle. It's not tax-free. You're in the same tax position as before. That means that for some people they haven't come out better since we removed the inheritance tax, because if you sell it, you won't get into a new tax position, but you'll be in the old one, like before an inheritance. So there's some nuances in the picture that the representative Light Hill is now giving of this. I believe that many countries that have a very high inheritance tax also see what is happening. It's almost not enterprises that are generational companies, because the companies end up with a completely different ownership of a generation change. I believe that in Norway, how many enterprises are anchored in local communities, and perhaps owned by second and third generations, this helps to make our districts and communities better.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e564	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e569	In this debate, we have history on our side, because in Norway, we have built one of the world's most productive economies, with high taxes on wealth and inheritance taxes, and we are doing quite well with other countries, such as the United States. taxing billionaires of sky high inheritance. I would like to ask the Prime Minister a simple and straightforward question at the end. She has been in many storms in terms of differences in her time as Prime Minister, and she has therefore also been ordered to do research work on precisely this. What was the basis for the government’s reporting of differences was precisely what researchers are quite unambiguous about: the main reason why inequality is increasing in Norway is that the richest are moving away. If the Prime Minister acknowledges it, and I expect her to do so: as long as she wants to give lower taxes to those who are already leaving, can she also admit that she has no credibility if she says she will get the differences down?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e576	The most important thing I care about is doing something about poverty in Norway. Doing something about wealth is not my absolute top priority. It is important to remember that wealth should lead to reinvestment, that we should work on the attitudes around helping to increase the number of businesses, investing in more and developing the Norwegian economy. Then we're going to tax luxury goods and other things in a way that doesn't make you feel like a zero-tax owner, no matter what kind of tax system we have. What we have now is some quite positive developments in income inequality in Norway: the Gini coefficient is a little lower, and the income inequality has fallen slightly in recent years before the pandemic. The child poverty rate declined slightly from 2018 to 2019 to the annual index, not on average in three years, but it is very clear that immigration is driving it. In other areas, there have been positive things. In 2020, there were no extra payments of social assistance, although we by the government made it easier to get social assistance through the crisis. So there's a lot of positive things in these areas that maybe the representative Lightbaking should also read.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e583	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e588	In recent months, the government has boasted of its own climate policy, and government spin doctors have been able to get expressions like ‘historical change of pace’ to appear in the media since January. It is true that Norwegian emissions have fallen, but it is only that the emission cuts are so small and go so slowly that you almost have to use magnifying glass to see them. We're talking about barely 1 pst. in the year since 2013 — perhaps less, because a few weeks ago, the SSB discovered an error in the emission accounts that means that Norwegian emissions may be as high now as they were 30 years ago and that the government is at risk of breaking its own climate targets for 2020. While Norway’s emissions have stood still, Europe has shown the world that it is possible to fix this problem of real green growth. Our neighboring countries are cutting emissions so it really monks, while economic activity is increasing. Sweden's emissions fell by 29 pst. Sweden, which has twice the population of Norway, has now seen emissions as high as we have. If we look at the EU as a whole, emissions are 24 pst. lower than in 1990. When today's youth in the 2040s is going to write the story of the first decades of the 21st century, I think this is going to appear to be a total scandal. The polls now indicate that the Prime Minister will not be Prime Minister after the fall elections. My question to Solberg is then, since the Prime Minister himself used the word «historically»: Is she satisfied with her own historical efforts in climate policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e599	I'm very concerned that as a politician I should never be satisfied. If you're conservative, you always think you can get better, you always think that society can evolve better. It's always going to be that way that we can do even more things. That's why we're never done with things, and that's why we're always going to go on. We believe that we have laid a good foundation during these eight years to achieve our objectives in 2030. Because we've believed in technology, believed in incentives, believed that it is possible to change the consumption of our society, believed that it is possible to establish a new technology, believed that it is possible to bring down emissions without stopping development, we have laid this foundation. Let's do that, for example. when we see the big change that is taking place in the car park. After all, we have gone much further than what was in the original climate agreement, where we would end up with the tax advantages on electric cars when there were 50,000 cars. We've moved on to it. We've been using biodiesel for incorporation to get more results. The green shipping programme, which we established in 2015, is now delivering results in terms of a knowledge base and a development where owners of ships are far more likely to buy others and dare to invest in new technologies. We see it in the drive that is now for hydrogen, for ammonia, for other carriers in the future. In addition, emissions are falling, and emissions in 2020 for industry show good and uplifting declines in 2020. Then 2020 was a special year, but Norwegian industry has initially had a good year in 2020, although we, especially on the oil and gas side, have had some shut-downs and other. But it shows that technology is still evolving. We've reduced the gap in non-quota emissions, and we're working on technology developments in the other areas. So yes, I mean we've laid a good foundation. But we can harvest fruits for the next ten years, and then we have to tighten even more, and we have put an entire climate plan ahead of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e610	I record that the Prime Minister is very pleased with many possible technologies that can come in if we invest in them. Before Erna Solberg became Prime Minister in 2013, she believed that Norway is too oil dependent, and that we need more legs to stand on. After almost eight years of Solberg administration, there are still many investments, some of them. six to seven times, as much in fossil energy in Norway as in all other land-based industries combined. Last year's oil tax package is so gold-edged that the Aker BP manager was recently concerned and worried about project roughness on the base. E24 describes ‘a violent on-going of renewable energy projects globally and oil projects on Norwegian soil’. The EU and the United States are thus in full swing with an inspiring green transition and green growth, while Norway is placing maximum emphasis on grey growth. So my next question is: does the Prime Minister think she has succeeded in making Norway less dependent on oil and gas?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e615	If you read the government's perspective message, you will see that it is well documented that the Norwegian economy is less dependent on oil and gas activities than before. Indeed, the impulses from oil and gas activities are significantly less in the Norwegian economy now than they were in 2013. Of course, it has to do with the 2014 conversion, but it also has to do with the cost cuts, the changes and other, and that there has been growth in other parts of Norwegian business during this period. It's important to remember that before the pandemic occurred, four out of five new jobs came in the private sector, and it wasn't in the oil and gas sector, it was in very many other sectors of our economy. We're less oil dependent now than we were in 2013. We spend too much oil money right in this crisis, we have to go down on it again, but it's not the oil money usage that's the measure of oil dependence, it's more a dependence on international exchanges in that case than it is on oil. The impulses of the Norwegian economy are more isolated from it; the effects are less on the Norwegian economy as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e623	It opens for follow-up questions – first Per Espen Stoknes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e628	If the climate plan now presented by the government represents a historic shift in climate policy, I also wonder: Why did the Prime Minister wait seven and a half years out of eight to go from word to action and put forward a plan to implement this change in pace?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e633	We've been working on climate policy every year and every day through this government's period, and we've implemented many of the measures I mentioned earlier. Among other things, we have to increase biodiesel use, we have provided predictable investment frameworks around biodiesel, which have been important. This means that we build up the home country industry around these kinds of issues, instead of what happened before, where changes in framework conditions stopped industrial projects and industrial projects. We have, as I said, the green shipping, we have it in the transport sector, and we've almost doubled the appropriations for Enova, which makes Enova a much bigger muscle in this technology development. It was a wish we tried to get rid of the red-green when we negotiated the climate agreement before 2013, i.e. in 2012. They would then not commit to that kind of transfer to the Climate Fund. We said we should strengthen the climate agreement, and we did so in the measures we put in place. So we've done a lot of things on the road, but the reason why the plan is coming now is that we've reached an agreement with the EU, we have common emission targets, and we've used the tempo plan that was necessary in that respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e640	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e645	In the last year, the government's differential policy has made the coronary crisis a classy crisis. While those in work have taken the greatest burden, both those who have been without a job and those who have had heavier and more dangerous working days, many on top have escaped. With the government's blessing, there was no requirement for a ban on dividends or rent to receive money from the community, and at the top there was not only one, but two rounds of billion cuts in the property tax for the shareholders. We might say that the government has found a so-called vulnerable group that they have also prioritised through the crisis. Many are waiting for a vaccine, while the government's miracle medicine is tax cuts for those who have the most. We've been through an unfair shut-down and need a fair reopening. The government’s reopening plan was to phase out the measures to protect the disease. What we need are the measures that also get people to work, that strengthen the community. In the outside world, we now see that the International Monetary Fund, Joe Biden in the United States and the British Conservative Finance Minister are all aware that the richest must be taxed harder now as the crisis bill is to be settled. My question to Solberg is: Who does the government think should finance the crisis measures here at home and take the bill afterwards? Is it the oil fund, is it by new cuts in welfare, the safety net of workers, or will the Prime Minister ensure a fairer settlement of the crisis bill through increased taxes on large assets, dividends and company profits?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e654	At the end of May last year, the government put forward a strategy for Norway's way out of the crisis, which was about taking care of its economic carrying capacity and developing it further, so that jobs were present even when the measures of infection could be reduced. We've been working systematically since it was presented. The measures presented at the time were the oil package, which came a little earlier. We had negotiated it in Stortinget, and it got better for the oil industry in Stortinget, and it was an important part of it to stimulate that we had activity in the supplier industry, which we were afraid of at the time. We presented a green platform that contributes to research and development and that contributes to supporting the release of businesses in a green way. We spent extra money on research and development to ensure that companies did not stop researching and participate in future projects at a time when it became more difficult. Today, the Research Council announced that there are a record number of companies that have applied for more money for research and research systems in the future, precisely because they were allowed to do what they have done in each crisis before, namely stop working to see the future and the transformation that Norway needs. That's why we've always been concerned that the most important thing in the future to make sure that Norway is good for everyone is that we have enough jobs in the private sector, enough companies present, that we've made sure that our ability to create value has been preserved. It's exciting to see how many companies are developing, how many new companies there are, and how we have shown through this crisis that we can create new things. It's the most important part to take care of, because then the jobs are there for people when they get out. It's the basic well-being. I understand that the representative Moxnes and I probably disagree that the welfare basis is created by enough private sector jobs that can help fund the other jobs. That's probably a fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e665	We agree to save jobs, but disagree that we should not have any conditions for that support, and the Prime Minister did not respond in his reply to me. The fasitite after eight years with Erna Solberg at the rudder is that we've got a tax cut of up to 35 billion. kr, if we compare with the level when the red-greens crashed. At the same time, they have implemented a number of welfare measures for many who are vulnerable in our society and have made life difficult for many people through more expensive, non-social tax increases totaling up to 43 billion. kr. It is cut in the child's pension for the disabled, cut in support for children with poor vision and also cut in holiday pay for the unemployed – a long, long list. The point is that we must turn this around and therefore I ask for advice from Mrs Solberg. Does the Prime Minister think that it is possible to reverse all of the government's cuts without increasing the tax level to about the level we had in 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e674	The government has made a lot of changes over these years, but we have strengthened well-being. We have strengthened the welfare of those who are the poorest in our country, and we show that, among other things. by strengthening the offer of services. It is sometimes difficult in income statistics, but also the Gini coefficient on income shows that it has not deteriorated. There is a wealth inequality in Norway, which is increasing, but it is the one that is increasing, not the other. It is increasing because more jobs and businesses are created and developments in Norway are helping to finance well-being in the future. We've done a lot of things to make it better to live in Norway. There are more than three times as many children who now receive a holiday and leisure service than it was when this government joined. We have assumed that we had a maximum price in kindergartens, where everyone had to pay it, so that we have now made sure that it is now free of charge at the core time. We have added income-grade payment to the school leisure system, and we are developing more of these types of schemes. There are a number of measures that are good. We have made conversions, but well-being has increased in these years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e681	It opens for follow-up questions – Bears Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e686	There's probably a part that would disagree with that description: the unemployed, the unemployed, the parents who have children who need a pair of glasses, those who have experienced the unsocial cuts of government over these eight years. At the same time, we see that others have received mild gifts from the government. Stein Erik Hagen has received SEK 700,000 in saved tax on his wing to the Right, Ringnes 300 million. kr and Christen Sveaas 2,8 mill. kr, and Leif O. Höegh has saved 9.6 million. tax due to the conversion of the taxes signed on the right. We see that the community's crisis support is now running out to non-taxable shipowners, to hotel owners who do not provide their employees with local supplements in settlement for good years, and also to property barons that leave apartments empty rather than cutting the rent. Isn't it time for those who have the most to get a greater share of the bill for the settlement of the coronary crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e695	The most important thing we get – and I'm going to repeat that on the break-in and out – is more jobs in the private sector, which are part of paying for welfare in the future. The fact that we have capital that is willing to invest in it is good in Norwegian society. We need that in district policy, we need it in urban development, we need it everywhere, because work is the basic welfare and security of people. It's missing the Moxnes representative on a continuous basis in its social analysis. But then let me take some numbers that I think really should touch the representative Moxnes. During this period of government, we have halved the number of people who are homeless in Norway, the poorest of the poor, because we have systematically worked on it. There are 4,376 more who receive care in Norway because we extended the care allowance scheme to help people with disabilities – not only those who had a fatal disease, but those who had challenges. We've spent 2.4 billion. Dr. on care, so that the number of people who receive an activity offer has increased significantly. Actually, a lot of good has happened, which should occasionally brighten the mind of the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e705	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e710	The right went twice to the choice on better preparedness. Although some have improved in recent years, we have also seen more examples of preparedness deficiencies in the last eight years. After the serious conclusions of the Corona Commission, it seems that the government wants the debate to be about the handling after the pandemic came to the country, and not if we were prepared for a pandemic. That's probably why the Prime Minister brings up the term 'paradigm shift' and says it wasn't a crisis we could be prepared for. That gives the Prime Minister an explanation problem, I believe. When the Commission writes about paradigm shifts, it's about the strategy of shutting down was new. So the government made every effort that there would be a vaccine, but choosing a strategy after the pandemic came to the country, doesn't explain what was done or not done before the pandemic came. It does not explain the lack of infectious or intensive facilities, as warned. It does not explain problems with planning, that the contingency plan for pandemic was not up-to-date since 2014 or that the actors were not coordinated in the start-up phase. This is the prime minister's responsibility as the chief in charge of preparedness. It's also a responsibility the Prime Minister promised she would take. As Erna Solberg himself said in 2013: ‘You need a Prime Minister who is in charge of these matters.’ That's why it was also alarming when the Prime Minister said they had a plan for pandemic, but not for it. So it was despite the fact that DSB showed that a pandemic could become more serious, with more infected, more hospitalizations and a health care system in a total crisis, which fortunately we haven't had with covid-19. The question to the Prime Minister is: Why was Norway not prepared for a pandemic as serious as it was warned? And why had not the Prime Minister made sure that coordination and overall responsibility were in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e721	Coordination and overall responsibility have been in place, but there has not been a good enough job of looking at scenarios where you challenge what was the established truth about how to treat a pandemic. The pandemic described by the DSB was more brief, but very explosive and with a high degree of mortality, and there we have said that we should have challenged these scenarios. The representative says that we have shown that this was a paradigm shift, but a paradigm shift is just that we choose to shut down the infection. We chose it instead of having the faith that all other pandemic plans in Norway, in Europe and in the World Health Organization had, namely that we handle a pandemic of control, but let the infection gradually pass through the population and build immunity – that is, the way some people say that Technell in Sweden has used it. We didn't choose to do that because we decided to cut the infection clear and clear and keep it under control. In retrospect, we could say that we should have seen that we should have considered more carefully, but as I said, paradigm shifting is that we considered doing exactly the opposite of what was in the plans that were made in advance, because it was perceived that these were too strong instruments and had too many consequences. For the first three to four weeks, we had a debate about whether we had closed down too much, whether our economy should not have had this. We had debates and reading articles and a lot of discussion, for example. whether we should not use the beat-down strategy, but rather let the infection spread gradually and had control over it, because the economic consequences were too great. What has been shown in retrospect, and as the Holden Committee has documented, is that this strategy is also economically better. That's why it's a paradigm shift, because what we thought in advance was that this had too much cost, but it might turn out to have less costs than otherwise. So we can say that this should be seen in advance. So we didn't because we didn't challenge those scenarios.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e734	The choice of strategy still does not affect what was done or not done with infectious disease protection equipment, plans and other things before the pandemic. The reason why I'm taking it up is that part of the points that the Corona Commission pointed out are the same as the Gjørv Commission pointed out nine years ago: problems of coordination, coordination and planning, exercises and lack of overall responsibility. This we have tried to get answers from Prime Minister and Minister of Justice three times a week and asked what it has to say for further work. It has not been answered by the Minister of Justice or the Prime Minister, but it is important because both Commissions point to weaknesses that are general and that may relate to different crises, not only those that the Commission has put down to investigate. That's why learning is so important. It starts with admitting errors. I wonder why the Prime Minister will not admit that parts of the criticism of the Gjørv Commission also came, still found in the points of the Korona Commission. Is it because one is concerned that the debate should be about the post-pandemic handling and not work before?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e741	First of all, I guess we said very early, from March last year, that we should have a better stockpile and had a different strategy related to infectious diseases. It has been to open doors, and we can repeat that, but it does not sound as if the representative is willing to hear that we have said that we agree. We agree that we should have thought differently and done otherwise. On the issue of intensive capacity, we have followed up the assessment of the potential for aggregation provided in the Single European Act 2012–2013. What we've done in the last year is to make sure that we have more people who are short-term trained to help in an intensive care unit. It is also stated in the big message, if I do not remember faults, that it is not possible to imagine that you should have the capacity to have full intensive treatment for a large inflow immediately, and therefore you must have the opportunity to lift the standby. We've also done that this year, but we've chosen to say that we need better intensive capacity in the future, as a lesson from this, and then we'll increase it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e748	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e753	I agree with much of what the Prime Minister now said, although there was no answer to the question, necessarily. I must also admit that for the past few weeks I have thought that I believe Prime Minister Solberg had been better off admitting that preparedness is more complicated and more demanding than what she herself said when she was opposition leader before 2013. In 2013, she promised more coordination and governance. However, in a sector such as the emergency sector, where preparedness, stability and clear responsibilities are important, this government has had a very high consumption of emergency officers. Prime Minister Solberg launched a security element at the Prime Minister's office that was quickly phased out. The government has had eight different Ministers of Justice, two Ministers of Public Health and one Minister of Emergency. The last two ministerial posts were also phased out. This is fragmentation, not coordination and coordination. The question is: In view of the last eight years, is there a form of government that the Prime Minister will recommend that any new government for the autumn follow?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e760	For quite natural reasons, I would have liked to have had less replacement of justice ministers. There are several reasons why several Ministers of Justice have left, which, of course, have not been desirable. I would have wanted fewer of them. I also think that is an important part of the continuity. This does not mean that we have not had both coordination and governance, but that means that we have not been good enough in all areas. I hear repeatedly that we do not have a security element in the Prime Minister's office. I have black quite many times in Stortingen about this. We've changed the government's security committee, so that we have a firm and more permanent secretariat that works around it. We have a State Secretary who is not only responsible for the individual departments but also responsible for the cross-border preparedness of these issues. So we've been strengthened in the Prime Minister's office on these issues, but it's based on the responsibilities that we have between each department's sectoral responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e767	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e781	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e786	The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Per Espen Stoknes to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Question 4, from the representative of Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Justice and Security, has been withdrawn. Question 5 by Mr Arild Grande to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs has been withdrawn. Question 15, from the representative Jorod Asphjell to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e800	This question, from Per Espen Stoknes to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e805	‘U.S. President Joe Biden was elected on an offensive climate programme, including a proposal for a global moratorium on oil exploration in the Arctic. But in an opinion to the NTB on 22 April, Prime Minister Erna Solberg said that ‘we have no plans to change our oil policy because of this’. The opinion came on the same day that Biden organised a summit to speed up international climate cooperation. Is it so to understand that Norway will counter any formal initiative from the United States to a global moratorium on oil drilling in the Arctic?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e812	Norway has a long and good tradition of knowledge-based management of our marine areas, and by June last year the Stortinget established a comprehensive framework for marine activities by adopting up-to-date management plans for all our marine areas. It is such an approach that has made it possible to operate safely and safely in all of our marine areas where we currently allow that type of activity, and these main lines have been and are widely agreed on policy here in the Storting. It is natural conditions on the ground that have and should have an impact on the commercial activities that are sound in a marine environment. For example, the Gulf Stream does: that in the Norwegian part of the Barents Sea there are completely different natural and climatic conditions from those in sea areas corresponding to far north in other countries, including the United States. In this way, Norway is different from most other Arctic countries. About 9 pst. of our population lives in the Arctic. We have business, activity and open seas. We have a completely different situation, and the conditions in the southern part of the Barents Sea are more similar to those in the other Norwegian sea areas than for example. the sea areas corresponding to the far north of the United States. Nationally, President Biden came as early as 20 January of this year with a so-called ‘executive order’ which carried out a temporary moratorium on oil and gas in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska. Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is a large protection area on North Slope in Alaska, bordering Canada. There has been a drag fight to open parts of the protection area for oil and gas activities for decades. President Trump initiated an opening process, and it is then expected that President Biden will reverse this, albeit temporarily. While the Southern Barents Sea is open all year long, the northern part is covered by sea ice parts of the year. Here, in the management plans, a limit is set for petroleum activities where sea ice occurs more than 15 pst. of the time in April. Norway is the only country in the Arctic that has set such a limit today. In the southern part of the Barents Sea, petroleum has been operating for 40 years. It's in this period drilled over 150 wells and it's built out fields in a safe way. Norway appreciates the good dialogue we have with the United States on both energy and climate, and we view the United States as a close and good partner for cooperation and dialogue. At the same time, the Stortinget decides where to operate petroleum in Norway, as the Stortinget did at the opening of the Barents Sea south-east in 2013, and when they took a position on the Norwegian sea area management plan before the summer of last year. Norway has a good tradition that it is our elected representatives who make decisions based on the strongest possible knowledge acquisition, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e831	I thank you for the answer from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I notice that she describes the long tradition that Norway has, but when an American president went to the elections on a program for a global moratorium against oil drilling in the Arctic, this is actually historic. An enormously joyful climate policy change is within reach. For once Norway has power, because we are a major force in the Arctic, and it is obvious that the signals from the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister can influence the Biden administration when they assess how they are going to propose this. What kind of consequences does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think it will have for Biden's procedure and the possibility to realise an oil moratorium in the Arctic if Norway says no in advance?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e838	First of all, this proposal must be promoted. For the time being, there is a hypothetical problem, and as I was in my post, this is something that has been done nationally in the United States by the Biden side in this round. Of course, we cannot change Norwegian energy policy or the management of Norwegian sea areas based on a thoughtful or possible future issue, but if an invitation from the United States or others to dialogue on the role of the northern regions in addressing global sustainability challenges, we will, of course, take part in that dialogue, both bilaterally, multilaterally and of course also among the coastal states of the Arctic Council. As I said, it is too early to say anything about this yet, because there is no proposal. We have a very good dialogue with the United States on energy and climate issues, and the Prime Minister was one of the 40 Heads of State who participated in the Biden climate summit this April. I would also like to mention that this is also not a problem the Americans have raised with us, that this should be something that is imminent to propose by the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e845	This is not the first time Norway and the Norwegian oil industry are working shoulder to shoulder to brake and stop important international environmental initiatives in the Arctic. A proposal from strong forces in the EU to stop oil exploration in the Arctic was voted down by hardly a majority in the European Parliament a few years ago following a strong lobbying campaign in which Norwegian authorities openly countered the proposal with the oil industry. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is therefore: is it the case that Norwegian authorities and diplomats in the United States are now working to combat a announced proposal for a global moratorium on oil exploration in the Arctic?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e852	As I said, this is not a proposal that is on the table of the Americans. We have good dialogue with the Americans, and this has not been brought up with us by the American team. It is important to stress, as I was in my first answer, that it is the Stortinget that lays the framework for Norwegian petroleum policy. It's a broad majority for here in the house. Then I recognise and respect that the Greens have a different view than the majority of the Greens. It's a very honest thing. But we are following up the broad majority in the Storting, and that is also in line with the spatial framework of the Stortinget Management Plan in the summer of 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e862	‘In Norwegian school, it is common for youth politicians, stakeholder organisations and businesses to visit schools and be part of the educational system. On 24 April we could read in our country that the Norwegian oil and gas industry organisation has met more than 5,000 students since 2019. This is the end of the Socialist Left Party, and they want to ban the oil industry from meeting students at school. What does the Council of State think about the proposal of the Socialist Left Party, and is this something the government will also consider?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e869	The Norwegian School shall be a window against social life and working life for the students. At school, students will learn about different professions and education, learn about the environment and sustainable development — and they will also learn to think critically and see different aspects of a case. At school, students will develop the ability to ask questions, be stimulated to curiosity and ask questions about adopted truths. We live in a society today where children and young people are influenced by many different teams. At school, students are given the opportunity to meet different votes within a safe framework. Critical thinking and ethical awareness are an important part of the school's broad social mandate and are clearly reflected in the overall curriculum. Students shall train to make ethical assessments, be explorers and weigh different considerations against each other. In this way, the school will teach students to make informed choices and to be able to justify their own opinions. I would also like to point out that sustainable development was introduced as a multidisciplinary theme in the new curricula used from the current school year. Through work on the theme, students shall develop competences that enable them to make responsible choices and act ethically and environmentally consciously. Inviteing different parts of society into education can help make training more motivating and understandable for students. Schools and teachers need to use good professional judgement in adapting training, and it is up to the school how education and other activities at school are put in place to ensure that students are taught the best possible way. It also applies to who they want to invite into the teaching. So it's up to the individual school and the individual learnt to decide. It is important for example: in order to adapt the training to the needs of students and to enable them to address current issues — as well as the possibility to be adapted, for example. local conditions. I trust that the teachers can provide the students with the framework needed to assess different aspects of a case and be critical of what they hear. I don't think it's right to have national legislation where we forbid single actors to enter school.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e882	I am pleased that the Council of State makes this statement that it will be up to the schools, because the oil industry is important to Norway as an energy nation and for our prosperity now, but will also be so for many decades to come. The industry is also a catalyst for other technology-intensive industries, employing around 200,000 people and will need to recruit many new people in the coming years. Then it means something about how we talk about the industry. Last week we read in Aftenbladet that Norway's most popular study is the new customs study at the University of Stavanger, which has approx. 2 000 applicants for 35 places, while for example only 21 first-time applicants to 20 study places in petroleum technology. The University of Stavanger gives the TV 2 series ‘Toll’ the credit for the high applicant numbers, because it draws a positive and exciting picture of the profession. Does the Council of State agree that continuing negative mention of the oil industry may affect applicants for higher education?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e891	I believe that the way we talk about different professions has an impact on the numbers of applicants – both that some professions are perceived to have a high status and a high reputation, and also the youth's own assessment of what the prospects are in different professions. I think that when it comes to the needs of different industries for labour, it is clear that as a nation, we have an important responsibility to ensure that there are good educational provision throughout the country that makes us train the professionals we need. Then I also think that the industries themselves have an important responsibility to contribute to recruitment into their industries. Now the oil industry has had very good recruitment over many years and may have contributed to other industries having worn out more. There is no doubt that competing for that competence is going to be a major challenge in the future, and I think it is an important job for the oil industry itself to secure the recruitment it needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e898	I think the answer from the Council of State is interesting, because now many political parties have had national meetings, and the review tone from Red, the Green Party, SV, the Christian People's Party and the Party of the Council of State, Left, has been that the oil represents a problem and that politicians have a responsibility to phase it out. Although those lots disagree with the setting of a specific closing date, at least all the lots agree that they should not be positive for new investments. I find that very regrettable, and it will have little use for the world's environment, but will be of great pleasure to the world's coal barons and oil sheiks. Nevertheless, in the light of what the Council of State has now said in today’s Question Time, there is a basis for hoping that the Council of State will be positive to go in the opposite direction to the SV, and rather encourage more schools to visit Norway’s main industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e905	I don't think I'm going to comment too much on the petroleum policy, as it's quite far beyond the fields for which I'm responsible as the Council of State. I think I'm going to deal with this issue, which is which actors we're going to get into school. I think that if we want the students to develop critical thinking ability, that they should be able to hear more pages of a case and make their own opinions, it is important that the school has room to invite the actors they think are relevant to get to that very thing. I think that in just such a setting as the school is, it may be relevant that a type of actor that Norwegian oil and gas can enter can contribute with their perspective. The same can, of course, also be true of environmental protection organisations or others that may represent a different view. Then the students get the opportunity to decide on some questions themselves, without necessarily having to three phases down their heads. I think that's the best thing we can do to develop good citizens who can also take on good jobs in the future, regardless of industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e915	‘In the approximately 120 offices of officers that were closed in 2017, 350 police posts disappeared. In addition, more than half of the remaining police stations and county authorities have lost their way through the so-called ‘near-police reform’, cf. SSB. How does the Council of State see that resources should be found each other in serious incidents when the government has ensured that they no longer exist and/or are built into much of the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e922	Assessment of police force and presence is based on capacity and competence at police district and geographical holding level. Today, entire police districts provide services in the municipalities. It has been a central step in police reform and is necessary, inter alia, in order to: as a result of changes in crime. Such an overall approach to the problem solution represents a change from the past, as the Länsmannskontoret was more responsible for local preparedness and investigation. These include: on the assistance the police can provide in the event of serious incidents, serious identity violations and digital crime. Today, there is a completely different interaction between different resources across the police district, which also explains why the quality of police work has increased and the police are able to handle more demanding issues equally and regardless of whether the event occurs in a large or small municipality. The capacity survey that has been carried out shows that even though there has been a reduction in the number of loner offices, the police are moving out on missions where people live. The study points out that the police spend as much time on urban and urban missions and that the police have the capacity to give priority to minor incidents. During 2020, geographical holdings have received a significantly higher share of the increase in police year-on-year than functional units. 76 pst. the increase in the year 2020 has led to the strengthening of the geographical holdings. In the budget for 2021, the police budget increased by about 578 million. kr. The increase is mainly aimed at strengthening police geographical holdings and will provide additional local presence and police force where people live and move. With regard to the SSB number on staffing at municipal level, I would like to stress that these statistics give a wrong picture of the police force in each municipality. The SSB is based on the fixed workplaces in which the employees are registered. Thus, it does not appear that employees registered at a permanent police station carry out their work in practice in several municipalities and are available for the whole district.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e935	I thank you for your answer. The red-green government presented a number of actions related to the 2013 terrorist report. One of the measures was to increase the number of IP3 teams from 800 to 1200 on a national basis. These are the policemen who have the most training in handling weapons and extra demanding situations. The Solberg government continued this ambition and wrote in its proposal to the 2017 government budget that one should reach the target figure of 1,200 before the end of that year – preparedness should be satisfactory throughout the country, and all police districts should have access to sufficient IP3-approved crews. Two years later, there was a counter-declaration in the state budget for 2019. The target was reduced from 1200 to 1000. What kind of emergency assessments are the reasons why the government has gone away from the ambition that there should be daily staff IP3 patrols available in all police districts, which is no longer possible when a decrease in the number from 1200 to 1000?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e942	I understand that the Center Party is very busy counting. I'm concerned about preparedness and total preparedness. Police preparedness is strengthened at all stages. What is important, and which is completely new this year, is that all response personnel in all police districts now have the means to travel and train at the new National Emergency Response Centre. This means that we get a better trained response staff who know the national response resources much, much better than the situation in the past. When we also know that the police have better equipment, more training and better ground for doing the job, it's not counting individuals who are the important thing, that's how the total preparedness is. It has thus been strengthened throughout the country and at all stages, thanks to a forceful effort related to police reform and to efforts, personnel, more money and new cars, boats and helicopters.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e949	The government has completed the improbable – simply centralizing helicopter preparedness for the police in northern Norway from Bardufoss to Rygge. Thus, North Norway has no helicopter that the police can use to fly in police or special forces to a building, or that can be used by snipers in the outermost sense. The report by the Gjørv Commission, to which the government often refers, but as it may seem that they have not read very well, says among other things. that in the event of future and wider terrorist attacks elsewhere in the country, helicopter support could be critical to the potential to delineate and mitigate the threat. Was the terrorist preparedness in North Norway better when there was a helicopter there that could be used to fly policemen for important missions, or that could be used by police snipers, or is the readiness better now when the police don't have such helicopter for standby north of central Austland?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e956	It's actually wrong. It's like we have police helicopters. We have made an agreement with civil helicopter authority and leased in helicopter access to Tromsø. In addition, the Centre Party is notoriously concerned with the geographical location of our helicopters. The police have agreed with the Coast Guard and can get assistance from the Defense Department, and we have new police helicopters associated with the new Emergency Response Centre, which has a much longer reach, can travel much longer, carry heavier weights and do a much better job. So, yes, preparedness across the country is significantly strengthened under this government, both in terms of changed organisation, i.e. police reform, and in terms of more people, better tools, better resources and more practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e974	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e988	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e996	«From 2013 to 2019, 14 municipalities in Hedmark lost state jobs, according to an overview from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. Nord-Odal has lost 42 jobs, Stalls 30, Våler 28, Eidskog 22, Åmot 20, Alvdal 9, Folldal 7, Løten 14, Rendalen 8, Sør-Odal 6, Tolga 5, Åsnes 3, Ringsaker 2 and Os 1. At the same time, the population decline in Hedmark and Uppland has been at its strongest since 1995, and the population has been centralized to the largest municipalities. Does the Council of State consider that the centralisation of jobs by the government is good district policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1003	The government does not pursue a district policy of centralisation as a goal. On the contrary, we want to counter centralisation, while working to improve the accessibility of services for citizens and to make people more aware of everyday life. Digitalisation contributes to the decentralisation of services. Where you had to go to an office before, get away from work and stand in line, you can get a few keys to solve it at home from the PC. The government is committed to facilitating development and growth throughout Norway. We want there to be competence jobs across the country and that there should be a good regional distribution of government jobs. Throughout our period, the government has been pursuing an active localisation policy. There are about 1 240 jobs newly created or moved out of the Oslo area between 2013 and 2020. We have e.g. added Norwegian health archive to Tynset, with about 60 government jobs. Soon, the Health Data Service must be moved to Tynset. There are also some positions in Trondheim, which are currently located in Bergen, Oslo and Trondheim. The general rule of government localisation policy is that new state activities should be established outside Oslo and central municipalities in the Oslo area. In practice, this means that state jobs and services are often located in medium-sized cities. In 2019, the government strengthened the guidelines for the location of state jobs. Attention shall be paid to localisation in regional centres where establishments have the highest potential to contribute to the local supply of jobs. Strengthening small cities and agglomerations is important in order to create a regional centre of gravity that balances the attractiveness of large cities. The small agglomerations will also contribute to the surrounding and the surrounding districts. The Government is committed to providing state jobs and state agencies with the best possible services, knowledge-based services. Digitalisation gives, as I said, new opportunities for the organization of businesses. This means that the changes implemented in the public sector provide better services, better response and more efficient use of resources. In parallel with this, we are working to ensure that efficiency improvements do not have adverse consequences for individual areas. That's exactly why we work so actively with the localisation policy. The weak population development in the Inland region is mainly due to, as in the rest of the country, birth losses combined with low labour migration, and birth losses and low labour migration from the EEA countries are also seen as a trend in other parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1020	The district minister begins by claiming that the government is working to counter centralisation. The centre party disagrees with that description. On the contrary, we have seen a government that has systematically centralised everything from police to traffic stations, tax offices and many other jobs away from the smallest municipalities in particular. The police represent an area where there has been a massive centralization. On 5 October 2018, Stortinget adopted the following: ‘The government is asking for a real strengthening of the offices of local officials that remain after the implementation of the police reform.’ Nevertheless, we see in e.g. Hedmark that Stage has now gone from fifteen policemen to one, Koppang has gone from six employees to three, and Rena has gone from six employees to two. How is there a real strengthening of the cannon offices at Stange, Koppang and Rena?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1032	It's a little funny that the representative and the Central Party are also so busy stressing that they are countering centralization. Because where the Center Party has the opportunity to do something, namely, in the counties and county councils, when they're in power, you do the same thing. In fact, there's almost a stronger centralization in the states where the Center Party sits and rules, than where the state rules. In Finland we see that the number of jobs is reduced in the smallest municipalities with almost 50 pst. from 2013 until 2020. At the same time, we see that the increase in the most central municipalities is over 50 pst. during the same period. This is a centralization chosen by the Center Party. I'm sure that's a good reason, because you can see that it's better for the people. As far as the police are concerned, I record that we have received 150 more posts in 2020 than we had in 2013. It is not the police office that is the most important thing; it is to have the police out there and the opportunity to solve and help with crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1041	I asked how this reduction in the number of employees was a real strengthening of the three specific loner offices, but the Council of State chose to spend a minute talking about the Central Party instead. Then I'll ask you something else. Yesterday, the board of directors of the Inland Hospital decided that they would have a new main hospital in Moelv, and they would drop the emergency function at Elverum Hospital. That decision shall be forwarded to the Board of Health South-East, and finally it shall be the Right of Government which shall decide what shall happen to the hospital in Elverum. The centre party believes it would be a tragedy for the whole region if we were not to have an emergency hospital in Elverum. It must exist in order to ensure both jobs and safety and preparedness for the inhabitants of the whole of the Baltic Valley. It's a service that can't be digitized. If you are injured or you are going to be born, you cannot go to a computer – then you have to go to a hospital. Does the Minister for Digitalisation and Districts think it is good for the region in the Østerdalen if the emergency function at the hospital in Elverum disappears?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1052	This is, of course, a decision that the Minister of Health will make at some point, and that is why it is becoming inexorable for me to comment on this in Stortinget today. I understand that it is problematic for the Center Party that I spend my time reminding myself that the Center Party itself is conducting a centralization in which they are in power and political leadership. I understand that it is unpleasant to be reminded of it, all the time the centre party is most concerned with criticising the state for centralizing. But it's interesting to see that the Center Party also sees that it's more important to make good deals and increase the availability of citizens rather than to hold on to offices and old structures. When we also see that the growth in the number of government jobs increased in public administration and not in police and nurses under the Center Party, it was natural for me to comment on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1064	«From 2013 to 2019, Oppland lost 269 State jobs. When the workplaces are moved, people have to move after. The population census of the SSB for 2020 concludes that Uppland and Hedmark have had the largest population decline since 1995. Upland has most national parks in the country, and in some municipalities is 80 pst. of the areas protected. Centres of competence have been established which have tasks related to the protection areas. Will the Council of State ensure that government tasks and jobs are transferred from the Directorate and the State administrator to these areas?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1071	The government has offered municipalities to assume administrative responsibility for all minor areas of protection. Municipalities are continuously offered the opportunity to become administrative authorities when new areas of protection are created. National parks and other major protection areas are managed by national park and protection area administrations composed of local politicians. Some time ago I visited Røros. Here they have recently co-located the County Repurchase Department, National Park Managers, State Nature Management and State Forest. This gives strong and exciting professional environments, which make Røros a more attractive labour market, and which can also help others, not only government jobs, but also private sector jobs, to relate to these strong professional environments. In my reply to the representative, Enger Mehl, I presented the government's localisation policy, but I can add that in 2020, the government started four pilot projects with the State House around Norway. The aim of doing so is for small and medium-sized departments of state agencies to cooperate more closely with each other and create larger professional environments in smaller areas around the district to attract additional jobs and environments of competence. This is a cooperation between state agencies, host municipalities, county councils and state administrators in which we have great faith. Rather than being scattered around the country with state jobs in small trade unions, there is a need for a pool of skills, and colleagues too, for a good work community. Digital solutions allow for work tasks to be carried out from a place other than the physical office of the employer. The government wants to open up more opportunities for employees in state enterprises to work from all over the country. It provides greater flexibility in the state labour market and helps maintain and strengthen professional skills in the districts. It may also be a potential for remote workplaces that we now see business as providing, but which the state is also providing – we see that the Loan Fund now publishes jobs with the whole of Norway as a place of work – will mean growth in jobs in districts. Then it's also interesting to see how we can facilitate office communities in existing premises, and how we can lift up and strengthen the business environments and knowledge parks around the country, so that more people who have the opportunity and want to move into the district can take their jobs from the big cities and move to smaller places. Local and county authorities can play an important role in identifying and using local infrastructure for local work communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1082	Thanks for the answer. I see that it is largely open up for work to be moved out of work, and there are described environments in both county, municipality and country. Then I'll try to clarify it a little bit. I will list some of the tasks that the Department of Rural and Outdoor Affairs has today, in the Protection Areas Section, and it is under the Directorate for the Environment: work to improve the status of protection areas, including: through restoration measures responsibility for the training of local national park and protection area managers and administrators work on visitor management in protected areas and the management and development of the mark for protected areas in Norway; working with national park villages and municipalities work on increasing value creation, with nature and protected areas as a resource responsibility for ensuring a good knowledge base and developing professional systems and digital tools in our area of responsibility As I know, there are 17 people working in the Land and Outdoors Department, the Protection Areas Section. Does the district minister think these are tasks that can be moved out?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1108	I am concerned that state jobs should be moved out of the Oslo area to contribute to competence jobs around the districts. That's important, and that's why I'm glad we've moved out a lot, and that we still have an active localization policy. I see that there are some state jobs that both the state and the county municipalities, where the centre party sits and governs, want to make changes related to. I also want to mention that development and growth in District Norway are also about jobs in the private sector. It looks almost like if the state doesn't go in, if we don't establish state jobs, then there's almost no life in the districts. That's not the situation out there. We see that activity, growth and development are largely linked to creating jobs in the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1115	I agree. Private business development is particularly important. I want to be even more concrete and use the Brain environment as an example. They have visited many ministers, including the Prime Minister, and possibly this minister as well. Today's competence environment consists of Norsk Villreinsenter Nord. They have four employees and have a national guidance task in the field of villa cleaning management. At the same time, they have built up an audience offer that local tourism businesses use, including the following: Point of view The snow heat. It is an administrative hub for the Dovrefjell-Sunndalsfjella National Park, Rondane National Park and Dovre National Park, with four administrators. The state's natural view, SNO, has its office there. It's a common information agent. It's an office for mountain guides around the plateau, in both Dovre and Folldal. There is also a pilgrimage center, and there are many others, guides and such, associated with this. In addition, NTNU is an active user. Could this be a competence area where state jobs are moved out and can be given responsibility for local, regional and national tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1124	I am very pleased that this example is being drawn out, because it is precisely because the need to work together in dense environments of competence comes from the environments themselves because you see that there are so many synergies to extract from it, that you create these communities across and get synergies out of it. That's very good, and I want to see more of that. I have visited the centre, I have walked as a pilgrim through the area and visited the centre, and it is very good to see that you do this locally, even without the state deciding it. I think it's a positive thing, but I want to see more of that both state and county councils and municipalities come together to establish more such environments of competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1132	‘The Council of State has previously referred to the Government’s ‘transformable district effort’. Nordland is the county that has lost most state jobs in municipalities with the lowest centrality under this government. The whole 298 jobs are gone where they are most needed. One municipality in centrality class 3 has been given 306 State jobs. Does the Council of State consider the move of State jobs to lower-central-class municipalities to be an effective means of growth and will it be good district policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1139	The question from the representative is similar to a question I received from the centre party earlier today. It is about state jobs, small municipalities, tools for growth and good district policies. Since I just presented the government's localisation policy in my previous response, I would like to confine myself to what I think is good district policy and effective means of growth. Although government jobs can be an important contribution to creating balanced labour markets, which I had in the past, government jobs do not generate growth. It's the business that stands for it. Norway is a country with a large resource base and many exciting opportunities for growth and development. The reason people live in the whole country is because they have a job to do. That is why we give priority to good business conditions. District policy is about action in a number of policy areas. We will continue our efforts on tax relief, on research and innovation, to create jobs in North Norway. We will focus on an active state localisation policy and better local economy. In the new National Transport Plan, we will continue the government's historic development of transport in North Norway. We're betting billions on investment into highways and county roads. We build broadband in the districts as never before. Good transport and broadband solutions are essential to ensure viable districts. The Nordic region receives large investments through NTP for both road, rail, coast and aviation. Improvements to E6 and E10 will result in significant reductions in travel time and increased road safety. We also encourage everyone to be able to take education, regardless of where you live and what your life situation is. In the summer we're going to put forward a strategy for decentralised and flexible education. All of these are important components of what I think is a good district policy and good means of growth. The government is pursuing a future-oriented district policy to convert the Norwegian economy for new jobs. Now we are further developing district policy, and we are going to present it before the summer. In the case of Northern Ireland, we see that the county has centralized a lot. The municipality of Nordland has reduced the number of jobs in the smallest municipalities by more than 15 pst. between 2013 and 2020. The only municipality with an increase in county employment in the Nordic region is Bodø. The representative knows the county municipality well, and where the centre party operates the county municipality, operates centralisation, moves jobs from smaller municipalities around the county and into Bodø, there is a reason for that, and the reason I see it is that they believe it is to provide better services, which may be more cost-effective, but also better quality to their inhabitants. That's the goal for us politicians. It's not offices, systems and structures, it's good services for our residents.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1152	Instead of responding to the relationship between state employment and district policy, which was really the question, the Council of State again chooses to attack the county councils, and that is quite fine. I can answer for Nordland. It has been used, for example: Very much energy and resources to preserve the 16 secondary schools and the 28 places of study that we have spread across the county. Municipal posts with flexible places of work and jobs with a free place of work within the county are now published. The Road Administration has now moved far more jobs out of Bodø than when the Swedish Road Administration was responsible. For example, there is no new state building in Bodø because it is wanted to move out functions. To the question that I want to ask: What does the Council of State think it does for a municipality like Beiarn when Helfo lays down five state jobs – not many, but important for Beiarn? Or Leirfjord, who lost 20 when the Child Protection Institute was laid down?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1161	I have to make it clear: it was not my intention at all to criticize the county council. On the contrary, I defend what the county council does, because the county council centralizes in Northernland. I think the Central Party and the Workers' Party in the Nordic countries centralise state jobs because they believe that it provides a better offer to their inhabitants. Then it is a little difficult for me to stand here and answer for every state job that has been laid down in different municipalities throughout Norway in different sectors for which other government councils are responsible. I hope the Center Party can understand that. My starting point is that we should continue to have an active localisation policy. We should actively facilitate the establishment and maximising of jobs in the private sector in the districts. But when we see that society is changing, services are changing, people don't have to travel miles to visit an office when they can press a key in the living room and get the service fixed, we can't maintain offices just to maintain the office.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1168	To answer my own question, I would say that government jobs are significantly more important community-builders in district municipalities than in large urban municipalities. It helps the districts little to move from Oslo to Trondheim. I believe it is an instrument that the government could have used if there was a real desire for growth and housing across the country, and I very much agree with the rapporteur in Beiarn, who said after the Helfo closure: ‘So much so that digitisation could provide jobs in the districts. The state says one, and does something else. This is really sad.» Finally, what does the Council of State think about UDI now choosing to drop the asylum reception in Salangen, the only one with the professional competence of single minors, to move to the central East? How does the government in the areas of digitalisation and district policy succeed when the National Communications Authority is also moving from the village to the city, from Lødingen to Tromsø?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1175	There were several questions here, but until the last representative took up, about the move of Nkom and the one job from Lødningen, that's not settled yet. There is a dialogue between the ministry and Nkom about the process, so the final decision is not taken. That representative and I agree is that government competence jobs are important in District Norway, and therefore it is good that government and big business want government jobs to be established outside Oslo. That line is stuck. So I think it's very happy when we just got a message that North Norway is among the regions of Europe with the lowest unemployment in 2020. This suggests that here are the jobs in the private sector that provide us with well-being, which gives us tax revenue, and I could have wished that we had talked a little bit more about it than just that the state should be the only answer to all the problems in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1188	‘Hordaland has had an increase in government employment of 2,920 between 2013 and 2019. But the increase in the municipality of Bergen has been 3,165, so that it has been a real decline in the districts. Voss municipality has had a decrease of 90 workplaces and Ulvik municipality has a decrease of 20 workplaces. It's also centralized in the police. In Odda, according to the SSB, 31 had been added in 2016, while 27 had been added in 2020. What does the government do to reverse the centralisation trend and secure the districts of Hordaland state services and jobs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1195	I thank you for the question. I'm glad to be allowed to answer these questions, because I have a great commitment to it. I saw that the representative also sat in the room while I answered the previous questions from the Central Party, where I explained the government's localization policy, so I have already answered some of the question. As I commented on in the reply to the representative Constantaune, not all statistical changes are real changes in the number of jobs. Changes in organisational form may affect the statistics, and this applies to Voss, the example taken by the representative. Under 50 persons employed are linked to the establishment of the State limited liability company Track drift AS, which is thus registered as publicly owned enterprises. Both centralisation and urbanisation are international trends that characterise housing and living conditions worldwide. Norway is in a special class of maintaining living communities throughout the country. It should be possible to live a good life wherever you live in Norway. Here I want to promote the role of municipalities in facilitating services and jobs. Municipalities can play an active role in creating local ideas, by being planning authorities and facilitating business development. Locally anchored processes that integrate food, land and society development are important for the overall development of the community. Attractive sites and active businesses are closely linked and interacting with each other. The width of the local labour market affects migration, while well-being and good services make people become. Since the representative mentions the police, I would like to mention that the police reform ensures an operational, visible and accessible police force with the capacity to prevent, investigate and prosecute criminal acts and thus provide citizens with greater security. The reform has provided greater professional environments and more robust police districts and operational centres. All police districts have been strengthened and we will further strengthen staffing in the districts in the years to come. Then to the West. I see that in Western County there is a reduction in the number of jobs in the smallest municipalities by almost 30 pst. towards 2020. The only municipality with an increase in municipal employment in the West is Bergen. Once again, I want to defend what the Central Party is doing in the West, because I have a genuine belief and conviction that the state politicians there do not make these assessments on the grounds that they want to put down government jobs in the smallest district municipalities in the West, but they move them to Bergen because it provides a better service to the inhabitants, with more quality, more cost-effective and with more availability.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1210	I agree that local jobs in other businesses are important, but then it is important that the country organises. I shall take a local example with the traffic station at Voss. In the past, the local manager managed the resources as needed and could use the people in several areas. It was divided into divisions where they were in different booths. Then they start talking about closure. There was a big discussion. This is a hidden closure, because they still have half the operation, they still have run-up, but they have picked away the hours and the people locally, so that the business doesn't have access to those services. These services cannot be performed digitally. They depend on getting them done locally. Before it happened, it was quick to get an hour, either to approve a driver's license or other things or to have a run-up. Today it's almost impossible because they've created an insecurity that makes people stop, and then they haven't added new people to the station. Is it not a typical example of how not to strengthen local business?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1215	I fully agree with the representative that the state has a great responsibility to facilitate business so that it is easy to operate and easy to set up new jobs. Therefore, it is important that when the various sectors, departments and directorates make changes, it is not only necessary to see what this has consequences for their sector. It must be seen in full, what consequences it has for the region and not least for industry, which the representative has to face. I am pleased that the representative emphasises the importance of enabling us, as politicians, to get the jobs that come in the private sector, which provide revenue and finance our well-being, to get as simple a daily life as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1220	But that's exactly what's the point, that here is trying to add up to it, and after a while it turns out that no, there's statistics that we don't need those resources there. Today, the system in the Road Safety Authority is such that one must enter and book hours. As long as the hours aren't open and one doesn't get to book hours, it looks like there's no activity in place. You will need the services, but they will not be able to meet their needs. They have to travel a long way to cover those services, and it's about having an active environment. At Voss, we had 14 Helfo jobs, one of the better departments in the country. However, when the principle is that centralisation is the solution, they were also laid down and moved away, in the place of building up the local environment that was there, with knowledge jobs that were important for the community. The total of this, with so many things, is what makes frustration big in the countryside.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1227	I understand that, but we see that both the Right in Government and the Center Party in management in very many states choose to centralize because they are put there as politicians to give the best possible service to the inhabitants and not to preserve offices. I agree that digitalisation and technology do not help to solve everything online, on the contrary. But it frees up capacity so that with the warm hands, the nurses, or if it's the police, we can use the resources there, on those who need it the most, in the operational positions out there, for our residents. Then anything else that can be solved digitally can be solved digitally. But again – you have to see this in a larger context, what it means to the region and to the business community. Therefore, it is important to have a coordinating role to take into account regional policy considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1235	‘It is a challenge to provide enough people for a new MPA environment at Evenes, both support staff, technicians and pilots. The consequence of the government’s 2016 decision to shut down Andeya was a crash of an MPA environment that was built up over several decades. Collecting maritime surveillance and QRA at Evenes, probably one of Right's centralizations, has negative consequences like other government centralization decisions. How will the Council of State ensure that the centralisation at Evenes does not lead to a weak Norwegian operational capability for maritime surveillance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1242	I'm not going to spend a very long time, but we might have to look at the concept of centralization, like the Center Party is using it now. In Andenes, there are 2,500 inhabitants. In the municipality of Evenene, there are 1,350 inhabitants. Some jobs to Evenes I find difficult to see can be characterised as centralisation, at least. But the question to the representative Navarsete about competence in Air Force and on our bases is very good, independent of populist rhetoric. We're doing a part to build the environment of expertise in defence in many ways. We have a education reform, we have a new military system. For Air Force, it is also important that we now have a large increase in the number of posts. We're trying to produce as many pilots as possible. We work closely with the county councils in the field of vocational training, because in the past, the defense stood for much of the education itself, and when the practice was over, the defence with civil capabilities generally competed for these peoples. We are now in cooperation with the County Councils of Troms and Finnmark, Nordland, Trøndelag and also with aviation, the airlines, about the aviation engineering line, so that we can provide good estimates of the need in the future. This has led us now to probably increase the number of lines in these fields, so that we have more to choose from when the need arises in the future. Evens was selected on the basis of an overall assessment of operational and economic conditions. Operation of both monitoring and QRA capacity from Evenes is seen as a very good measure. There's a bunch of bases built there, we're making homes available for those who're going to be hired on the base. We work closely with Harstad and Narvik to make a labour market region visible, which I think will make it easier to recruit people to do the job at Evenes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1251	In this case, I am talking about centralisation of the services that are natural. An article in NRK Nordland found that Narvik City is a few miles out of the absolute limit of how far away the defense can go from the base of Evenes. At that time, a full KVU1 and KVU2 process was not done, but one at least got the impression that Narvik would benefit from this move. Why was this distance, which has now emerged, not discussed in the decision-making framework, and can the Council of State guarantee that we do not get any more surprises that have personnel and cost implications in the development of Evenes?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1258	With regard to the labour market region, which also includes Narvik, there is one thing. First of all, there is a derogation, so that Narvik is included. Then I have said that we should have a strategy that thinks of the labour market region and the possibilities of working as a couple at Evenes – the other one may be at the University of Narvik or at the hospitals in Narvik or Harstad. We've taken care of it. Now we are working on a strategy to see the labour market region as a whole, so that it is more attractive to live in the region and become more attractive to work at Evenes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1263	It is important that the Ministry fulfils all the distribution requirements that exist. In the KS1 report for hangar position at Evenes Air Station, which was modified due to a lack of distribution, it was found that MPA, maritime patrol aircraft, on Evenes, was not provided with a full KVU and KS process. In such a process, the aspect of adding, both recruitment and keeping people, should be an important theme. We now see it both in the helicopter environment at Bardufoss, in the MPA environment on Andøya and after a while on Evenes that the defense has a big problem with both keeping on adding and recruiting. Why was this not part of the decision-making basis of the Storting? It could have been important to have discussed in the context in which the matter was.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1270	We have used the investigation models imposed on us by Stortinget and the Ministry of Finance, depending on the size of the investment projects. It is not that this has not been emphasised. Personnel have been given attention both in the case of Evens, in the case of the further activity of the Andes, and in the case of new activity, civil activity, through the conversion work on the Andes to identify how much of the staff there might think of doing something else. Even with regard to the helicopter capacity at Bardufoss, we have worked with staff to ensure that we have enough personnel. The job against the county council, the vocational training, is part of that picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1280	‘In its report of 21 April 2018, the post-Fregatthavari accident Commission found that the accident could have been avoided, but the crew had not been given ‘good enough preconditions to deal with the scenario they were facing in the night of the accident’. Too little time and resources had been set aside to practice complex accident situations. In addition to the loss of defence, the financial costs after the accident amount to several billion kroner. What assessments do the Council of State make of responsibilities and consequences after the frigate legacy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1287	First, I want to thank you for a good, accurate and well-trained question. This is a serious matter. I'm still very happy that we can say that there was no loss of accident night in life. This means that the Marine Defense acted in line with accident management and prioritized life and health. I would then like to commend the Commission for the research they have done, and thank you for two very good and concrete reports. I've always been concerned that we're going to use the state institutions we have to do this work so that we're absolutely sure that we're going to uncover everything that's going to be revealed in this. It's important. Firstly, I have the constitutional responsibility for the activities of the defence, and secondly, it is important that we ensure that values are respected, but also that we take care of personnel in the future. My impression is that the reports from the Hawaiian Commission, both number one and two, are very good. The most serious thing we see there is that they describe a defence sector that has no ability to learn from mistakes. There is something both I and the head of defense are clear and clear about getting caught up in. Then I have to point out that the defence and defence equipment have continuously taken on board the relationships that have emerged in the various reports and in the review that have been made after the accident. There are some recommendations in the report of the Havari Commission I would like to make: Strengthening of the Maritime Defence Security Organisation is in place. Furthermore, the frigates were added to the berth in winter to remedy safety-critical technical conditions. It shows that the defence manages the safety recommendations in a good way. It was pointed out that training needs to be strengthened. Measures to strengthen training have already been put in place and it has improved. In addition, further measures are now being considered. The question of whether I have confidence in the management of the defense has been raised. Yes, I think they have shown that they have the ability to deal with the challenges that have been revealed. We continue to work with recommendations that are in the report now. One of them is whether this has been a cut of the goat and oatmeal, the supervisory authority versus other responsibility. We have now gone into it and cleaned it up, so there should be no suspicion of that either. The most serious questions now lie with the Riksadvokat, the court with regard to the accident, and I believe that, as a state of law, we should be careful to point that out. It's the courts that's going to look at the most serious cases, and there I'd like to await the Riksadvokat's statements before I comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1316	Of course, I agree with what the Council of State says about it being unusually nice and happy that life was not lost. I now find that the Council of State here in the staging room says that he takes the constitutional responsibility. In that way, this is good. And then he comes up with all the measures. Then we get to what is kind of the core of the matter. It is good that you have a learning ability in Defense, as the Council of State now says, but the accident happened, and then the question is, was the political pressure on the frigates to sail much more than they originally did, one of the reasons why this happened? And I want to ask the Council of State: did the Council of State and the Department know something, had they been informed by the Maritime Defense that they were in a marginal and perhaps in a dangerous situation with the crew and the training culture that they had before the accident happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1323	We are now also working on the Commission's interim report number two to provide answers to it. A part of what was surprising, what has alerted the media, was when, in its report number two, the Harvari Commission said that the ship was not shut off by evacuation, that the hatches were not scalded. We have been in there and checked, and there are also findings that have been made in the Defence reports earlier, and there are findings that are now being dealt with by the Maritime Defense in order to give a good answer to that. There may be some appropriate explanations. We have not sailed our frigates that straps and clothes can hold, and we have not been made aware that we were at critical level when it came to activity and crewing. There are things that have come up in the reports that have been delivered after the accident.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1330	As for the last, I would say it's nice that the Council of State is so honest about this, because then it's possible that we can get to the bottom of a culture that has brought us into this situation. It's very serious for all of us, and of course it's serious for the Council of State, which is constitutionally responsible. I want to say that what we have experienced here is an example of the fact that there is not enough communication between the department and – in this case – the maritime defence, that we have come into a very serious situation by losing a frigate and billions of dollars to the bottom and at the bottom of the sea, and that it is then so difficult to imagine: who is responsible for it? The Council of State has its responsibility. He now says that he has not been informed, and then I repeat exactly the question: What does the Council of State think that he did not know that the crew was not qualified enough to lead one of our frigates? What does he think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1337	In that question, there are implications that already in some ways attribute blame. I'm not willing to go into that, I'm not willing to comment until the lawyer comes up with his legal opinions on what's in that part. It has come to the conclusion that on the one hand you have good enough training, all the time something so serious happened and you managed to save everyone. Then there are questions about the use of personnel and the number of tasks that we are now considering. Parts of it we have compensated for by establishing additional crew, parts of it we have compensated for by inserting ‘Maud’ as a supply vessel. But when it comes to going in and saying explicitly that it was the fault or the errors that caused this to happen, I will wait to assess it until I have heard the conclusion of the Advocate General.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1349	‘The government of the day has implemented a number of centralisation reforms, including by coercion of municipalities and counties. Skedsmo, Sørum and Fet were forced together despite the results of referendums in all three municipalities. The government has said that the municipal reform will continue. In response to the signed 10 September 2019, the current municipal minister provided support to local right-wing politicians in Upper Rome who work for bundling. Does the Council of State consider that new municipal mergers should be carried out in Akershus during the next major period?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1356	The government is working to strengthen the conditions of local authorities in order to provide good and equivalent welfare services, to drive overall and sustainable social and economic development, to have a sustainable and robust economy and to strengthen its own local democracy. In many cases, larger municipalities will be the best solution to achieve this, and which is always the best starting point for building a new and larger municipality that the municipalities involved themselves want to merge. But I think we actually clarified this last week, the representative and I. Former Akershus County is a geographical area where the population is often interrelated across municipal borders and how many inhabitants travel daily across municipal boundaries for different purposes. In other words, it is a geographical area in which social development has flowed from the municipal boundaries. Earlier this year, I received a report from NORCE on challenges in areas of continuous urban settlement across the municipal borders. The main conclusion is that despite many well-functioning inter-municipal cooperation on different services, the administrative division of urban areas leads to competition between municipalities on residents and businesses and to time- and resource-intensive cooperation processes. The consequences include: urban sprawl and over-exploitation of land resources. The study provides a basis for claiming that the administrative division of urban areas hampers the functioning of local governments and the effectiveness of local government. In 2016, the technical recommendation of the then County of Oslo and Akershus was that this geographical area should consist of nine municipalities. I think it is both appropriate and sensible to have more aggregations here in the future. It could lead to more coherent and coordinated development in the region. However, it is up to local politicians in these municipalities to decide whether they want to start processes for bundling.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1367	I thank you for your answer. So now the municipalities in Akershus, like municipalities in other parts of Norway, have been through extensive processes in recent years to assess the issue of community mergers. Most municipalities have ended up wanting to continue as their own municipality. For example, all municipalities in Upper Rome have chosen to continue as their own municipality. That is what the people want. A poll taken by the community association showed that a large majority of Akershus want to remain as their own municipality. In Upper Rome, there was 72 pst. who replied that they wanted to remain as their own municipality, only 18 pst. said that aggregation could be relevant. Why does the Council of State think that, despite it, one should go on with further municipal mergers in Akershus?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1376	I am aware that there have been extensive processes. Some places have brought it forward, and others have not. I think that in many places this is also a question of a maturation process. We can see that, for example. North of Gudbrandsdalen, where one was also through a comprehensive process to clarify whether one should join forces, but where the Central Party rapporteurs have now found that it makes sense to see if one can do things differently, because it can provide better services to the inhabitants. I visited Bodø last autumn, and then the rapporteur could tell me that almost every week they were contacted by the municipalities around Bodø about Bodø, because they were unable to operate them themselves. Then I challenged her at the same time: wouldn't it make sense to merge the municipalities, and why did you say no in your time when we had the process? She said, well, this is also a maturation process. I think there's a lot of truth in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1383	There are no municipalities in Norway, nor under previous governments, who have been refused aggregation, if the municipalities involved wanted it. What is the big difference in the last period is that one has had a state-run process, in which one tries to coerce municipalities, and where it has also been coerced by the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Progress Party, against the clearly expressed will of the people. This has meant that many municipalities, for example in Akershus, have had to spend an enormous amount of resources on that process, rather than what is most important for the municipalities: providing good services to people in their own municipality. When the municipalities have said no, the people say no: Why does the Council of State think that a must nevertheless press for new municipal mergers in Akershus, instead of the municipalities being able to concentrate on providing good services to the inhabitants, in line with what the inhabitants themselves want?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1390	I am very pleased that the representative addresses the question of good services, because there is a very little interest in the debate on this; it is geography over function – and I think that is very unfortunate. The key question is: what kind of municipal structure is it that the municipalities can deliver on the duties and tasks they have? There are much more complex and specialised tasks that the municipalities have to do today than it was when the preferred municipal structure of the Centre saw the light of day, in the mid-1960s. A lot has happened. I have no intention of forcing the municipalities of the old Akershu County to join forces, but I have said that I believe the situation is about to mature, so that several municipalities will find that they want to join forces, because they see that it is for the benefit of the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1400	‘Since 2013, Norwegian municipalities have taken the neighbouring talk and run extensive processes related to municipal structure. Countless hours and heads have been used. In the February 21st address newspaper, the Council of State writes in response to the newspaper’s request for clearer state leadership in the municipal reform: “This is not the case during this major period.” This may indicate that the Council of State considers this to be relevant in the next period. Why does the Council of State not respect the choices made by citizens and elected representatives, for example, in Marks, Councils and Whales?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1407	The short answer is that I respect the choices that have been made, but since there would be a bit of a boring exchange between the representative and me, if I were to be careful, I would add something. I believe that the debate on municipal structure should be about the ability of municipalities to provide good services to citizens, to facilitate jobs and business, and to develop municipalities in line with citizens' expectations and future needs. Municipalities face major challenges in the coming years, regardless of which parties are in government at all times. We know that many municipalities are struggling with relocation, challenges in attracting the right skills, increasing expenditure in the health and care sector and high infrastructure needs. At the top of this, municipalities have an important role to play in achieving sustainability goals and addressing climate challenges. Norway is a long-term country, and municipalities have very different conditions for doing these tasks. Someone will do it perfectly. Others are already struggling. In a meeting with scattered municipalities in Finnmark last week, a councillor said the following: In this municipality, the health and social services consist of one person, and in the last five months it has been me. He put that word on a problem for many scattered municipalities. They have serious problems recruiting enough professionals and meeting the demands and expectations of the Stortinget and its inhabitants. 90 pst. of the most dispersed municipalities themselves say that they have challenges in attracting the right skills. 67 pst. companies say the same thing. The answer for many of these municipalities is extensive intermunicipal cooperation. Intermunicipal cooperation is very good, but at the same time this is a sign that the municipalities are unable to comply with the generalist principle, and there is a development that the Stortinget should take seriously. The municipal reform has not changed the basic structure of the municipality of Norway. There are still 120 municipalities with fewer than 3000 inhabitants, and half of the municipalities have fewer than 5000 inhabitants. At the same time, we also see challenges with fragmented municipal structure in more central municipalities where continuous urban areas are shared between several municipalities. This leads to less holistic planning and poorer solutions for the population. All this speaks for the fact that more municipalities are going to take the next talk in the years to come. I have already mentioned the municipalities north of Gudbrandsdalen, where local central party rapporteurs have already started. More people will see that you stand closer together than each other. I therefore believe that there will be much more municipal mergers in the next few years, and I think that makes sense. The best starting point for a community merger is that the municipalities themselves want it. The municipalities of Marker, Råde and Hyler decided almost five years ago that they want to continue as their own municipalities. It's a decision I respect. It may well remain this way in these municipalities. At the same time, I think many municipalities in Norway will assess their alternatives in the years to come, precisely because Norway has changed since today's municipal structure saw the light of day in the 1960s. These tasks are more and more complex and specialised. The representative's party prefers to look back at the future, but before is a time we never get back.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1426	I can promise the Council of State we'll look forward to it. We want the best possible services for the inhabitants, whether they live in large or small municipalities. The speech of the figures is quite clear, because citizens in small and medium-sized municipalities are above average satisfied with the services they receive. Then the Council of State creates a problem that municipalities choose to cooperate on services, and that they cannot then be called generalist municipalities. But it's like how the municipalities want to solve their services is not up to us in Stortinget, just as little as we do if right-hand-driven municipalities privatise their services. Skiptvedt, Hyler, Aremark, Rakkestad, Marker, Våler and not least the Right-Handled Council are municipalities that have a positive decision to be their own municipalities. Does the Council of State believe that the elected representatives of those municipalities have not understood the consequences and do not have the same conditions for assessing the future, the service provision and the economy as the Council of State has?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1433	I didn't say that either. But I believe, as I said, that more and more municipalities come to the realization that it is necessary to think again also about the municipal structure issue. This is particularly true in scattered municipalities where I believe the representative does not take on enough of the challenges the municipalities actually face when it comes to recruiting professionals in order to do the statutory tasks that the Stortinget has given them. It's a challenge I think we have to take seriously. I know that collecting impressions from all over the country is something the party leader of the representative is concerned about, but here I think you have to listen better to the actual challenges that municipalities have, and then you will also come to the conclusion that it is necessary to do something.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1438	I happen to have a background as rapporteur in one of the merged municipalities. In fact, it was a coercion, but I have never experienced it when I came from business and into the municipal sector, a sector that is as innovative and forward-looking as the municipal sector is. It was impressive to see how municipal staff from the councillor and to the assistant nurse were involved in the provision of services in a cost-effective way for the inhabitants. Margaret Hagerup, the party colleague of the Council of State, was out in Stavanger Aftenblad and said that the state must start drawing the map, and that we must use force. Can I conclude from the answers the Council of State has now given me here today, that the Right will not be forced, and will not go for a central city map to be drawn up in the next four years?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1445	Now the representative begins to repeat himself, not least his colleagues. I answered these questions in several rounds last week. If the representative asks what the answer is, he can go back and read the record. I fully agree that the local authority's ability to convert is impressive, not least in the pandemic we are currently in. At the same time, it is a fact that there are many municipalities in Norway that do not have municipal councils at a time when we are in a pandemic. Why haven't they? Well, because they can't recruit. We have a lack of nurses in many municipalities. Why? Well, because newly-trained nurses don't want to go to a community where the professional community consists of one, maybe two other newly-trained nurses. This is the reality of a lot of municipalities, and it's a reality that the Center Party doesn't take on at all, and that I think is a little bit surprising. So there's no answer to tracking from the Center Party about how we're going to make sure that Municipality-Norway is strengthened, and how we can provide for living communities across the country. It's just to look back at a time that's over. That's not the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1455	‘Section 27 of the Road Act provides that tolls may be used ‘for investments in fixed installations and installations for public transport by rail, including track and metro’. Railway development is expensive, and the government has no power to prioritize funds for agreed deployment purposes on the railway, and the objectives of goods on the road are more distant than ever. Will the Council of State consider using tolls from large traffic routes to finance railway development on the same route where there is a great need?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1462	Section 27 of the Veglova permits to collect tolls, and it appears that tolls can also be used for investments in railway public transport infrastructure, including trams and T-Bahn. This potential is currently useful for investment in urban areas for T-Bahn, urban railways and trams, but not for railways. Railway financing is seen as a state responsibility. Therefore, alternative use of tolls for investment in roads may be thought to be possible, in theory, to be used for route-wise railway investments in non-urban transport corridors. It opens road traffic laws. However, this will require this alternative use of tolls to provide the most transportable supply in the corridor by making it more profitable to bet on rail in front of road. The principle of utility is a central principle of toll financing, especially on the route projects, by making use of the project, and vice versa, of the people who benefit from the project to pay for it. This principle, in my opinion, will require compliance by means of the payment of tolls to be paid by drivers on a route for the development of the railway. Toll financing also requires local policy approval and decisions. This is a very central principle and will also have to be demanded in the case of possible toll financing for railway development, and I am uncertain whether there is a local willingness to pay that is large enough, whether this is something local politicians will consider as topical. I think that the level of tolls as laid down in the national transport plan that is now being dealt with here at Stortinget is adequate, and that we should take seriously that the toll burden for very many can be felt to be close to a pain limit. Therefore, I do not want to open up to demand additional tolls to finance railway development, even if this is theoretically possible on the basis of the legal basis. I think that development on the railway should be a state responsibility, and this is also a responsibility of the government. A new national transport plan for the period 2022 to 2033 provides for a stronger commitment to rail passenger and freight transport, and it is proposed to be close to 400 billion. kr just for this purpose for the next 12 years. Summary: it's right that the representative Arne Nävra points out here, it's a real possibility, but I'll stand for the principle that financing the railway is a state responsibility, and I also think we have shown our willingness to increase it. In my first budget, there was no doubt that the area I was giving priority to was just increasing railway development, yes, I even took down the roadways to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1477	I thank the Council of State for the answer. He refers to the principles that it is the State that has to pay for the railway, and that is to the point of order, and that is, of course, the agreement. But it's no different in principle for drivers to pay for better rail services, for example. in order to better fit on the roads, as is the case in cities, in urban growth agreements. The drivers actually benefit from it. The polluter-pays principle also means that an effort can be made for environmentally friendly transport, and the cars will in any case contribute to microplastic pollution, particulate matter and, not least, to seizure a lot of land. Couldn't imagine it could be relevant, for example. where there is a crying need for more rail, e.g. on routes in Eastfold, with Norwegian-Swedish cooperation by, for example: Swinesund, where we have a corridor with the road, and where there is a screaming need for railway, for example. the distance down to Gothenburg. Can't the Council of State think of any such distance?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1484	The representative Arne Nävra points to the open comparison with, for example, public transport and rail, and I also admit in this answer that yes, there are some common features here that would allow one to assess it. But I've landed that I don't think that's the right way to do it. Firstly, they have entered into urban growth agreements, and increasing the toll burden has given them local resistance. I'm not an opponent of tolls, but I'm concerned that we should have legitimacy behind the choices we make. I'm afraid that such a policy, when we know how cost-intensive it is with railway development, is not the way to go to join more railways, for us who want it. I think it will be felt as local, strong resistance, and I think we have to stand for the principle of local decisions on tolls, even if we do well to do so on the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1489	I thank you again for the answer. We should remember that there was an opinion poll in 2012 – a few years ago now – that showed that almost 40 pst. felt that this could be a good idea. This came up in connection with the last NTP for which the red-greens were responsible, it was inside, and it was about that it was also going to be assessed further, but then it became a government change. Then the question to the Council of State is, how are we going to be able to finance the railway? There's something that can make a government council sleepless. Is it only through ordinary budgets? That's the key question. Does the Council of State see that we can achieve greater efforts without new forms of funding at all? Is he considering a fee, e.g. on goods on the road on some routes, over long distances? Has he thought of earmarked air charges for the railway on the same routes? Is he thinking of government borrowings for major investments for future generations? These are just three-four ideas. Has he thought about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1496	The political plurality in Norway has in ten years more than triple the investment and use on the railways. That's very good. We have also discussed in this Chamber – and the representative Arne Nävra has been with us – for example Oslo–Stockholm, where we look at alternative ways of financing, and at least there is someone who says in the public vocabulary that it will be possible for them to do so. I also believe that we get more development environment, can help. But just that we now have a triple, that we're willing to use that kind of means forward, I think it's crucial to be happy with this. So I thought in principle that there won't be any big differences as to whether it's T-rail, public transport or rail, but as one who wants to bet on the railway, I don't think this is a tool that will give us the big promise. I also think it'll create a resistance to the railway, and that's the last thing I want.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1512	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1520	‘An annual health and well-being survey among Norwegian students shows that 45 pst. laboring mentally and over half is lonely. This is far more than before. The proportion of people who say they have severe mental distress has increased from 32 pst. in 2018 to 45 pst. in 2021. The proportion that they say they have suicidal thoughts is almost doubled. These are daunting numbers and can lead to great non-response. What concrete measures has the government taken to improve student well-being, and what does the government do to prevent non-response?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1527	Let me thank the representative of Fagerås for giving me the opportunity to answer questions about the student's well-being and how the government is working to prevent the drop-out of students. First, I would like to say that I am not surprised that the students are less satisfied with their study situation than before. The figures from the student health and well-being survey clearly reveal the effects of a day-to-day day of closure. A lot of students have barely experienced what their new place of study has to do, because large parts of our society have been shut down for a long time. It also naturally affects the ability to become acquainted with new people. I understand that the lack of contact with fellow students and less dedicated lectures is what the students say as the main challenges. At the same time, I want to commend all the good work done by the institutions, the student organisations and the interaction to follow up the students for a very difficult time. Since last autumn, we have had two expert and working groups who have proposed measures both for mental health and for the implementation and study progression of students. The expert group that assessed and recommended follow-up actions for students at colleges, colleges and universities in the autumn of 2020, recommended actions such as more student-active education, ensuring that everyone has an offer to participate in seminar groups etc., alternative training services, social low-threshold services, access to mental health care, etc. Unfortunately, the coronary situation has had consequences in the spring of 2021. Universities, colleges and colleges have adapted to the ongoing changes in the level of action to provide students with the best possible training provision, so that they can maintain their motivation and study progress. However, the strong restrictions on access to apprenticeships we have had in parts of the country pose significant challenges for the institutions concerned and students. To this end, the Ministry of Knowledge set up a working group to assess and propose practical measures to ensure optimal study progress in the spring of 2021. The working group delivered its report on 9 April, and it proposes measures that the institutions themselves can take, such as extending the spring semester to re-establish deferred activity, and it also proposes measures that the authorities can assess, as mass testing of students. I have asked the universities and colleges to follow up both reports, and the ministry assesses the follow-up to measures aimed at the level of government. We have also spent considerable money in the last year setting up low-threshold social services and paying students to start activities and to follow up their fellow students professionally. The government has presented a student package such as: to go to professional follow-up, mental health services and low-threshold social services. This includes, inter alia: 150 million. SEK to employ students at the institutions, 50 million. NOK 20 million to do the same in student relationships. DKK to interconnections to strengthen the offer, 10 million. SEK to strengthen students’ mental health and 20 million. SEK to strengthen communication also in the spring of 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1542	The anti-infectious measures have hit the students hard, and we in SV are very concerned that this development will escalate even after we have completed this special period that we have now spent a year. More and more students are experiencing severe mental distress, and there is a clear need for a stronger commitment to mental health and good study opportunities. For many, the plagues are more acute than we can now begin to rejoice to the next semester. Earlier this year, VG has uncovered waiting lists to get a psychologist. A psychologist in Oslo has 30 weeks waiting, and I don't think it's unique. How is the government going to make sure that students who need emergency help get it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1547	I very much agree with the problem description that the representative has, namely that we are not done with this even when the vaccine is in the arm. Firstly, the figures in the SHoT survey before the pandemic, i.e. for 2018, were also alarmingly high. We also see that there will be repercussions of the situation that we have lived through the year that has passed. What we've actually done, and we're now evaluating what's going to be extended by, is we're going to give 10 million. I think many people will be better off opening up more and meeting people, as well as 10 million. SEK to employ professionals in the field of community health care, who will also be available. In addition, we've strengthened Mental Health's student phone by 1.5 million. kr, simply to ensure that it is possible to get in touch with someone who can direct you further, help you improve your daily life. We've also said that we're going to come up with a larger package both for the progress of our students and for the psychological follow-up of our society. That is why the Kjøs Committee has just presented its report.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1554	I am, as you can see, very seriously concerned about the mental health of the students and think that this government has prioritised errors when they have been committed to supporting the business without making demands on them, while the students have had to deal with them without any particular support. The government has not been willing to ensure that students who receive loans and scholarships from the Loan Fund and have experienced loss of income as a result of the covid-19 pandemic have also been able to receive daily money, and the crisis support that has come to the students has come in the form of more loans, with the result that the students are left with extra debt after covid-19. Is the Minister satisfied with the crisis packages that have come to the students during the pandemic and will the Council of State engage in dialogue with the students on what policy measures must be taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1561	Not only do I want to engage in dialogue with the students, but I have also been through this all the time. I am also well aware that there has been a political disagreement between the government parties and SV on whether to grant a loan, and on the grant share, but there is a very broad majority on the Stortinget that has both pointed to the Loan Fund as a tool for loss of income and been pleased that the grant share increased to 40 pst. in the new crisis package. This means that those with loss of income all the way back to the summer of 2020 can receive NOK 26 000 in increased support for the study, of which 40 pst. are scholarships, as is the rest of the student loan. There are many discouraging figures in the SHOT study. One of the things that actually goes a little bit better is the students' economy. It's probably also because the cost has been less. Someone's moved home. We also know that there has been less money to spend on various student pubs and other very pleasant events that I am happy to open again. But just as well, it might indicate that some of the measures we have taken have also been able to compensate in one area for the students, namely the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1571	‘Now it’s spring in Northern Ireland. The reindeer calves, and the small lambs are released on graze together with the adult sows. Clean, sheep and other grazing animals are sustainable and climate-friendly food production which also contributes to the maintenance of biodiversity and the cultural landscape. This could have been an idyllic, but in many areas of the county there is a huge loss of grazing animals due to predatory game. Better stock regulation is sought, especially in globular areas and in coastal areas. Are state councils satisfied that today's policy marginalises grazing industries?'
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1578	The predatory policy that I am pursuing is broadly anchored in the Stortinget. All the parties, at least those who were represented at Stortinget in 2011, were some about the agreement that was then made. I think the agreement is a good compromise. One important principle of the predatory game policy is that we want to keep both the predators and the grazing industries. Such a two-part objective is demanding because there are inherent conflicts between the two different interests. However, I have problems seeing what would be a better alternative than having such a two-part goal, because I want to keep both predators and predators alive. Both the predatory and grazing industries make a great effort each year to cope with this combination. The fact that one has closed down managing a two-part objective without requiring it for both stakeholders is not realistic, but nevertheless shows, for example: the large drop in the loss of sheep to predatory game in recent years that we are being better and better closed. It also applies in Northern Ireland. In the peak year 2012, that is, after the Center Party had ruled this for seven years, 4,600 sheep and lambs were replaced in Northern Ireland, while the figure for last year showed a decrease, down to 2,800 sheep and lambs. During the same period, the amount of sheep on the pasturebed has been relatively stable. Numbers from Rovdata show that the gaupe stock target was reached for the first time in the last decade of 2020 and then with a younger one more than the target. After a few years under the stock target, the herd has also been on the stock for the last three years. So the target is 10 year-olds, and the registrations showed that there were 11 young people after outreach in Northern Ireland. There is also a regional destination for bears, but one that has not been closed by building up a population of bears to reach that destination. So when the representative Mossleth here demands better stock regulation, it's important to remember that we're very close to the measurements for you and gloat in Northernland, and that we're a bit under when it still applies to the bear. When one knows how demanding it is every year to meet exactly a number of juveniles in a wild population, I think there's reason to say that the stock regulation for both globular and yerv in Northernland works well, as it's close to the stock targets that have been set. What's a bigger challenge in Northern Ireland is that one hasn't been closed well enough to run a clear zone management. Although the size of the predatory game populations has not been significantly larger than the stockpiles, it is a challenge that young people take place both in areas priority to predators and in areas prioritized to grazing animals. The result of this situation is that there is little care for grazing. Despite the fact that the zoning has not worked well enough in Northern Ireland, I would nevertheless like to stress that the administration follows closely the situation in order to achieve the best possible follow-up of the two-part objective there as well. Among other things, the Environment Directorate has taken decisions to kill both dams and pangs of you at a hi-locality in Northern Ireland no, and one will continuously assess the need for additional measures beyond the season.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1599	The balancing of the predatory game deal is not good. Gaupe registration in Nordland is not good. There have been repeated enquiries about getting better gauging records. So the state council is talking about zone management. If he believes that the State Manager's proposal for a game of robbery plan will provide better zone management, I can tell the Council that then would over 70 pst. of the predatory game zones be in the calving country of the reindeer. It can't possibly be a good zone management. The wind farm at Kalvvatnan in Bindal is stopped, but the reindeer can't be there because of large predatory game plagues. We want people to be able to live throughout Norway, and grazing is important for the districts. Breaking reindeer farming and grazing-based agriculture – is this part of centralisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1608	Our pasturage is going well. There is one example of this. that the number of lambs and sheep on pasture is stable also in the north. It's also national. So no one at all is about to break anything. On the contrary, we are to have viable grazing. So there'll be an intriguing excitement with animals on the outback up against the predatory game if one agrees that we're going to have predatory game in Norway, and that's what I think the Center Party is for, even though sometimes I'm a little in doubt. Then we have to be able to resolve that conflict in a good way. Now, when we've managed to bring down the loss of sheep and lambs from the top we had while the Center Party was running the policy, to the decline we've seen while we've been running, there must be reason to rejoice over it. So it's now said again that numbers, which is the best scientific documentation we have, are wrong. It's a little hard to stick to when the answer is always that the facts aren't right. We have to control the facts, something else is very difficult to stick to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1617	We have reindeer who lose 75 pst. in the case of calves for predatory game in Northern Ireland, despite the strong impact of preventive measures — more power feed, less grazing and unnatural operation. The losses are violent, but neither the take-off of the wild game nor the replacement is proportionate to the losses. Together's experience-based rough game skills are not being listened to. I know reindeer who are in vain calling the SNO, the State's nature agency, time after time to tip them off where to look for you – they don't find you. Did the administrative authorities learn anything after the reindeer massacre in Northernland last year, or do we want to see a reprisal? There is an application for a breeding permit on the bear, there is an application for a breeding permit on the yaw, but last year there were over 90 reindeer who had to pay for their life before a single breeding permit was granted in Børgefjell. Are we going to have the same massacre this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1626	It's worth noting that both the quota hunt on gaupe and the licensing on jerseys in Northern Ireland have been effective this winter. The entire hunting quota, which the Environment Directorate gave on gaupe, has been filled. In addition, 14 of the 19 animals that were adopted in connection with your licensing were taken out under the ordinary licence agreement. That's a good result. This means that the hunters have been very close to regulating the stock. It's, as I call it, also so that it's decided to make a hiccup in Northernland as well as on yours. We're just doing that to make sure that we can keep that balance, because we don't want to experience huge losses of pure to predators, and that we regulate according to the stock measures. One would think there was something that the representative from Northernland found to rejoice about, that one actually follows the measurements that have been set, and that one was closed in taking out the animals that one should take out. Then it must be what is signified by a successful policy in line with the leaders of the Greatness.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1633	Then your case no. Two over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-05.ana.ud26e1647	There is no record available. This way, the map is ready for processing today. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - That's not the case, and the meeting's been cancelled.
