ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e247	The representative of Hadia Tajik, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e270	The President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e277	Today, on behalf of the presidency, I am tabling a unanimous vote with proposals for amendments to the law on compensation for large-scale representatives, the law on gross compensation. Proposals are made both for material changes and for some minor technical changes. The technical changes do not entail any changes in reality. Of material changes, the presidency proposes the following: We propose to amend Section 2 of the Grossingsbewertungsgesetz, with a change in the name of the Grandningsbewertungscommission to the Grandningsbewerbscommittee on Remuneration. Changing names will better reflect the role and tasks of the sample than in the past and is a follow-up to the Treatment of Inst by the Storting. 371 S for 2020-2021. Furthermore, the Presidency promotes proposals to amend the third paragraph of Section 10 of the Act, which regulates the number of commuting trips to the location covered by the representatives. The Coronapandemic has shown us that there may be very special situations where there may be a need for further flexibility and expansion of commuting. Under the rules in force, there is no possibility of making such adjustments. We therefore propose that there be an exception to the law, so that, in specific situations, the presidency can expand the number of commuting trips. The Presidency will follow up the provision with guidelines to clarify the circumstances for which the waiver may be applicable. The Presidency further promotes the proposal for a new fourth paragraph of Section 10, on the possibility of more flexible use of commuting trips in cases where a moving holiday falls on Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday, but in such a way that the maximum number of commuting trips per week remains two. The proposal does not change representatives with children under 20 years of age, but allows for one extra commuter trip for other representatives in those weeks. Today, Section 12 of the Act on the reimbursement of travel expenses for the family of the representatives is designed in such a way that representatives are not allowed to cover travels for their own children who live elsewhere than the representative’s place of residence. The Presidency considers that consideration behind the visitation scheme makes it reasonable to cover travel expenses for its own children under the age of 19 who live elsewhere, and therefore proposes that Section 12 of the visitation package be extended to include their own children with a different residence. The Presidency further indicates that today, representatives are required to provide travel invoices as soon as possible and no later than one month after the end of the trip. The one-month period has no real function, because exceeding the deadline does not have any practical consequences. The one-month period has also been removed from the country's travel regulations. The Presidency therefore proposes to remove the one-month deadline but to maintain the requirement for the prompt delivery of travel invoices. Finally, the presidency of Section 20 of the new fourth paragraph proposes to regulate how to deal with the expenses of the depositors invoiced directly to the Stortinget, but not documented by travel bill. Also where expenses are paid directly by the Storting, the representative is required to provide the travel bill in the usual way. Until that is done, each representative has in practice outstanding liabilities to the Stortinget. The Presidency therefore proposes to legislate on a basis of remuneration or other financial benefits where the interpretations are not documented within three months at the time of travel. As soon as documentation/travel bill is available, the amount deducted will be refunded. The Presidency is advised by the Stortinget to decide on amendments to the bill of remuneration for large-scale representatives, as set out in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e296	Most of the legislative changes in this case will not imply any change in reality, but Red will highlight support for the proposal for deductions if expenses paid by the Storting are not documented, and also for the proposal that there is no remuneration for setting up its own business. It is necessary, because we have seen a number of government councils, especially from the Progress Party, to receive solid state aid to go out of government. That's why it has to be tightened up. It is overtime that the worst after-paid schemes for top politicians are being tightened up. In 2020, the cost of retirement benefits and post-employment benefits exceeded 9 million. kr. The Solberg government has been particularly expensive in operation. It is a kind of Norwegian policy response to the Lucerne trap. We must move forward with the really big savings knife, and preferably in good time before the elections. We are therefore proposing today, first of all, that we set a ceiling on remuneration and benefits for top politicians at 62.4 p.m. of previous income. It's really absurd that the government in the revised budget suggests that ordinary people who lose their jobs and get their daily allowances, from 1 October, go back to 62.4 pst. of previous income, whereas back salaries for politicians are 66 p.m. In addition, those who have been in government and on the Grand Duchy, when they go out, can receive a full-wage benefit for months, while the unemployed have to go down to 62.4 pst. of previous salaries from 1 October. This is not fair, and here we have to get arrangements that are more in line with what applies to ordinary people. Red believes that the safety net for the unemployed was too weak before the coronary apathy hit us, and will therefore make the crisis supplements that have been introduced permanent. At the same time, we believe that politicians, who already have both high wages and privileged positions, need to get closer to what is happening to ordinary people, and be involved in tightening up the lifeline. For this reason, we have an alternative to the presidency's proposal on Section 2 of the WBS Act. We also want to put down the Committee on Remuneration and to reduce the salaries of politicians through decisions in the Stortinget. Once we've brought it down, we're going to link the growth in wages to the development of the basic amount of popular fear, that is to say, get rid of the automatic pay raise that is happening today by the sample making a proposal for an increase in wages, which the Storting will then accept. The sample is then used as an argument that you are not responsible for your own salary, but of course you do. The payment decides on the salary itself. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e309	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e328	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e335	I will first be allowed to thank the Committee for a good cooperation in this matter as well. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus on the challenges described in this big message, as well as on the main approaches to addressing the challenges identified. I have really looked forward to this day, the day when we adopt a completion reform for higher education – the biggest reform for higher education since Reform 94. This is a reform with many and concrete measures to help more people complete and survive, a reform to help more people get better prepared for further studies, for apprenticeship and for future work, and a reform both for increased implementation and for improved quality. Today, young people have the right to start in higher education, but with some exceptions, they only have three years to complete and pass the preparatory programmes — a little longer on the professional programmes. The arrows point in the right direction, there are more and more that complete and exist, but it is also obvious that there are still too many that fall from and that need more time. I am therefore very pleased that one of the main steps of this reform is to give young people a right of completion, not just a right to begin. Of course, students still have to make an effort to pass, but now they are entitled to training until they do. This reform also points to something very important: that no students are A4 students, that students are not moving in pace, and that they are learning at different rates. Another important step in this reform is to give greater room for better organised training and more flexible running, both for those who need more follow-up and for those who need greater challenges. The reform will help to ensure more depression, to allow students to meet something new and to gain more freedom of choice, and not to make high school feel directly like a continuation of high school. In particular, it concerns those on the study-specific programme. In order for us to succeed in this, we have to make sure that the students get more depression and space to choose more programming subjects that they are interested in, pointing in the direction they've been thinking about. It has therefore been important for the government parties and the Progress Party to listen to the uncertainty that arose in the sector following the submission of the large-scale notification. We have therefore been clear that there should be no extensive cuts in the common subjects – they have a self-esteem and an important function in themselves. We have also been interested in listening to the feedback from the sector that schools are now implementing the innovation, while schools have been in a very difficult situation under covid-19. We therefore believe that it is wise to carry out a review of the professional and hourly distribution when the schools are back in more normal operation and we have gained some experience from the innovation – of course in close cooperation with the partners in the sector. I have to say, however, that despite these clear feedbacks both from the Minister of Knowledge and from our parties in order to provide security for the further process, it is therefore members of the committee who are asking the government today to table a proposal the government has not made, not to carry out a dramatic reduction in the number of common subjects. This, I think, is a pity, because I can't easily see this as anything but a way of trying to create still uncertainty for something there's no reason. I hope that both the setting of this reform and the debate here today can set a point for that very thing. This is a reform that will mean very much too many – for all students on all study programmes, both for students who are going to gain study competence and for students who are going towards planned basic skills, for students with disabilities who are now going to have their own strategy, for both young people and adults who are now getting a historical right to complete, for those who have study skills and want a letter of formal qualifications, and for those who need a letter of formal qualifications number two. What is important to me is that this reform should also help to further develop the apprenticeship system and the practical letter system. There are too few who are offered to use these schemes today, so I am very happy that they are also covered by the reform. The Ministry of Knowledge has already started work on assessing the arrangements, a work done in connection with the investigation of the Eastfold model of the apprenticeship system, a system I believe must become a national system. This completion reform also contains many other concrete and important measures, but I know that this will be addressed by other representatives from the Right. So maybe someone here is wondering why I haven't talked about one of my heart children, professional and professional skills. Of course I will, too, but I will come back to that in a later article in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e358	There have been great expectations for this big message. There has been a solid professional preparation through several investigations, and not least the great unsolved tasks, such as getting something done with the non-response, which is ahead of us. But I want to characterize the big message we have in front of us, and not least the treatment in Stortinget today, which is nothing but a very large stomach space. The largest interventions launched by the government in the media prior to the launch of the reform were fewer common subjects, a new subject for the future and an extended school curriculum. After massive protests from the entire sector, it is now clear that there will be no such thing as any of this big deal with a new subject in the future, that it may / perhaps not – a little unclear – will not be cut off in the common subjects, and that the extended school curriculum will not help. The representative Turid Kristensen called for us to use this debate to clarify what the government really thinks about the cut in the common subjects of study-specializing. The ambiguity that is created, the government and the Right can thank themselves for it, but I agree that I hope we get a clear idea of what the government parties really mean here. Because even after they sent out a joint press release after the setting from Stortinget came, it is full confusion. I can inform the representative Kristensen that there is a lead from the government in the big news. That's what we're asking from the opposition to. The leadership of the government is a massive cut in the common subjects. The sector has called it a frenzy of the common subjects, and the government clearly describes its desire to cut into the number of common subjects. I hope that in this debate we will be able to clarify, from the Right and the Advance Party in particular, whether one stands behind the leadership of the government in the big news, or whether it is this one now deviates. We in the opposition have made a proposal to remove this premise from the government. I have not seen that neither the Right Party nor the Advance Party have made it clear that they will remove that assumption, and as long as it is in the big news, the Storting will give its consent to it, and it will be passed on as the Left will, as the media has said. Fortunately, there is broad political agreement on many of the other important proposals that the Song Committee has put forward, as the rapporteur said, as a right of completion. Important steps are being taken to allow more adults to go to higher education, and not least for a more inclusive secondary school, in order to provide disabled students with a better offer than at present. Unfortunately, for these last students, we have to wait for a government strategy or action plan before getting something more concrete, but the expectations of the Stortinget are great that it will come quickly and clearly. Unfortunately, there are also very many other suggestions from the Song Committee that are good, which the government meets with a bit like that wait, investigated, evaluate. I think we've waited long enough, and the opposition in Stortinget is impatient. That is why I am pleased that in the opposition we have a majority for so many things, for example. – as proposed by the Song Committee – attempts at mandatory transition courses for those with low linguistic and professional backgrounds, more practice letter arrangements, new exchange models, financing of professional equipment and the review of equipment scholarships. I am also very pleased that we cancel the government's proposal with a letter as a student. The proposal of the right-wing authority would have weakened the apprenticeship system and introduced a and b letters of formal qualifications. There was massive opposition from the entire sector. LO and NHO were clear, and I really think it's revealing that the right-wing government thinks that you can learn the same thing on the school bench as on a business. Letters that students will be allowed to exist as an emergency solution, as it is today, but not as a solution for the thousands without an apprenticeship, as the government would. The working party would rather have a learning place guarantee to solve this. I am also very happy that we have been told that the training offices will remain statutory. They are an important link between school and learning, and there was an unnecessary uncertainty about their place further. So I'm glad. Finally, I would like to say that the Labour Party wants to vote in favour of proposal No. 13, from the Progress Party, the Centre Party and SV, on the Introductory Sector. And I would like to bring up with this the proposals that we are promoting together with the Central Party and SV in the case – proposals from an impatient opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e379	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e384	The completion reform itself is a reform with broad political support. The Storting Communication provides a good basis for more people to complete upper secondary education and facilitates the better preparation of more people for further studies or working life. It's very good, but there's a lot of nice words, and it can be both better and more concrete. That is why I am particularly pleased that the Progress Party, in cooperation with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, has agreed on quite a few of the decisions that will improve the reform. If you want to succeed as a student in higher education, you need to be ready for higher education. Therefore, this communication must also be seen in the context of early efforts, and the transition from primary to secondary education needs to be prioritised above what is currently being done. In this context, it is particularly important to focus on students with low linguistic or professional backgrounds. The majority therefore believe that trials with mandatory transition courses and offers need to be carried out in order to give all students starting in higher education a better foundation than they have today. The fact that you have passed high school or have qualifications in some subjects is unfortunately the only thing about the Progress Party for a long time. We see from Denmark that this has led to a decline in absenteeism, and it has given better quality in teaching. So in a well-known FrP style, this might still be adopted in a few years' time, as is often the case with forward-looking proposals. It is also established that there is a need to intensify the work of securing all places of learning and to want as little as possible of Vg3 in school. Now you can probably interpret what is in the message differently, but a potential expansion of vg3 in school is a failure, and the majority is strongly critical of the proposal to extend it, on a general basis. The general rule is, and shall be, company practice – sentence. Business practices contribute to the socialisation of apprentices into the profession. You learn all the things you have to deal with about the breadth of demands and expectations for them as professionals. And to plaguing other statements, I can say from this pulpit that I love skilled workers, and I love craftsmen. We also have to assume that even though we're the most people, we're different, and we learn in different ways. This is why it is also important to organise training for the best for each individual student. Some are theorists, some are practitioners. That's why I think it's great that the government parties joined in our remark about the climbing model, where you can become an apprentice from the first week of school. The students there do exactly the same in terms of the curriculum and training, during these four years, but the schools are divided over the period, and you work all the way. So when the government agrees that this is a model that should be tried several times, I expect them to facilitate the situation. In addition, the majority have clarified that the system of grants for apprentices, trainees and apprentices with special needs is important and that the scheme should be strengthened is not liquidated. Finally, in recent years, there have been a record in the number of apprenticeships, but there are still many unplaced students. One of the reasons for this is the dimensioning of education provision and the need for employment. We can't adopt any more classrooms, but we can organize the education that's being asked for. In this case, training offices are of exceptional importance. They are so important that the Progress Party, in cooperation with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, has simply stated that the law of the training offices and their approval as a apprenticeship must continue. We also ask that the function of training offices as a link between school and apprenticeships be strengthened. Training offices are alpha and omega for many small and medium-sized enterprises across the country. They should get more to do, not less Training offices, enterprises and social partners must play a central role in cooperation with the counties in terms of both career guidance and dimensioning of training provision. Today's working life and the future's working life are created in the market. It is not adopted by the State or county, and this must be reflected in the framework conditions for both education and industry. Then I would like to address the proposal that the Progress Party is promoting alone, and those that we are promoting with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e414	The representative Hanne Dyveke Sweets has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e419	I also love a tradesman. I don't know if that's what Sweetheart meant, but there were many good points here. Higher education is about the road to education and professional life. It's the bridge over into adult life. It's going to be a lot of serious when you start in high school. Besides, it'll be serious for those who take high school as adults. Therefore, it is also serious when we discuss changing the whole of secondary education in the long term. It's life it's all about. It's almost 30 years since last year's high school change in general, with Reform 94. On the other hand, the curricula and the framework have changed in several ways. The county councils responsible for secondary schools have also had a certain drive. There is no doubt that the elected representatives of the counties throughout the country have worked to ensure that as many students as possible are able to complete. The government could do more to give the states a good basis for doing this. The upland state, and now the Inland state, has worked for the right of completion for a long time in many ways. Now we're going to decide on that in Stortinget as well. In one way we turn open doors – on another we set new standard. At least we have to deal with the high school dropout. It's about getting opportunities where you look a way out and a way through, no matter what prerequisites you have to complete. Because everyone has to have equal opportunities to complete high school. The Song Committee has done a thorough and good job ahead of this big message. Several of the suggestions from their two NOUs are still hanging in loose air, and are not taken down. Together with new curricula and an informed review of the Training Act, we can once again say that the government is more good at putting down selections than following them up. The centre party wanted more and more action and, fortunately, has been able to see through to several of them today. The centre party believes the school must be more practical and active. We as people learn differently, develop differently and have far different plans for the future. Then there must also be room for it in high school. Students at study specialists need to gain insight into higher education and studies. Lumber students must be able to get their hands on the hammer from the first day — and teachers a working day that focuses on learning and the school environment. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Centre Party, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Progress Party, agree on several good proposals. The value of drawing out is e.g. practical letters, introductory subjects and the tightening of diplomas as a student. The centre party has – as now, in opposition – been the driving force for the exchange model and room for more practice earlier in the education for the students, even when we were in position. The relevance of education is also related to equipment — as the Storting is now clearly pointing out. In addition, we turn the training offices around. Their role for apprenticeships, apprentices and just completion of secondary education is central. Many training offices along with school staff make an invaluable effort to follow up students and apprentices. Production schools have also proved to be an important way forward for many students. Visiting Hyssingen manufacturing school in Hordaland made an impression on me, with many students who had obviously found new meaning with high school, where they mastered and just produced concrete results. The centre party believes it has to be invested in higher education. We in Stortinget have a job to do to lift the commitment around high school and politics to do it better. We had good involvement in the development of new curricula. Now the parties also need to be involved in the further development of higher education too. Companies are crucial when it comes to skilled workers. The county council is important at large. In addition, the central party believes that admission to secondary school should be determined by the counties, as an overwhelming majority of the hearing bodies and hearings also wanted both when the government had at the hearing proposals for national overrides, and when we in the committee had it at the hearing. And, of course, now that the assessment system is also to be revised, in line with the decision of the big business decision of 2018, the parties must also be involved. For the Central Party, it's about equal opportunities throughout the country. Secondary schools should be good and close. It's a value for the students to step over into adult life and get their education and profession on the way there. We're helping to raise the seriousness and the importance. It's life it's all about. I'm going to deal with the proposals. 15–18, from the Centre Party and the SV, and the proposals No. 20 and 21, from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e447	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e452	A completion reform is good news for very many young people and for Norway as a society. It is important to put an end to the systematic obstacles to the exclusion of young people from working life. In this way, more people can become qualified for study, letter and work as early as possible, which means that more young people can live worthwhile lives at the same time as society gets the necessary workforce. A prerequisite is that students are given sufficient freedom of choice to stimulate motivation and to stimulate learning. Norway should be a knowledge nation, and we need more and better skilled workers. Most people who complete a profession get a job when they're done. Nevertheless, too few choose professional occupations. By raising the status and knowledge of the professions, we can help more young people to take this path to a future profession. Although it is expensive when students switch educational programmes, it costs each student and society much more that so many young people end up without a letter or study qualification. SV will use more resources for good advice, follow-up and better opportunities to take exams that are lacking to gain study competence. SV will strengthen efforts to combat non-response and ensure that all receive high-quality, independent of their place of residence and background. There are in particular three aspects SV have been addressed in this message. First of all, we in SV are critical of the government's proposal that more people should take a diploma as a student. In the case of Vg3 at school, the impression is that students are guaranteed to complete their courses as a student, and indirectly the impression is that this is a form of apprenticeship guarantee. This is a hollowing out of today's model. Vg3 in school is an emergency. Solving the shortage of apprenticeships is essential for more people to complete higher education. The government's proposal to extend the system of professional letters as a student is a shortcut to better results for the completion of statistics, but this implies a deterioration in the relevance and confidence of the vocational and vocational training system and a letter that is less attractive in the workplace for the student. Secondly, we in SV support the Lied Committee's proposal to review the professional and hourly distribution in order to provide room for professional immersion and concentration, but we are critical that the government in the communication has concluded in advance that the review will lead to fewer common subjects, and the introduction of a diffuse future subject with unclear professional foundations. We believe that, once and for all, we need to abandon the proposal for a new future in higher education and the proposal to dramatically reduce the number of common subjects. Thirdly, we in SV will strengthen efforts to combat non-response by ensuring that all students who are going to learn, a place of learning. The reason for the great lack of vocational training can be explained by the fact that many students experience that it takes a long time before they receive practical training in the subject they have chosen. Many students thus lose the motivation for the training. To respond to this challenge, the Red-Green Government introduced an exchange model as an equal alternative to the main model. Relatively few schools currently offer these exchange models. Some of the reasons may be increased costs. We are concerned that this is a contributing reason why relatively few students and apprentices are given this opportunity. I am sincerely sorry for how much uncertainty and unrest the government was able to create when they presented their draft implementation reform. It is obvious that we have a knowledge minister who has been in little contact with the sector in the design of the communication. This, by the way, is not limited to the much-discussed and controversial issue of the common science and the new future. On a case-by-case basis, the Council of State is coming forward. This applies to the question of a new admission scheme in secondary school, to force the counties to take character, new math examinations and, finally, to the oral examination, which was cancelled at 12 hours. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e471	The representative of Mona Fagerås has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e477	Education gives freedom and opportunities in the lives of each person. Completion of secondary education is essential for opportunities and links with the labour market. Every year, several thousand young people leave higher education without having obtained a qualification or a letter of formal qualifications. The aim is for nine out of ten to complete secondary education. The time has come to look at the major stumbling blocks in the system, such as the requirement that everyone should complete at the same time, that there are no good measures for students who do not have the professional skills they need from primary school, and that students who do not have a place to study do not have an adequate alternative to completing the training. Now let's remove these stumbling blocks. The staging message on the reform of completion is the largest reform of secondary education since reform 94. In 1994, students were entitled to secondary education, but the law has been limited. We have had youth rights, adult rights and some extended opportunities in special cases. Now these constraints are removed. Everyone will have the right to complete secondary education, and that means that students, young people and adults will have the time they need and the follow-up they need to complete secondary education. Students are different and have different needs, but with the completion reform there will be early efforts and follow-up of the students who need it, and greater flexibility and opportunities for adapted training courses. It will have an enormous impact on both young people and adults who, for various reasons, have not completed secondary education. Now they can come back to school and complete their study skills or diplomas. The completion reform gives students the right to take a letter if you have a study qualification or to take another letter if you already have one. It means greater freedom and opportunities for each individual, but it will also be crucial for the working and business life, which needs more skilled workers. For too many students who do not complete secondary education, it is a matter of not having a place to study after two years in higher education. For some people it just takes a little longer to get a lesson. Someone loses the classroom along the way, and someone doesn't get a place to learn. Systematic efforts to ensure that more students are given a place to learn will continue, and the goal is, of course, that everyone is given a place to learn. We have to do more than we do today, and we have to dry to do things a little different than today. I record that the Workers' Party and SV will continue to solve this with a statutory apprenticeship guarantee, despite the fact that the red-green government both investigated this and dropped the proposal. Today's government will solve this by continuing to work on what the red-green government did at the time as a trial project, and which is later pointed out in other investigations: the offer to students who do not have a place to learn needs to be much better. Quality needs to be raised, and we need to ensure that students can be taught when the opportunity arises, or when the student is ready, that the offer can be expanded in time and further developed in cooperation with the social partners and in close cooperation with the business community, so that students receive a letter of formal qualifications, a letter of trust in society and the business community. This work is already in progress, and I am pleased that an overall committee recognises that work must continue. I note that the opposition parties will ask the government to abandon what they refer to as the ‘proposal to extend the system of professional letters such as students outside the labour force and the apprenticeship system’, and do not want more students to take a professional letter at school. Of course, the government does not want more students to take a letter as a student – on the contrary – and has therefore not proposed extending it so that more students take the letter as a student. What the government has proposed, on the other hand, is to expand the offer in time and quality to give students who have no alternative, a better offer, and I am pleased that it has broad support. I'm also glad that there's support for a review of the professional and hourly distribution in high school. Community activities shall continue to have a central place and a general role. At the same time, it is important to make a review in order to ensure room for more depression and freedom of choice for students. We look forward to a broad and inclusive process on this together with the entire education sector in the coming period. Today, 78.1 pst completes. by high school students in five to six years. We want at least nine out of ten students to complete and pass secondary education by 2030. Today, when we adopt the reform of completion, it is historic. Now we guarantee freedom and new opportunities both for high school students and for those 500,000 adults who have not completed high school, who are now getting a new chance. I am pleased that the great grips of the Single European Act on the reform of completion have wide support in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e498	Each year, more than 3500 students exercise the right to secondary education without having acquired study or professional competence. In addition, some 2 000 have started in Vg3 or in learning but have not attained study or professional competence six years later. There are many reasons for the lack of completion of school courses that are not directly related to school. It can be about living conditions challenges, psychosocial disorders, health challenges or language challenges. But it is also about causes that are directly school-related. When we look at these 5,500 young people who are not completing, we need to be aware that although not all causes are school-related, we cannot push them in front of us to apologize for a system that is unable to lift more young people through high school. Through the implementation reform, we recognise the problems, we do something with them structurally for the first time since the mid-1990s. It shows action, and it shows willingness to change. The speech of the figures also shows a clear link between the academic basis of the pupils from primary school and the likelihood of discontinuing secondary education. All of this makes it difficult to avoid asking questions about Norwegian higher education being able to take care of everyone, or about the way today's training works, is helping to create a distinction between those who succeed and those who fail and how we can create more winners. Although we are not satisfied with today's implementation figures, much is positive, for example. that almost the entire youth group today goes directly from high school to high school. We must take this as a sign that young people are concerned about education, that they understand the importance of education for their opportunities in social and work life. Today's youth shows us that they want to be active in their choices, that community means something, and that they want more control and overview of their own educational pathways towards employment as desired and as needed. This calls for a more equivalent training offer, offering all training to support them to develop their skills and knowledge, and thus for active participation in society and in the labour market, taking into account the opportunities and needs we see in today's and tomorrow's societies. We are all well served that higher education is available to everyone, that we meet everyone with an offer adapted to the individual, and that the training gives the individual time to experience mastering on the way to study or professional competence. So what are the obstacles addressed in this big message? What are the obstacles that we want to remove in order for higher education to carry out its mission of preparing today's youth for participation in social and work life and for further education? Those who have completed secondary education are found to have a relationship with the labour market and are less dependent on public benefits. That's why we're now giving completion rights to all high school students. We also establish a right to take a letter if you have a letter from before, or to take a letter if you already have a study qualification. This right, together with the right to complete secondary education, will include more young people and adults in the labour market. This is good news for both young people and adults who want to increase their skills or change jobs. With more flexibility in time use and greater freedom of choice for students, they are now given an offer that is better adapted to their own needs and wishes for the future. The objective of this government is to complete at least nine out of ten secondary education. With the measures set out in this Communication, we are facilitating higher education that is better adapted to the individual student, which is better suited to the future's skills needs, challenges and opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e521	The objective paragraph sets ambitious objectives for secondary education: the training shall include, inter alia: open the doors of the world and the future and provide historical and cultural insight and anchoring. Students and apprentices shall develop knowledge, skills and attitudes to master their lives and to participate in work and together in society. Reaching these objectives is a shared responsibility. We who sit in this room have an obligation to ensure that schools, educational establishments and county councils have the opportunity to make these visions reality. There's a lot that's good with today's high school, and there's a lot we're going to keep. However, there are also challenges in schools, and the problem descriptions in the communication have received broad support. I will present the main reason why we are presenting this message now. Higher education has become a prerequisite for a stable relationship with the labour market. It's voluntary to start in high school, but there's no alternative to not doing it. Further progress must therefore be made more accessible to all, and we must help ensure that everyone has an opportunity to complete. With the reform of completion, the government removes stumbling blocks and unnecessary obstacles so that higher education can meet the objectives of the purpose paragraph. I'm glad that the Storting largely adheres to how we intend to solve these problems. We agree on several objectives: First of all, everyone who needs more professional support should get it. Most people can complete secondary education — many with very good results — if they are allowed to spend a little extra time. Today, access to secondary education is restricted. Every year more than 5,000 students lose their rights because they have not completed after spending three years. We agree that we need to change that. No matter how long it takes, all those starting in upper secondary education shall be entitled to training until their study or professional competence. The government is concerned with early school interventions — and this is also the case to a greater extent in higher education. Therefore, we will also propose an obligation to initiate intensive training for students who are at risk of not having a job. Students who have lived in Norway for a short time and who have weak Norwegian skills need more support. Therefore, all those in need should receive a transitional offer with special emphasis on Norwegian training. We also agree that higher education needs to be better adapted to diversity and the different challenges that students face. It's not just professional challenges that make it complete. Psychiatric problems or a difficult home situation may, for example: affect the ability to complete and pass. Students are now to be given better follow-up in the transition from secondary to secondary education, absences are to be followed up more closely and more systematically, and follow-up services are to be extended. Thirdly, we agree that higher education should be better adapted to adults. Today there are about 500,000 adults who have not completed high school. The right to complete will give back the right to adults who have used it up in the past. It is equally important that they should be able to take upper secondary modules as short modules. They can then more easily combine training with family and work and have more quickly documented skills that they have acquired. After much discussion, we have also agreed that we should review the professional and hourly distribution. I'm glad that a majority on Stortinget sees that we need an overall review of the trade and hour distribution. I look forward to good discussions with the entire School-Norway on what is going to be the content of VGO in the years to come. Finally, I think we agree that Norway needs more skilled workers. By introducing a right to professional re-qualification, we are taking a major step towards allowing more people to take vocational training. The Court will apply to both those who have attended preparatory courses and to professionals who want to take a new letter. The government has worked a long time for more people to learn, and there has been a positive development. Last year, however, there were 4,400 young people who did not have a place to study. Also this group has a right to complete without unnecessary interruption. Among these are not large, and I believe that they are entitled to a significantly better offer than today. I hope we can continue the work that we've started, with just that. The size has already granted 200 million. kr for the work of offering a better offer to those who do not receive a course. It's a work that we do closely with the parties. I am pleased that the implementation reform received broad support both in the Committee's hearing and in the Stortinget. With the completion reform, we create a high school that gives students more freedom — a high school that takes on the fact that young people are different and that promises both students who have good results and those who need more follow-up. Many of the proposals have created a debate. I think that's a good sign. That means that many people care about the contents of high school, and many people care about it getting better. This is an area many have strong opinions about, and I think that is good. That doesn't mean we're not going to deal with what's controversial and demanding, so I'm looking forward to a good debate here today as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e559	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e564	I am glad that the Council of State itself abandoned its own proposal on a future subject, that it has now been cancelled, but there is still some confusion about the common subjects. The Workers' Party wants, as I have understood, that almost all parties in this Chamber want, to be a complete review of the trade-and-hour distribution without the leaders of the Council of State and the government adding up to its big message. I want to go back to it. The council itself has said that she was misunderstood in some opinions, and that that was what started this debate, but that is quite wrong. These are clear wordings in the main message, where the government clearly provides guidance for the review of the professional and hourly breakdown that should be – one has decided in advance. Therefore, I will now ask the Council of State to confirm or cancel. Is the government now putting away the leaders that have been mentioned about the public sector in the Storing Message?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e575	One of the major challenges we have tried to address in this message is that three out of five feel that they are not well enough prepared for study. What both the students themselves and the educational institutions point to is that they have not had enough depression, that they have not gained enough competence to read complex texts, nor to write texts themselves. So giving more room for immersion has been one of the most important things for us, to make sure that students are better prepared for study. What many have pointed out, among others: The Song Committee is that today's trade-and-hour distribution contributes to the training being perceived as quite fragmented. Students can only have a lot of subjects in one day, they have a lot of assessment situations in one day and in one week, and they experience that they never get enough time to get into the subject. That's why we've taken that ball from the Song Committee, and we've said that we need a review of the trade and hour distribution. The leaders we gave were that some subjects we thought there was no reason to discuss whether to be mandatory or not, and that was Norwegian, English, and mathematics. So there will be a wide range of existing common subjects that would naturally be mandatory also in such a model, but we want a broad investigation of this and a broad dialogue with the whole sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e582	Here it is quite clear that the Council of State is still standing on the leaders in the main message, and has not changed anything. What the Council of State says is bad with the press release that the rest of the government parties at Stortinget have sent out. We agree in principle, all the parties, that one must have more depression and not least be more prepared for study. One fully agrees that there is a need for a comprehensive review of the professional and hourly distribution. The question is which leads to that review. It would have a lot to say about how the result of that review of the trade and hour distribution is. The Labour Party believes it's unfortunate if you have such clear leadership as the government says, that it will actually achieve a good, comprehensive review, but the Council of State will therefore stand firm on the leaders of the big news. So I'm going to try again: will the Council of State now remove the leaders mentioned in the Storing Message, and make sure that there is a completely free review of the trade and hour distribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e591	As I said, I am very pleased that we now have a majority to review the professional and hourly distribution. First of all, the leaders that we are fully in agreement with, and that I put myself fully behind, are that the common subjects have, and are still going to have, a central function in higher education. We must create room for more depression and relevance, and we also want more freedom of choice. If you're going to have more freedom of choice, I mean, and we also have a majority to say that 70 pst. hours shall be tied up in a common subject, not necessarily giving students more freedom of choice. It must be possible to see if you can reduce the number of compulsory subjects, the number of hours the students spend on compulsory subjects, in order to give students more power to decide for themselves. I want to promise that when we presented this big message, this was one of the points that the Student Organisation really raised as an important point. The fact that they are now more likely to have an opportunity to determine their own everyday life, what they themselves should learn, what they should be given the opportunity to immerse themselves in, has been important to us, and that is also the majority for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e598	I was a little surprised, and it was also the Song Committee itself, over the leaders of the government, because the leaders for the review of the subject and hour distribution also do not agree with the Song Committee's recommendations for such a review. That's why I'm so concerned about, when you're going to get a complete review of the trade and hour distribution, that it's going to be without the kind of leadership that the council here gives. That I think will narrow down that review and the results it will get. I'm even there that you don't necessarily have to be at peace with Norwegian, as the Song Committee is aware that you might want to make parts of the electoral profession, for example. I want a complete, comprehensive review, and it's the Council of State that's going to give the leadership on how that review is going to be. So once again, can a cancel or confirm whether that review, when it is started, will have the leaders described in the Storing Message, or will it be free of leadership?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e603	I made a message for the Stortinget with our proposals. That notification has now been the subject of a comitology procedure and is being examined in this Chamber. Here, there is a majority in order for us to have a review of the professional and hourly distribution, where we are going to facilitate more freedom of choice, but where the common subjects are going to have a central place. These are the leaders who have a majority here today, who will be the basis for that investigation. I believe that the bulk of the population is leading that investigation very well. What was both my intention, and which I also perceive was the intention of the majority, was not to put too strong a lead into that investigation, but to make sure that this is something we do in a broad involvement with the sector. I'm actually also feeling that we're pretty close to the Song Committee. What's interesting is that the Song Committee itself pointed out that you should look at the disciplines again, if it was possible to merge some of the subjects. That's what the population has said that you don't want to do. Of course, I respect that, but it's not like we're following the Song Committee in one and the same. But the premise that there are some subjects that are basic and common to all – it is similar in the big news, the Song Committee and the majority here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e612	The report says that higher education should be based on qualifications, and it is a recording from the Song Committee. Then I wonder: how should you check that the students are qualified, if you do not have qualifications or have other evidence from high school when you are admitted to secondary education?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e618	A main priority for us has been to remove stumbling blocks in the system. As the right to secondary education is designed today, if you have gone for three years and have failed to complete, you have used up your right to justice, with the result that you are really left with a rather poor alternative to how to move on in life. Now we've removed that time limit, and we're expanding the right to higher education so that it's a real right. Then we have thought that introducing new stumbling blocks and new barriers to starting further education would be a mistake, because it will affect some of the students that we are most concerned about including. Our approach has also been that we need to strengthen the offer of those students who enter higher education with the weakest professional background. I'm very concerned when we see that among those who have less than 3 on average, it's less than half as things to complete. Then we have to do something, but I don't think the solution is to refuse them to enter higher education – then they have at least no options. We have to let them come in, but then we have to give them a more custom offer than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e623	The government likes to point out that there are several people who have signed apprenticeships in recent years. Then it's still a fact that too many people don't have the opportunity to complete their vocational training in the company. The message gives the impression that the government is giving up and going in to improve today's emergency solution, namely a letter as a student at Vg3 in school. In this setting, it may indicate that the government parties do not fully agree with themselves or their own government. This can be understood in two ways, so to clarify any misunderstandings: does the government want more students to take full vocational training at school instead of in the company? Is it at all possible to provide an apprenticeship guarantee? And what role, if any, does the training office play?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e628	I'm very pleased with the commitment of the Center Party to apprenticeships, and I share that. I wish I could say with my heart that all students who start a course of vocational and vocational training will receive a course and complete it that way. I then issue a guarantee on behalf of Norwegian companies – that they have to hire people they may not want to hire – and I also issue a guarantee that we will have the same need in all educational programmes across the country, so that everyone can get a place to learn. I believe it is completely impossible to issue such a guarantee. Either way, our main priority is of course to get as many learning places as possible, and that has also been the focus of all our actions in recent years. But I think we have to realize that almost no matter which one of us controls, it's going to be a small percentage of students who don't get a place to learn, at least not right away. Then I don't think they should get an emergency solution, as they get today, I think they should get a full offer. These are some of the weakest students with the greatest professional challenges, and then they will not get an offer that is worse than the others. Of course, I do not want more people to take it, but as little as possible, but they will have a chance to get through.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e633	My question concerns the exchange model. An exchange model is a parallel alternative to the main model of two years in school and two years in learning. The extent of the theory is the same, but students receive alternating training in the theory and practice of the enterprise and school throughout the education cycle. Then there are relatively few schools offering such exchange models, and some of the reasons for this may be increased costs. Does the Minister think the exchange model is a good solution? Why does the Minister think this is not a matter of course everywhere, and what can be done to ensure that more students get this opportunity?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e640	Thank you for the question. One of the main reasons why we're now expanding the law so that it's not as limited in time as it was before is just to give more room to find different solutions that are better suited to the individual student's needs. Offering more than one exchange model, offering more people to take the education in a slightly different order, spending a little longer time on some things, I think it's the way to go. Since the students are so different and enter higher education with such a different background, we can't believe that everyone should be pushed through the same system. Although most training courses follow the 2+2 model, almost a quarter today have a different organisation. Today’s legislation opens up the use of this type of organisation, and counties are free to organise it. The evaluation of the exchange model shows that it works very well for motivated students, but not all students have just as clearly defined what should be the goal of their starting point, and it is also resource-intensive for county municipalities. I believe that the exchange model is a positive contribution, and I believe that today's legislation facilitates the creation of more. But I want us to have a dialogue with the county councils to get even more opportunities for even more students.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e647	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e654	It is good to hear the care, care and love of skilled workers. Here it says a tradesman – a proud tradesman. I think almost the new checkpoint when you're going to town must be that here at the table there's a tradesman. The completion reform shall be a security ensuring that all those taking secondary education are able to complete. But it has to happen in a way that creates mastering and motivation for the individual. It is best ensured through good professional ballast in primary school and through early interventions and practical training in the school where students are allowed to use their professional opportunities. At the same time, it should be preparatory to study-specification. It's absolutely crucial for good mastering at school. One of the government's proposals was to extend the right to take a further one-year letter in high school. When I was an apprentice myself in the 1970s, the exchange model was in force. There were two to three months out in the company and two to three months in school, which was a very good school offer and not least a business offer. That model I think should be given even greater space in the future apprenticeship system. Now it is proposed to offer students who have lost their motivation at school, one more year, instead of getting into the company and getting a professional letter that fully completed skilled workers with the skills that businesses demand, which is absolutely crucial. Providing a b-letter through the school that is not requested anywhere, and which the business itself says is not sufficient or good enough, is the wrong way to go, and fortunately it seems that most people now have understood all the professional recordings that have come, both from business, from employee organisations and from school itself. There are many different reasons why students drop out of high school. Everyone has different assumptions when starting secondary education. Higher education is far too much adapted to the diverse student group and too little adapted to low-skilled students. All secondary schools should facilitate practical letters or a similar offer for students who need more time and organised training in order to become a good professional in the future. I'll take a new post, because I'll see the time goes by. Here's a proud tradesman.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e667	There have been many good speeches about actions and ambitions that lie in the reform of completion, but when you listen to the opposition’s – and perhaps especially Tvedt Solberg’s – posts, you suspect that they have either not read the position or that they are deliberately misunderstood. But then it's election year, so maybe it's where it is. It is quite alarming to hear that there has been no obvious addition to either the dramatic cut or the fixed position of the public sector, and not mention that we are going to introduce Vg3 to school by standard. Then it seems as if it doesn't completely sink in. If you mean, like, for example. Tvidt Solberg says that these leaders are not to be placed, is it tempting to ask the representative the question: Does the Labour Party believe that Norwegian should not be part of the common subjects? Or maybe you don't think you're going to be taking the lead on no comprehensive cut? Well, I'll wait in the excitement, and in the meantime I want to talk about some other things that are in the setting. It is important to stress that those who labor professionally will receive the support and assistance they need in order to complete and pass. Research shows that it is essential that efforts are put in place at an early stage. That is why we have now proposed an obligation for the county councils to work systematically and preventively with students who are at risk of not passing the profession. The duty is to ensure that the County Council identifies early on those who are struggling and takes the necessary action. At the same time, we have a duty to provide the county councils and schools with a large space for action to put in place the right measures. Students who have migrated and lived in Norway for a short time often have too poor Norwegian skills to complete and pass. Today, there are several examples of good offers for these students, but offers do not reach the whole target population. That is why we have proposed an obligation, not an investigation, for county councils to have a transitional offer for students who have migrated. The offer shall be an integral part of secondary education and shall be recorded on a continuous basis. While there are many good arguments that the transitional offer should be mandatory, it is for the time being important to stress that it may not be legally possible since the students are deprived of the right to take up regular secondary education. This leads to some dilemmas that we should get a better overview of. The testing of introductory subjects for low-skilled students could give us the knowledge we need to assess just this. To achieve the goal of completing and passing nine out of ten, we have to work on several fronts. This government has put a great deal of emphasis on teacher competence and teacher's density in primary school, and now it's time for us to give early work in high school a boost. The measures we are discussing here also need to be seen in the context of other measures in the Communication, since the drop-out in secondary school is a complex problem for many reasons. The measures set out in the Communication should therefore work together and create higher education which will be more successful in raising the weak students.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e680	Today's hero is for me 56-year-old Catarina Kristiansen, who I read about today in my local style. After 29 years in a sales job, she has graduated as a professional letter while working in a construction product chain at Tjøme. She says to the newspaper that it was never a question of taking a professional letter for sale and service when she started working. Then a couple of colleagues started talking about that it could be nice to have papers on their qualifications and also get the pay supplement that comes with them. Catarina successfully completed education with the best grades. In this way, she stands as a symbol of what we are debating here today: willingness to learn, flexibility, adaptation, curiosity – in short, learning throughout her life. In the highly caricatured debate on the leadership that has followed in the wake of the big news, it is certainly tempting for discerning opposition politicians to forget what this reform really is about, namely freedom and opportunities throughout their lives, and I will add: security in an endless world of transformation at an ever faster speed. Today's school is based on the stumbling blocks of Reform 94. «The school reforms in the 1990s were an experiment that largely failed and made thousands of school students guinea pigs», asserted school researcher, now Professor Tom Arne Trippestad when he completed his doctoral thesis entitled Command Humanism, a critical analysis of Gudmund Hernes' rhetoric, social engineering and education policy. "We lost decades of systematic and thorough school development based on knowledge, as opposed to the imagination and fortune-telling of random political leaders," says Trippestad. The result is a drop-out from high school that is dramatic. It should have been clear to everyone that when one third of Norwegian students in high school do not complete, there is nothing wrong with it, but the politicians created this school. But it's not just knowledge it's about, but something that's at least as serious: social inequality, health, life-long and not least mastering, what we like to call being the boss of our own lives. Education is a fundamental variable in all research on quality of life. It is this completion reform that takes hold, and that is why I would have thought that it would be met with a unisonous cheerleader from a total staggering. But as Gudmundsen said, it's an election year. That's why this important equality reform is called a gastric plaque. This is unintelligible, and it is incomprehensible, especially since the Workers' Party for the longest time has realized that Reform 94 was not a belly pad, but a drop into an empty pool. And in the eagerness to find more or less well-founded and partly deliberately distorted arguments against the reform, a debate has been launched on something quite different than the freedom debate that should have been the framework for what we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e691	I'll take it down a little bit. In the next case on the current map, the Stortinget will discuss the proposal on Norwegian participation in the Erasmus+ programme. I find it inspiring that the EU has such great ambitions and willingness to invest in exchanges of students, apprentices and students in Europe. We in the Workers' Party had wanted and hoped that the government had some of the same willingness to bet. Training should open doors to the world, said State Council Melby. In Norway, the exchange in secondary education is declining. We have also freshened the government's announcement of international student mobility, where it is a long-term goal that half of Norwegian students should leave. However, the instruments in the notification are missing, despite the fact that the proportion of people leaving has remained silent on 15-16 p.m. in the last few years, and the pandemic does not provide any drachma in that way. The Labour Party wishes to increase internationalisation and international cooperation in education and research in general. When Stortinget dealt with the student mobility message, we said that the message should have a more comprehensive perspective and also addressed the organisation and impact of internationalisation and mobility in primary, secondary, higher vocational, doctoral and research. We suggested that the government present a plan for more internationalisation in primary, secondary and higher vocational education. Internationalisation in higher education contributes very well: knowledge development, language skills, cultural understanding, social skills, personal development. When the secondary exchange goes down, it should be an objective to facilitate the use of opportunities by more students. Therefore, we ask the government to consider how best to organise, so that students and apprentices do not experience unnecessary uncertainties and challenges in the training process, including such things as the possibility of holding a school place and getting a job approved. Good and predictable frameworks are necessary for mobility to be shared by all.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e702	The completion reform is the first major reform in secondary education of 30 years. I am proud that it is the Right and the government that have been in the brink of many of the major reforms in Norwegian school in recent years, whether it is the Knowledge promise, the trade union renewal or now the completion reform, which has 88 actions that are getting a majority here today – in addition to the fact that the Education News, when the reform was presented, had a headline that there is cross-political support for the completion reform. That's not what I call a gastric patch; that's what I call penetration. And that is what we are adopting here today. Students are not the same, and we need more paths to goals – more paths to diplomas and higher education. I am particularly pleased that this reform makes it much easier for adults to complete secondary education. Today, there are about 500,000 adults who have not completed, and we know that there are very few of them who are actually in training. A right of completion will make the way back to higher education much shorter, because they get their right back. In addition, there are points in the reform of a tool for real skills assessment, the right to second-class letters and the ability for adults to take on secondary education as short modules. It is precisely such measures that make it easier for adults to combine training with other responsibilities, family life and work. I want to notice just two things from this debate that have been preliminary. I think it is striking that the Workers' Party – which has really been following the track over the last few months when it comes to saying what they think about the subject and the hour-sharing – nevertheless criticises the government for wanting the same thing as they now say they will, namely to have an overall review later on, and to try again to doubt whether that government party is clear about, namely that there should not be a substantial cut in the common subjects. And then I'm not sure what the criticism really is, because now it seems like the Labour Party's criticism really is that we don't go any further, that it's wrong to say that we still want to have Norwegian, math and English as a subject in higher education. I believe again that it should be fundamental, precisely because the common subjects are still to have an important role in Norwegian secondary school. The second thing I've noticed is the debate about a letter of formal education as a student. I have to say that after the apprenticeship grant was stopped for very many years, we have increased it heavily, we have introduced demands in public tenders to accept apprentices, and there were record numbers who got apprenticeship before the pandemic. But then it's just that you have some students with maybe high absences, low grades – or you get recessions, as we've had it now under the pandemic, and that makes you have to have an emergency solution. I agree with the representative of Fagerås that it is an emergency solution, but I do not believe that it is an end in itself that the emergency solution should be the worst possible. I just think it is our political task – once we have an offer for these students – that this offer also has basic quality, because it deserves our students. I am very proud that the completion reform gets a majority here today, this is important and a great news for Norwegian high school and for those students who want a training that is a little more adapted to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e716	Training is the most important means of equalising inequality, and what we experience both in Norway and elsewhere is that inequality contributes to falling trust, and that increased inequality contributes to exclusion and polarisation. That is why it is so incredibly important that we have offensive training policies at all levels. I believe that we are making a significant contribution, even though the Labour Party wants to improve this further; we have taken that debate, and the proposals we have made. However, the goal of all training must be that each child and each student develop their talents. It doesn't always happen in today's school, especially primary school is very academic. There is a tendency to look down on everything that is practical and professional. So the status of the subjects in terms of practicality should be raised somehow. I don't always know how the best grips are. However, the apprenticeship system in Norway is quite unique. And it's actually our foremost competitive advantage that it helps train so competent and professionally strong professionals with an integrity that enables them to take on new knowledge and make decisions there and then and avoid asking up and down and down until they make a decision. However, the apprenticeship system can also be strengthened and further improved. In our society, very many of those who are business leaders – not only big business representatives, but also business leaders – have a letter at the bottom. These are within hotel and restaurant companies, and very many of the managers of craft companies are employees who initially have a letter at the bottom. How are we going to strengthen the system? My experience is that, in fact, the most important thing is to strengthen corporate social responsibility and involvement in school provision. For today, it is to a large extent the wishes of the students and the learning forces that really affect the school structure, and not necessarily where there are opportunities for learning places. So better responsibility that I think is absolutely crucial. So was it also this to develop better career paths, where the TAF model is completely unique. My colleague Sandberg was involved in internationalisation; giving apprentices opportunities to take part of training abroad is also crucial. Finally, I want to raise production schools. Because there are a lot of young people — and the most important investment is perhaps getting them into work and education. The production school at Hyssingen has been successful, but also the production school in Hardanger. For it takes the weakest and those who are most outside; those who need a good day’s offer – in a combination with boarding school – that takes care of the entire content. That is why I am very happy today that we have managed to get a majority to secure production schools further.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e727	For a health policy, it is tempting to look at the relationship between health and education. FHI has looked at this and has, among other things, found that men with higher education or higher education have a life expectancy of 6.4 years longer than men with primary education. For women, the difference is 5 years. The results from various studies show, for example: that in groups of short-term education there is a higher proportion of those reporting poor health than in groups of long-term education. We're talking about quality of life, which I also mentioned in my first post. These are muscle and skeletal disorders, and these are pulmonary diseases. There are considerable differences between educational groups in the number of first cases of acute myocardial infarction, showing a project from the period 1994–2009. Type 2 diabetes is more common in short-term groups than in longer-term groups. I mention this because now it has to be about getting people through high school. The way you've done it at Fäder High School, where you've raised the implementation rate from 62 p.m. with quite simple grips. Some eighty percent over a relatively short period of time — and this is well known by the Council of State, since she has been there. Today we met with the message that we need more health professionals, or health workers at all, and that the nurses now get up to NOK 25 000 in a bonus to work in the school vacation. This shows, not least — even since we know that we need an innumerable number of health professionals in the future towards 2030 — the ability to re-train to a healthcare profession. I see that as a great opportunity and as a freedom for those who may have turned to this subject, but not yet fully gained it. When it comes to learning all my life, I also mention that I speak from some experience. I completed a main subject 40 years old, after dropping out the day I thought I got the job I was going to have for the rest of my life. I have since – as a state suite – worked with historical method. For me, the subject of history is a sacred discipline, and the day that my party leader stands up with a claim to desavow this subject, then must be roads separated. But she has neither said that nor is she going to say that, no matter what her political opponents have to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e736	The opposition today has many important breakthroughs, and we in SV are very happy that we are decided to ensure flexible courses of education. It is also a major feature that trials are now to be carried out with mandatory transition courses for low-language pupils in order to complete secondary education. In addition, we have a majority for a grant scheme for practitioners and apprentices with special needs. There is still a great need for schemes to provide these young people with flexible training courses in combination with work. The practical letter system must be extended to all schools with vocational training programmes, and practical letter applicants must be given the opportunity to subsequently extend the letter of practical experience to full vocational or bachelor letters. In particular, the opposition gives us a majority in order to increase the financing of higher education equipment and a specific top-level funding of professional programmes with the need for particularly costly equipment. For vocational training to be relevant, it is important that students are provided with equipment that is up-to-date and that is equivalent to what they will meet in their apprenticeship and working life after completion of education. The government’s proposal for completion reform lacks something very central, namely the focus on students’ involvement both in school life and in learning. The students know what it's like to go to school, and each student in a school has something to contribute that's significant. Students have to influence their school days, it's the students who know best how they like to learn, and what needs to be done to make them feel good. A school that listens to the students is better adapted to the needs of the students and thus a better school to complete and pass. I am sincerely sorry for how the government was able to cause unrest when they presented their proposal for completion reform. In a time — a crisis — when students and employees in school have more than ever deserved us to stand together, it is a matter of concern. Students, teachers, school leaders, and all employees in school have been under almost inhuman pressure in recent years. It is very stressful and completely unnecessary to spread as much uncertainty and noise as the Minister of Knowledge has done. The students deserve politicians to listen to them. The same is true of those who work at school. We only find the good solutions by listening to the profession, to those who teach, and to those who learn. It's called trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e747	Higher education should give our young people a good start to adult life. Too many people don't complete secondary education, they lose valuable learning, and many struggles related to the labour market later as a consequence. It is therefore essential that we make the changes adopted by the Storting today in order to increase the rate of implementation for the young people of the future. The completion reform takes important offensive action and has many good measures to include more and to ensure that everyone is included. Although the new reform has many new and innovative measures, the debate around it has dealt to some extent with the place of the community in the field of study specialisation. We are pleased that the majority position is clear in the important place and role of the general professions in education, for the school should provide both education and education. From such a perspective as history, social sciences, natural sciences, geography and religion and ethics must still have a central place. Something else had been a betrayal of the growing generation. The Christian People's Party has always been clear that changes are needed in high school, with more emphasis on depression and freedom of choice. But a reform to which the Christian People’s Party was to participate also had to take care of the general education of the students. The Community institutions have and shall continue to have a central place in secondary education. I am pleased that we are delivering on today, because we need to be able to balance a reform that provides more depression and freedom of choice, and to continue to give young people the opportunity to learn in the society in which they live, in the world picture they are going to contribute and be and develop, and to know their cultural heritage. Because it's not like we're formed like humans in a vacuum. It's not like the school's only task is education. This is why it is so important that we recognise the school's important place in society and the school's central mandate to contribute to shaping the citizens of the future beyond the important task of disseminating knowledge. Today, we are adopting an offensive completion reform for high school, which gives young people more opportunities for in-depth learning and increased freedom of choice, while at the same time ensuring the importance and function of the community in the future high school. We are involved in creating a school that is better adapted to future skills needs and better adapted to future challenges and opportunities — but also a school that will create more motivation and more mastery students.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e764	I had actually planned to talk a little bit more widely about the profession, about the bets that have been made, and the bets that are in this completion reform, but I understand that I have to try again to give a real description of what is about apprentices, apprenticeships and offers in Vg3. I am afraid it does not help, because it seems that the ears are well closed, and as if you have not read the setting, but I will try. Because I'm actually getting upset about this, as the representative Fagerås said. There's a concern that I think is completely unnecessary, and that doesn't serve our professions well. I want to make it clear, and the Minister of Knowledge has also done so, and so do we in our position: Learning places are the main model. No one is trying in any way to undermine it. There has been a strong focus on learning places and on finding more places to learn in the last eight years, and it also mentions the need to continue this effort. It's not that the government or the parties here at Stortinget are trying to get a learning place guarantee, as the opposition parties claim in the setting that we are doing. No one has raised the issue, so there is no point in criticising it either. At the same time we read that the opposition parties say in the setting that it does not work with a learning place guarantee, but then we hear the representative Tvedt Solberg say on the speaker's chair here today that it is the jam solution. Talk about talking to two tongues. I agree that an important part to be able to get the learning places we need for the students we have is the right dimensioning. This is something both mentioned in the communication and to which we come back even more strongly when we are going to deal with the Training Act. This concerns the role of Y-indents, which must have a much stronger impact on the dimensioning of the study offer, but it also applies to the training offices. I notice that we get some criticism here today because we don't already fix the role of the training offices and how important they are, but just so it's clear: I'm a strong supporter of the training offices. They play a very important role in vocational training, and we come back to this in the Training Act. My position on this is that it should be enshrined both in the Training Act and that it should be a clearer role clarification – just as it has been said. But we can't get all the classrooms. It is not about extending the offer, as it says in the setting from the opposition parties, but about taking it by others. But it's our condemned duty – I hope it's allowed to say, I'm sorry – to make this offer better. It also recognizes the opposition parts in the setting, and that's exactly what we're doing. It's no longer supposed to be, the extension it's about is maybe to be able to give them more time, and it deserves students. Too many of these students need time. The aim of improved provision is closer cooperation with business, more out-of-date practice periods and better time, which can also allow more people to be provided to the apprenticeship during a better offer in Vg3. And now I hope you stop making a scare image, because they don't deserve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e775	The President will point out that ‘condemned duty’ is not a practice we use here in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e780	‘The reform of completion is simply good political craftsmanship. It takes the students seriously by proposing the right of completion and greater freedom of choice." These were not my words. It could have been, but it wasn't. These were the words of the head of the Student Organization, Edvard Botterli Ennæs, in Education New April 9. The representative Mona Fagerås spoke in his post very warmly that we must listen to the students. The students are probably the ones who have embraced this reform most and are positive to most of the measures we propose. What I have first and foremost realized that they have been critical of is that we are continuing the border of absenteeism, but there are both the students and my party outrun. Then the representative Fagerås tries to draw a picture that I am a government council that is overrun the sector. Well, it's to the extent that an opposition politician's privilege to label state councils, and we have to live with that, but I don't think the examples that the representative uses to substantiate this at all stand. Because in all the issues that the representative raises, we have just pulled the brake to listen to the sector. When it comes to math exams, there's been a lot of disagreement about the way it's going to be done. Then we said that now we've got another year as we canceled the exam this spring. That year we're going to use to involve the sector and further develop an exam that the professional community agrees on. Then we've listened to the sector, we've pulled the brake to listen to their input. The same applies to the admission system, i.e. freer school choices. We've had a proposal out at the hearing. That proposal was criticised by the county councils. Then we said that now we should sit down with the county councils and discuss what kind of arrangements we can make that will give us more freedom for the students, but at the same time room for local adaptations. Clearly, when you promote a question that many have strong opinions on, we get a debate. This concerns the debate on the common subjects. I believe, however, that a debate itself is not dangerous. I think it is more dangerous with politicians who are afraid to raise important debates. The Song Committee came up with a very clear setting in its NOU that there was a need for a review of the professional and hourly distribution in higher education. We followed that call, and what we propose in the Storing Communication, is an investigation of the professional and hourly distribution in a broad process in which all parties in the sector are allowed to participate. I think it is important that we involve teachers and professionals, but also the students when we are going to develop the sector. It is between us that we have proposals that not everyone absolutely supports. That's what politics is. I want to challenge the opposition on one thing. These 4,000 students who today don't have a place to learn – I think we all agree that several of them should have a place to learn, but what should be the offer for those who still don't get it? Is it supposed to be Nav, or are we gonna make sure we get a proper offer at school?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e799	I was afraid that the Council of State began with self-pity from the pulpit instead, which we are quite accustomed to from this government, but fortunately she corrected herself in. I would also like to remind you that there is still a large proportion of young people, at the lower end of a quarter, who do not complete and pass high school exams. It's a big common challenge, regardless of what view we're going to have on different things here. However, we in the Workers' Party note that the school is too poorly adapted to low background students, and that there must be extra effort here, that students need to be better prepared for study, that vocational training must meet a greater proportion of the needs of students and the labour market, and that training needs to be more adapted to students who need extra follow-up and support. If this is to be a reform of completion, it must mean that vocational training is equated with specialisation in studies and that schools must have a responsibility for follow-up even in apprenticeships. Today, when I'm out traveling and talking to high school, they say, when vg2 students are finished, our responsibility is also done. But then education isn't done. The education is not completed until the student is in possession of a letter of formal qualifications or a letter of formal recognition. Professional students should therefore be treated in the same way as other pupils. This is why the Workers' Party has proposed to strengthen the follow-up responsibility of schools for pupils throughout the training cycle, that we start with the first year of apprenticeship, and that the students are apprentices in a apprenticeship. With regard to the apprenticeship guarantee, I have to say that I was visiting Selbu secondary school earlier. They had over 80 pst. professional at the admission on 1 March. Why did they have it? The cooperation between school, local business and a multidisciplinary training office at the school provided a vocational training place for students. As a result, several applicants also come there. That's when you finish your education, that's when you become a tradesman. We need to see how the role of training offices is actually going to be in the future, but it is this interaction with county and school owners, local businesses and training offices and students that are important for this. The Labour Party wants us to have three apprentices per 1 000 inhabitants as a learning place guarantee. What do we actually need in the future? Yes, we need skilled workers in the field of child and youth work, in health care. In many ways, when we put things on offer, we demand that there be serious work, that there be a place for learning. This is fully possible through an apprenticeship guarantee that ensures education for young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e816	As a former educational researcher who has participated in the evaluation of several major educational reforms in Norway, I found it necessary to sign up to correct the representative Grimstad’s somewhat bombastic and unilateral analysis of Reform 94. Now, unfortunately, the representative has left the Chamber, but not least since the representative said he is concerned with historical knowledge: The NIFU Research Institute conducted follow-up research on Reform 94 over time. Let me quote from the final report of the NIFU's main project. It says: ‘Based on the analysis by the NIFU over four years, we believe that the reform has given young people better opportunities for training and as such has been successful.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e826	As indicated in the Committee’s position, the main actions of the Communication – in fact, also those proposed in the position where the Communication was not very concrete and incomplete. The centre party is pleased that several of our proposals are given a majority, lastly referred by Jorodd Asphjell here. The most eye-catching thing, however, is that the government parties have a great need to show disagreement with their own government. In the VG we were already able to read that the government parties, together with the Progress Party, were brilliantly pleased not to secure a majority of the government's idea of removing more compulsory subjects. The truth is that all opposition parties are opposed to this. The right hand side is also going out hard about this in the hall today. I believe that the mess around the future is the government itself that has created, even though the government parties are now trying to hook it on the opposition. I myself received a stream of enquiries from teachers who wondered if they were going to lose their job after that discharge. It is good that the government parties are now cleaning up. Speaking of what Sandberg mentions about internationalization, I would like to mention an example. The Gudbrandsdøle Dagningen writes today about Ola Stenumgaard, who chose a diploma in Germany in front of a bachelor at the UiA. The problem now is just a lack of funding for studies. The size still has a job to do. Then the Council of State asks about offers to those who don't get a place to learn. We all know that there is no simple answer here, but I believe that for example. both the dimensioning and the financing of the offer must be considered, and then there is a great responsibility of the county councils. I would also like to mention the right to re-qualification, because finally, education offers and qualification increase recognition in higher education. More diplomas and higher education will provide increased attention and excitement. I know this from among others. have succeeded in Switzerland, where mountain villages are tourist magnets winter time and grazing summer time. To the seventh and last: the most important big thing is going in for today, is a lifelong right to complete higher education. Unfortunately, the way youth and adult education have been practiced has also prevented people from completing their education in a few years' time. So it's going to cheer the Center Party for which it's also been asked here. There's no doubt about it, there's a total accumulation behind it. So it's next time to follow up this right of completion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e844	There has been an interesting debate to follow. It has sometimes felt like a big-time championship indignant from the bourgeois side. It's maybe because you're a little annoyed that you're going down in so many things. But one sheep rather enjoyed the things we stand together on, such as the right of completion, and rejoiced that the opposition is improving and clarifying some of the proposals in the reform. To the discussion on the common subjects: Let's just make it clear, it's the government itself and the Council of State sitting here, who was able to create the unrest and debate that has occurred. One can only remember the Political Quarter, where the representative Turid Kristensen told me that she had put her Pepsi Max in her throat, or VG a short time ago, which was just referred to, where the government parties went out and said that it was not cut in common, or NTB's announcement of «Full confusion about civil school unity». It is the government itself that has created this debate throughout the sector, caused great unrest, and it is very special that one uses this debate to try to blame the opposition, that we have created this unrest. We're good in opposition, but we're not that good. They have been able to create that turmoil and that uncertainty on their own. Unlike the government parties, we have listened to the debate and the recordings we have received from a whole sector, including from the teachers, and listened to the hearing that has been held. I am very pleased that in the last round the government parties of the Progress Party were pressured to clarify that it will not be the cuts in the common subjects. It was also obvious to hear the Council of State in the change of line, so now I am excited to see if the overall review of the trade and hour distribution that everyone wants will be without the leaders mentioned in the Storing Message. It's at least allowed to hope. Finally, with a diploma as a student, and that one is so indignant that we dare to call it to expand. Yes, I hope one listens to what the council itself said, because she now said from the pulpit that a person just wants to expand on this. The scheme proposed by the government is a system to go, extended, to all those young people – the thousands of young people, I think the Council of State said – who today do not have a place to learn. The question here is, what are we going to do about the right of learning? The government wants to use the present emergency solution as a larger main solution. It has been rejected by a single sector. It's not only the trade movement and the LO government is turning away from here, but also the NHO. The Workers' Party would rather want an apprenticeship guarantee, because we believe that the best training these young people receive to prepare for work is done on a company basis. That is why I am pleased that we once and for all cancel that arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e859	The introduction of Reform 94, which at the time gave all students the right to take up secondary education, was an important step in the educational revolution that has taken place in Norway in the last 30–40 years. It was a good and important reform, but it had some weaknesses. I think the idea that the Labour Party here is showing shows some of the reasons why that reform had its weaknesses. What you're doing is you're starting from some kind of ideal life, and then you're making an ideal race to suit everyone, instead of realizing that students have different needs and then you're making it easier for a school to take over. I think what Mr Tvedt Solberg said about it with an apprenticeship guarantee is a good example of that. I think all of us sitting here in the hall, sincerely want everyone who starts a course of study to have a lesson. But then it's been 30 years since Reform 94 that not everyone has had a place to learn. Fortunately, more and more people are learning. That means that the government's policy has worked. But does the representative Tvedt Solberg really believe, with his hand on his heart, that we're going to get to the point where absolutely everyone who starts a vocational education is going to have a place to learn? If he thinks so, at least I'm very curious to hear how he's intended to do it. We have increased the apprentice grant. We have strengthened our cooperation with the parties. In the communication, we propose that we strengthen the apprenticeship clause, which means that making demands on learners in public tenders is an instrument that is being used even more. I mean, for example. creating a public sector, making municipalities set up even more to provide apprenticeships is also an important way to go. I think there's going to be fluctuations in all industries. It's going to be students who aren't as attractive to all companies, and the question that we're left with then is, what are we going to offer those students? If we doubt such a utopia that everyone is going to have a place to study, these students are going to end up on the Nav or with the so-called emergency solution, as many people have referred to it as Vg3 in school. I think these students, too, will have a real opportunity to complete secondary education, and therefore I wanted to develop a better offer in close cooperation with the parties, which means that all students who start in higher education, whether they start in a professional or preparatory course, have a real opportunity to complete. That, I believe, is the fundamental difference between the implementation reform, from which we have now abandoned, and Reform 94. It gives a real opportunity and a real right to complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e870	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e875	It was just to be lacking that I didn't answer that state council's question about the place of learning. I really think the question in itself is quite revealing where the government itself lies here. Clearly, the question is also about faith. Yes, I have faith in our apprenticeship guarantee, I have faith that the students who choose the profession will have a place in the company, and the fact that the council responsible for getting to this calls it a utopia shows that the government really didn't want to do this. The government's proposals are described by a global sector as a shortcut, as the easiest way to go. Our proposal for an apprenticeship guarantee is not the simplest, but it is a guarantee that we will do everything we can to achieve this politically. My county, Rogaland, works hard on this every year and is best in the country to get it done. Not much is going to happen until we can do it for everyone. So I have faith, but it's a shame to see that the government doesn't have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e886	We probably haven't been so indignant when we've been standing here, because I'm really very happy today that we're getting a completion reform that has such broad support for the Storting, but what may have seemed like an indignification is an attempt to get the opposition parties to actually listen and understand what's written, even though I understand that it's a little boring sometimes not to get the reality description you want. Vg3 in school I think is something we're going to discuss in the future. It is nice that the representative Tvedt Solberg has strong faith in an apprenticeship guarantee, but a State apprenticeship guarantee does not work. That's what the government said, Stoltenberg, and there's no reason to start resuming from the drawer. However, as the representative Asphjell was concerned: there are many places in the country where regional apprenticeship guarantees are based on volunteering and are concluded between industry and the county municipality based on the needs of the business community. As in the representative Tvedt Solberg's home country, Rogaland, there they are very capable of listening to business when they dimension their study offer. That's the way to go, not through the fact that we're here at Stortinget to adopt an apprenticeship guarantee. I am very pleased that the government will continue to work on this. It's a reform that's going to work from a decade's perspective, and I'm very concerned that it's going to be the current government that gets the pleasure of starting to implement it after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e895	I'm not going to help extend the debate that much, I'm just going to correct a statement from Tvedt Solberg, who claimed that there was a whole sector that was opposed to further developing a better offer for those who have to complete the letter at school. That's not right. This is a proposal from the Song Committee. They suggested it. So the professional recommendation we have received from a very thorough NOU is that we should further develop the offer for those students who don't have a place to study – not because we don't have to work for even more people, but because we realize that there will always be a situation where there are some students who need that offer. I notice that the opposition quite often makes it like there's a whole sector behind them. Well, fortunately, the education sector is much more diverse than the opposition wants to show. Fortunately, there are strong voices that represent different points of view. It's the President: I'm very pleased, because I think that's actually the best way to develop Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e902	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e907	We're soon out of speaking time in the opposition, so I'm not going to talk much more, but some comments finally from me. I mean the counties and businesses are much more central in conveying all these apprentices than what emerges from the debate here today, so we could talk even more about the county council and the measures and opportunities they have to follow up the students and realize these great ambitions that we have here in the Stortinget. It is also about equipment, professionals and many, many different elements. Dissemination could also be a reason for supporting an exchange model — that several had the hammer in their hands only on the day on the timber line because they have better assumptions to get through the rest of secondary education. I would also like to mention briefly Hadeland higher education, they have had 100 pst. the dissemination of apprentices for several years. It's not about all the berries in the bag being equally ripe, but about being able to equip these students with tools to meet their apprenticeships in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e914	The representative, Jorod Asphjell, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e919	I heard the council say something about the opposition using to say that we have a group behind us. You can't say that the Council of State has. She had neither a collective professional background nor a collective government behind her when she introduced this reform and had to turn on several essential points. It says something about how well this is worked through. As far as apprenticeships and apprentices are concerned, it is an ambition to have an apprenticeship guarantee, something we have good experience with in other counties, and which should in itself imply that the government can add up to a proposal that contributes to this, instead of adding up to an offer with a school degree, which is not sought out in business, and which the students do not want. Neither do the schools want them to, they want the students to get into the business, get good professional updates and training outside the company, which ensures that they receive a letter and get a job afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e926	I am very pleased today that we are getting through a completion reform that is really taking a historic step from Reform 94, in the form of increased freedom of choice, increased quality and increased implementation in higher education. It's worth saying at the bottom of the debate, lifting your eyes a little bit and smiling a little bit, from the extreme right to the extreme left, because we're doing it here today. We're in on a historic promise, and I'm very happy to have it with me. It's important that we take on board in this change of words that even if you as a politician try as hard as you can to create systems that see the individual, there's now a lot of different assumptions in School-Norway about how to manage to teach apprentices. It is not as easy to get an apprenticeship as a barber's apprentice in Burfjord, where the barber's salon is open on Tuesday and Thursday. Obviously, then you have to be both creative in thinking about the training line and thinking creatively about how to transfer apprenticeship places. Finally, there will be some students who don't get apprenticeship space. The question then has to be: would it be more attractive for a county municipality to offer one year of Vg3 in school, as someone is doing today, or would it be more attractive for us from the main hall here to have more stringent requirements for quality and content? This would have meant that it would have been more expensive for the county municipalities to implement. It would be more extensive and therefore not particularly attractive. The easiest thing is to convey the apprentice. That's the main model, and what we've been saying all along. That is why I think that the debate that has been going on here now on how we are going to manage to ensure a good deal, that valve, to those we are not able to communicate, and that we have seen over very many years – regardless of the guarantees of learning places that we have tried to implement in red-green counties, where we also see that not everyone is getting an apprenticeship, so what kind of guarantee it really is is getting the opposition to answer – in that recognition we have to think about a reform that sees each student, and how we ensure good quality and not least implementation, so that what today is almost like an initial education, that is, higher education, is something that everyone can participate in. I think that must be an important thing to bring with it in the further work. I think it is important to stress that there is a broad consensus among the civil parties that we should now look forward to. We're going to have a review of the trade and hour distribution, and no one's been in charge of extensive cuts. On the other hand, I see that the opposition criticises the leaders that have been laid down. Then you just have to follow that logic and say, OK, but then the opposition really wants to cut everything out of common science? The debate is over now, so I have to stop saying those words.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e938	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Education and Research Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3 and 4 are treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e969	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e976	As the rapporteur for both case 3 and case 4, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on both opinions. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has also delivered an opinion on both issues and is committed to the suspension of the Education and Research Committee. In both cases, the recommendation of an overall committee is promoted. In the case of Prop. 172 S, on Erasmus+, I would like to make it clear that the regulation was formally adopted by the EU on 18 May, i.e. too late for it to be made visible in the vote. The Committee notes in the configuration of Erasmus+’s main objectives, mid-term evaluation and Norway’s participation in the European education, training, youth and sport programmes since the 1990s. The Committee has noted that the government emphasises Erasmus+ as an important means of achieving national ambitions for study stays abroad, as expressed in the Student Mobility Storing Communication. In the case of Prop. 175 S, on Horizon Europe, as the rapporteur, I am promoting a loose proposal on behalf of the entire committee. This is because the Ministry of Finance discovered a small number of errors in the proposal for a decision. In consultation with the Ministry and the Committee, we shall rectify this proposal. The Regulation on Horizon Europe was adopted by the EU on 27 April. The Committee points out that Norway has been participating in the EU Framework Programmes for Research and Technological Development since the 1980s. The Committee considers that Norwegian participation in the EU Framework Programme Horizon Europe, which continues Horizon 2020, will contribute to providing Norwegian research environments and businesses with access to the necessary knowledge and networks of international researchers and institutions. Horizontal Europe is made up of three main components: excellent research, global challenges and competitive European business innovative in Europe. The Committee considers that Horizon Europe is in line with national research priorities, such as increased quality in research and innovation, increased value creation and knowledge to meet major societal challenges. Finally, the Committee stresses that participation in these types of programmes is of great importance for Norwegian research.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e991	At that time, the representative Nina Sandberg addressed the resolution of the proposal of the Education and Research Committee on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e996	I am very pleased that a Joint Committee continues to support the European Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, Horizon Europe. In Horizon Europe, five ‘missions’ are set down with the aim of delivering solutions to key challenges in Europe. Cancer is one of these challenges. The aim of the ‘cancer mission’ is to have saved three million people by 2030, improved understanding of cancer and optimised diagnosis and treatment. We have a unique opportunity to be an active participant in Horizon Europe and contribute to the ‘cancer mission’. We have strong cancer research environments in Norway that can become even stronger through public-private cooperation. Despite great progress in breaking the genetic code and the biological basis for cancer development, we still know too little. There are almost daily breakthroughs in cancer research worldwide, and technological development is constantly giving us new tools in the fight against cancer. But in order to fully exploit our advantage with strong cancer and health records, we should cooperate with other countries in the same position and share data on molecular cancer profiles for the benefit of patients. Nordic and European cooperation can provide a great opportunity to realise the potential that lies in more wise minds and more and better infrastructure. It will require investment in high-risk, but also with high potential, innovative research. The new action plan against cancer of the European Convention focuses on prevention, early detection, diagnosis and treatment, and on the quality of life of cancer patients and survivors. The plan also includes a knowledge centre and a cancer register. Sharing of health data shall provide patients with access to prevention and treatment in other EU countries. The aim is to improve access to innovative cancer diagnosis and treatment. New models and technologies shall also be developed to investigate the interactions between cancer and host to identify persons at high risk of developing common cancers. In Norway, we are facing a wide range of precision medicine, with important targets being molecular cancer diagnostics and individual experimental treatment for those who need it. It'll take a lot. National cancer strategy states that the Register of Cancer should be further developed and that related national quality registers for several cancers should be established. The number of clinical studies shall be developed. We should use our participation in Horizon Europe to strengthen cooperation with our neighbouring countries in order to really achieve the goal of delivering precision medicine in cancer. We don't have to invent all the powder alone. We should use all available resources together with our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1013	I am very pleased that the Committee unanimously concludes on the importance of Norwegian participation in Horizon Europe and Erasmus+. This is important because international research and education cooperation is crucial for addressing both large and small challenges. I also thank you for considering the matter before the decisions of the EEA Committee are available. This will enable us to continue the close cooperation we have had with the EU on research and education since the 1980s, and Norwegian players can participate from the first calls in the programmes. Both Norway and the EU are heavily committed to research, innovation, education and youth and consider it a good investment in the future. International cooperation through Horizon Europe and Erasmus+ is essential for achieving national knowledge and youth policy objectives. European cooperation contributes to higher quality in education and research, more excellent and innovative environments and intercultural competences, and we gain access to new knowledge, networks and infrastructure. European cooperation also plays a major role in policy development in Norway and allows us to influence European policy development. Participation in Horizon Europe and Erasmus+ is also of great importance for society and the economy. Cooperation on education, research and innovation is central to promoting sustainable economic growth, green and digital transformation, new jobs and the reconstruction of the economy following the covid-19 pandemic. We cannot meet the major societal challenges alone. Cooperation through Horizon Europe and Erasmus+ provides us with knowledge and preparedness we need to address acute crises, such as the current health crisis, and to address long-term challenges such as climate change and social inclusion and diversity. It is important that we make good use of the opportunities of Horizon Europe and Erasmus+. The Government will therefore present two strategies for Norwegian participation in European research and innovation cooperation and Norwegian participation in European education, training, youth and sport cooperation, respectively. The strategy shall set out objectives and priorities for the period up to 2027. To reach the high ambitions of the government, researchers, students, businesses and others need to seize the opportunities provided by the programmes. I'm glad to see that there's a great commitment to participate. We have established good national support services to mobilise and assist relevant participants, which, together with the authorities, facilitate strong Norwegian participation. The results of cooperation through Horizon Europe and Erasmus+ will benefit all of Norway, in the form of increased quality in research, high quality and relevant education, more innovative environments, better public services and more competitive business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1028	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1045	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows:5 minutes to the President, 3 minutes to each of the other party groups and 3 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The first speaker is Dag Terje Andersen, rapporteur on the matter, but the President cannot see that he is present. Nils T. Bjørke will have the floor first.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1054	Then I'll get started. Of course, we follow up on the decision of the Storting, and the Council of State often hears it say in the debates here in the Chamber. In the management of the invitation and exit decisions, we discovered that this is not the case. We have a routine where it is the Control and Constitutional Committee that finally decides whether or not appeal decisions are well enough followed up by the government. This procedure is not implemented in practice. It's serious for the relationship between big business and government. In this setting, it indicates that several departments have too poor procedures for following up requests from years back. In the notice, the Government stated that letters from the departments that the Trade Union Committee had no comments on the receipt of the decisions in the budget proposals in cases where the minority in the Committee had comments on the follow-up from the government. These are wrong statements that should not appear. An example of a lack of follow-up can be found in the case of the financial tax. On 11 June 2018, the Government of Stortinget asked to return to Stortinget in an appropriate way, most recently in connection with the State budget for 2020, with proposals for a revenue-neutral conversion of the financial tax and the removal of an increased employer charge. The State budget for 2020 has been submitted, but the Stortinget has not yet received a proposal on the conversion of the financial tax. The decision is not then followed up. In the autumn of 2019, the government presented a statement that the conversion should last until the end of the year. the process towards ESA linked to a level playing field with public and private enterprises has been clarified. This is not to follow up on a clear decision, but to postpone the follow-up. Similarly, we have seen that the government in the follow-up to the call for proposals related to crisis measures in the pandemic has come back to the Stortinget with proposals. It has our insomnia in the Stortingen if the proposals have our good enough. One example of this is a decision of 19 March 2020, when the Stortinget asked the government to secure hospitals sufficient resources to plan the meeting with the coronary pandemic and to strengthen intensive capacity. The decision is followed up by means and training, but the number of intensive sites has not increased during the pandemic. Follow-up to the Storting's call for proposals is about important areas of society where the Storting makes its own priorities. The Government then has an obligation to implement the decisions. The government is expected to read the text of these decisions carefully and do its best to implement them in line with the statements of the Storing. It is not the government's job to observe decisions. That's what the Control and Constitutional Committee is doing. If the government believes that the majority of Stortinget is no longer behind a decision, the government must put forward a case with proposals to lift the decision. I expect the departments now have good procedures for this, so we don't have to review this criticism in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1071	It's all right that the Center Party got the word before me. That's how this time, as we've had the last few times, we have a lot of requests for treatment. I want to start with – not thanking the case rapporteur, as many people do from this pulpit, but by thanking Marianne Seip and Thomas Dam, who have done an amazing job with all the details contained in this setting. There are, as I said, many request decisions that are mentioned in this setting. This may be due to several things, but in the Harberg Committee, we have discussed the situation with the dramatic increase that has been the last few years in the number of requests decisions in the Stortinget. I must stress that it is not only the opposition that has imposed a request decision on the government, but there are also many from the government and their negotiations, among others. to get their budgets through in the Storting. This time it is also marked that there has been considerable agreement on some request decisions relating to the pandemic and its follow-up. However, there is reason to note that there is too little follow-up to government decision-making. Without going into detail on each individual, there are a total of 567 request decisions, and there are 279 that have not been completed, i.e. not followed up. What's interesting to see is that there are some departments going on again. It is not accidental that the Minister of Health is here. The Ministry of Health is a department which, let me say, is subject to many request decisions. Maybe we should think about that in Stortinget. It's not like we need one request decision per part of the body. On the other hand, the follow-up is also bad in the Ministry of Health. The proposal refers to 111 request decisions, and 62 have not been completed. It is also worth noting that in the Ministry of Climate and Environment there are more than half, 29 out of 51 request decisions, not followed up. It's serious. It is serious because the decision of the Storting is not taken seriously, but we also acknowledge, as I said, that it is serious that there are so many requests that the power of them towards the government may be reduced. In addition to the fact that there are many request decisions in the last year, we have request decisions all the way back to 2012/2013 that have not yet been followed up. There's a reason to criticize it. I started by thanking those who have really done the big job of getting this setting out. It's interesting to read, but maybe it's hard to read, because there's a lot of decisions. We have referred to them as there is something special about, and naturally not all of the request decisions. But then I would like to point out that I hope it is the last time we handle this message at this time. For one of the recommendations of the Harberg Committee, the government in place at any time for the future should present this message at the same time as the deposit proposal is presented, because of the fact that requests decisions are referred to in each trade proposition. It would make it much more transparent to deal with these matters at the same time, because now a large part of the job is to cross the various technical proposals and messages, which come a few months later, and not least to check which request decisions have been checked out in the meantime. It makes the image very complicated, so I really hope that the Storting decides in the next period for such treatment. That, I think, would be an advantage for the government, it would be an advantage for the Storting's overview of government relations, and that would not least make the trade committees more directly, actively involved in the follow-up to the request decisions. Because it's right, as the representative Bjørke said, it's today, and it's still going to be, the Control and Constitutional Committee that finally checks them out.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1090	I would also like to start by thanking the chairman of the committee, who is also the case rapporteur, and the secretariat for a very comprehensive and important matter. The importance of checking the Storting's request decision and the government's follow-up of it says itself, so I'm not going to spend any special time on it today. What I'm going to mention is some of the slightly more unfortunate practices we've seen in the case this year, but also in previous years. It's e.g. it is worth mentioning that the government is proposing to send out proposals that have been successfully followed up elsewhere than in this message, without being said in this message, which makes the work of the Storting difficult. We also see that the government in this communication says that there are no comments from the expert committees, but when the control committee goes into it and checks it, we see that there are examples that there are comments from minorities, but also from the majority, in the committee, which has sometimes led the government to mention it as comments from the majority of the population – I have recorded that some departments are using it. It is difficult to deal with decisions and their follow-up. We also see examples of the fact that, in the context of the examination of budgetary proposals, the Committee initially writes in its observations that there will be no comments on this, because that verification is carried out in this case. Nevertheless, the departments refer to the absence of comments from a trade committee, as part of their reasoning on why proposals are being proposed, when it appears in this case that both the minority and the majority of the trade committee concerned disagree with the proposal for recognition when we deal with this matter. That's not good. This makes the control work of the Storting on such an important theme unnecessarily difficult. And then one last example, which I've been hanging around a little bit in dealing with this case. This is a very specific request decision followed by the Ministry of Culture, where the Stortinget asked the government to introduce DNA blocking of the websites of illegal gambling companies. That proposal has not been proposed to be queried, but the government says about the follow-up, something I've been very aware of, namely that the Ministry of Culture has introduced DNS alerts and will later assess whether it will do more interventional measures such as DNA blocking at a later stage. It is not to follow up the Storting's request. When the Storting's request is so clear in the wording, there is a reason for that, and we would prefer to see the government follow up on the wording that has been chosen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1101	Let me first assure the Norwegian Government that the Ministry of Justice and Defence takes seriously the follow-up to the request decision. In the field of the Ministry of Justice and Defence, there are many request decisions. The number of request decisions has increased significantly in recent years and many are resource-intensive to follow up. Security and legal certainty for the citizens and the country are fundamental concerns that of course I and the ministry have to take care of. That is why I understand that Stortinget is interested in the field of justice and preparedness, and I also have great respect for the fact that the Stortinget instructs the government to follow up matters and investigations in areas that the Stortinget considers particularly important. There are several requests decisions which have not been sufficiently validated or are still under follow-up in my department. I see that it is criticised that it is too long to follow up some requests. Of course, it is a criticism that I take seriously. It is important that the various request decisions are followed up as quickly as possible and that the Storting get good feedback on the follow-up as soon as possible. Some request decisions may be complicated to follow up. It is important to meet requirements for, inter alia, investigation and process. In many cases, proposals for the follow-up of decisions need to be consulted, and in the consultation round, new and important elements may emerge which will allow the further follow-up to take longer than foreseen. That is also the case, and I would like to mention that there has been a significant reduction in the number of non-explained requests in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. This year it's 27, last year it was 40, and the year before it was 67. The ministry has received a large number of new requests decisions in the current downgrading session, and it may be demanding to follow up the sum of this, but we're doing the best we can. In the government's proposal for the 2022 government budget, we will come back to the follow-up to the new request decisions and individual earlier request decisions that have not yet been queried.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1116	The Government conscientiously follows up the request decisions of the Storting and has a high level of implementation. The implementation rate is also related to how the Storting chooses to interpret the room for out-of-date decisions. After examining the budget proposal, the main message states that there are 280 decisions in which the reporting has not been completed, which amount to less than 15 pst. of the request decisions with effect from the 2012–2013 session. This implies a reduction of 28 decisions compared to the corresponding figures last year, despite a significant growth in new decisions. Only in the budget proposal of the Ministry of Health and Health is the request decision 111. Last year's report referred to 123 request decisions. The significant number of decisions in themselves may also lead to shifts in resource use from other priority areas. Some examples of requests decisions in the area of the Ministry of Health and Welfare that involve major investigations are complaints, etc., e.g. with an investigation into the public/ideal operation of the air ambulance service, the investigation of base structures and the submission of a call for proposals on prehospital services. This illustrates how the follow-up to the decisions encroaches on significant capacity in the ministries. In its statement, the Committee points out that the year’s reporting on the decision-making process largely responds well to the follow-up, but at the same time notes that in several departments, there appears to be too poor procedures to follow up and endorse requests decisions dating back several years. Furthermore, the Committee also stresses the obligation of the Council of State to follow up the decision of the Grand Duchy and considers that the ministry must follow up faster and clearer than today. I would like to make a few comments on this criticism. Many of the decisions require substantial time for implementation, and the government assumes that the investigative and administrative instructions must be complied with, and that matters should be investigated and consulted in the usual way, and it has also been established in the past by the Committee. It is therefore also natural and necessary that some decisions will follow-up over several years. It is also the case that a large number of decisions, as we have seen in recent years, in themselves mean that follow-up can take longer. It is a challenge that some of the request decisions ask for a concrete solution or use of the instrument without having been investigated. This raises a problem related to the relationship between the request decision and the investigation file, the economic impact of the request decision and the requirements of the budgetary procedures. In summary, there are many reasons why there are still many decisions that have not been followed up, and one of the main reasons is, of course, the number of new decisions and the time it takes to follow up the various decisions. The government has used considerable resources to improve reporting to the Storting regarding the request decisions and the budget proposal now provides a full list of remaining decisions, with a clear feedback on further process.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1137	I would like to refer to a request decision that the Stortinget has taken in the past, which is in fact a unanimous decision in the Stortinget on the conversion of the financial tax. That decision, I record that the government believes has been followed up, because you need to have a process up against ESA. But after that nothing new has happened from the government towards Stortinget. It is now more than three years since an overall increase asked for a change in the financial tax regime that affects not least many small savings banks around Norway by providing an additional employer tax on the financial tax. After, among other things, The centre party had argued over time that there was a need to change the financial tax, concluded a unanimous increase to ask the government to do so. Then the government reported back afterwards that there was an ongoing process against the EU, which required more time, and after that, as I said, the Stortinget has not been presented with any change. The fact that it was only concluded that the decision has been followed up, because it has been said to Stortingen that there is a further process, without the matter having been finally resolved, we believe that the Central Party is clearly inadequate to follow up that request decision. What is crucial, of course, is that the decision is followed up by material changes that actually change the financial tax, so that it can help to give a better daily life to small savings banks around Norway. Therefore, I would like to make an absolute request that the request decision with which an aggregate increase has previously been made be actually followed up, and that the comment in the case be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1146	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 6 and 7 are treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1177	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President, 3 minutes to each of the other party groups and 3 minutes to the members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1184	I would like to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee on these matters. We're now dealing with two pieces. One is the annual report of the Civil Ombudsman for 2020, and the other is the annual report of the Civil Ombudsman’s torture prevention unit and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment. All the Committee's comments on both issues are completely unanimous, and I am so obviously very pleased with that. First, the Committee stresses the particular importance of the role of the Civil Ombudsman for individual citizens and for society as a whole – as a guarantee of legal certainty for individuals in the meeting with the administration and as a contribution to improving administration at large. Here I would like to mention that the Ombudsman in the Communication for 2020 has set up the management of the Civil Ombudsman as a separate theme, and that the Committee highlights the importance of follow-up of the opinion of the Civil Ombudsman, as these have been thoroughly prepared opinions made to represent the citizens with a mandate from the Stortinget. The lack of follow-up over time could weaken the Ombudsman’s mandate and role, so the Committee expresses the importance of the clear adherence of the administration to the Ombudsman’s opinions. I would like to stress this from the pulpit and, for my own account, add that it is noted which parts of the administration seem to have the habit of not following the Ombudsman's statements more often than other parts of the administration. Last year, the Civil Ombudsman received a record 4 009 complaints. Of course, there is nothing positive in itself that several complaints, but in the context it is still a good sign because the Ombudsman has worked systematically to make the Civil Ombudsman more familiar and accessible to people. Among other things. they met in 2020 with a number of stakeholder organisations, student associations, the Association of Lawyers and the Press Public Service Committee. This work has been positive for several years now, and the increase in the number of cases shows that work is bearing fruit. In the annual report last year, the Ombudsman sets out a number of specific themes, including: consideration of the best interests of the child in the case of schooling, good management practices and studies of dispensations in the beach area. I'll say a little about the latter now. The size has established a general ban on construction in the beach zone because access to the sea is an important good. The Ombudsman has initiated, on his own initiative, a major systematic examination of the municipal decision granting a derogation for the inclusion of measures in the coastal zone. It appreciates the Committee and the study shows that overall there are major gaps in the dispensation practices in the coastal zone of the municipalities that have been the subject of the study. The Ombudsman finds that, among other things: a large number of exemptions are granted and poor assessments are made. The Committee takes note of the findings and supports the recommendations made by the Civil Ombudsman. Finally, the annual report of the prevention unit against torture and other degrading treatment: in 2020, the Civil Ombudsman’s Prevention Unit carried out visits to child protection institutions, mental health for children and young people, nursing homes and housing for people with developmental disabilities — a total of ten visits during a demanding year. The Committee takes note of and supports the follow-up, recommendations and results of these visits by the Ombudsman. The prevention unit has responded to the pandemic and shows in the annual report that they have had extensive communication with both national and international partners. The prevention unit launched its own website, and a larger survey of prison conditions was carried out under the pandemic. That's good and important. In particular, this year’s Communication highlights the issues of children’s rights in mental health protection and youth living alone with adults at child protection institutions. So briefly about the latter: the prevention unit has carried out 21 visits to child protection institutions since 2016, and the Committee greatly appreciates the priority given by the prevention unit to this area and considers attention to be important there. So the unit in this year's report points to situations where children live alone with adults at child protection institutions. Then it is important to say that children are not to be isolated. Living alone can challenge the legal certainty of children. Therefore, the Committee shares the concerns of the prevention unit and assumes that this is followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1205	I would like to begin by agreeing fully with the rapporteur's examination of the matter. This is the last time we've dealt with a message from the Civil Ombudsman. Next year, there's a message from the Civil Service Officer. We just got a new law, and I congratulate the Civil Protection Officer on that. One of the discussions in connection with it, and the only point on which there was a disagreement, was the question of the civil officer's free access. Let me stress what was the basic idea of the Harberg Committee with regard to all the bodies of the Storting that oversee the government, and to the extent that the Storting's own control activities, that it must be the inspector who defines the need for transparency, not the controller. At least from our side, the Civil Ombudsman will have full coverage to continue the offensive line the Civil Ombudsman has had, and – as I said in that connection – as a sort of jewel in the democratic crown of Norway. Because it is so important that we have the body that really takes care of the individual's concerns about the power that the State has, or the administrative apparatus that the State has. That's why it's fun, simply, to read where it says about things that are arranged during the Civil Ombudsman's proceedings. For the best that can happen, when offices get questions from the Civil Service Officer, they think again and perhaps solve the matter the way it should have been initially resolved. When considering the cases used as examples there, everything from tax fixing and refusal of care allowance to authorisation for the modification of food fish farms applies. So there is a very wide range of issues in which we have the Civil Service Officer who takes the case when some citizens – in many cases rightly – have felt that they have been given e.g.. an incorrect administrative decision. There are also good examples of administration complying with the Civil Ombudsman's opinion, and that's good. So, in the last few minutes, short of what's going on about the monitoring unit, that one should take care of human rights and prevent torture and other cruel inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment in the event of detention. Also in that document there is a lot of interesting reading. It is reassuring to see that in a pandemic year, the Civilian officer has been able to make a number of visits and references that take care of those who are perhaps the most vulnerable in society, and their interests. It is secured by the work of the Civil Ombudsman – now the Civil Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1218	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good cooperation. The Civil Ombudsman has an important function in our society. In the Annual Report we read that the Civil Ombudsman received and processed 4,09 complaints in 2020, and that is a new record. So, despite a large increase in the number of cases, the processing time has fallen, and that's very good. As the rapporteur explained, the Ombudsman has been concerned about some of the issues in the report. This applies, inter alia, to: dispensations in the beach zone, where, unfortunately, there are often major gaps in the dispensation practices. Another theme is the exchange of students, where the Ombudsman points out that it is important that the best care should be taken of the child in applications and treatment. The last year has also been a different year for the Civil Ombudsman. The decision was taken on 24 March last year by the so-called Korona Act, and the Civil Ombudsman has checked the use and follow-up of the law by initiating investigations on his own initiative and handling complaints. The Ombudsman has played an important role as an inspector of the follow-up of the law by the administration and its consequences for citizens in meeting the administration. Human rights work is an important part of the Civil Ombudsman's responsibilities. In 2013, Norway decided to accede to the Additional Protocol to the United Nations Convention on Torture, and a Prevention Unit was established in the Civil Ombudsman to ensure that Norway complies with its obligations. An open consultation was held in 2020 on the Special Notice of the Civil Ombudsman to the United Kingdom on isolation and the lack of human contact in Norwegian prisons. Several times, the Norwegian authorities have received international criticism of the use of isolation in prison. In particular, prisoners with mental health challenges are involved. Having contact with other people is one of the most basic human needs and is a prerequisite for good mental health. This also applies to people in prison. Both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health were clear in the hearing that they took the Civil Ombudsman's message very seriously. Reducing the use of isolation in prisons is a high priority and, according to the prevention unit, the open consultation on isolation in Norwegian prisons was an important milestone in limiting isolation in Norwegian prisons. That's good. The pandemic and the anti-infection measures have affected all of us, but especially those who live in different institutions. Many have experienced a more restricted everyday life with more isolation and more solitude. In this year’s report, children’s rights in mental health protection and youth in particular exist alone with adults at child protection institutions, which have been raised. The report states that the legal certainty of children admitted to mental health protection should be strengthened. When children are committed to institution against their will, it places restrictions on freedom and the ability to decide things for themselves. The opinions of children shall be weighted according to age and maturity. The Ombudsman’s findings refer to examples of places and activities that have succeeded in providing treatment to children and young people who enjoy fundamental rights, but there are also examples of the opposite. It is positive that the institutions and sites that have visited follow up the recommendations that come in a thorough manner. It shows how important this ombudsman role is.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1237	First, I would like to thank the case spokesman and put myself fully behind what he said in his article. The annual report to the Civilo Ombudsman, which has now been Civilombödet, shows us the benefits of Norway's having a civil office since 1962. The Committee of the Regions is responsible for protecting the rights of individuals in the meeting with a highly professional administration. The task of the Civil Service Ombudsman is to be the voice of the individual so that his/her view of the administration is not too strong or untimely. The annual message shows us all the areas where this task is important, in a wide range of things, such as child protection, the right of use by law, the individual's meeting with Nav and many things about publicity and transparency. This is an important area of society in which the administration is to take care of the individual and managed laws as laid down by the Storting. I would particularly like to highlight what the Civil Code in the message says about good administration: ‘Good governance is a set of standards that require management to act in the meeting with citizens.’ Civil society in many cases has over the years highlighted the need for administration to act in a factual, polite and prudent way in the meeting with people. The requirements for good administration mean that the administration must recognise any errors and regret them. When government acts in line with good administration, people get a sense that public services are for them. I am therefore pleased that the Civil Service Ombudsman stressed this in control. I'd like to congratulate Mr. Civilombodet on the ability to keep the business up through the pandemic. Physical visits to closed establishments have been difficult for the prevention unit. Nevertheless, we have received good reports of isolation in prisons and children in closed child protection institutions. The prevention unit points out that we do not have enough legislation to protect the rights of children in mental health protection. When we've all been connected to ourselves for a long time now, it can be easy to forget those who are connected against their will. The efforts of the civil society community contribute to ensuring that they are not forgotten. I would like to thank the Committee on Civil Liberties for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1255	In the four years I have been a representative, I have had a great interest in reading the annual reports from the Civil Ombudsman, and in a confession I am very happy to have been in the selection that is now killing this gender-determined title. Many people know about the Civil Service Ombudsman, but there are also many who do not know what the Ombudsman is doing. In this way, the annual report is very important, because it explains and deepens the Ombudsman’s field of work, in particular with regard to the autonomous initiative taken regularly by the Ombudsman. Was there anyone who said that this is difficult reading? I don't think so. It is well presented – and illustrated, for that matter. The results of the Ombudsman's discussions are coming. In the 2017 Annual Report, the Ombudsman had a reference to the problematic aspects of withdrawal of driving licences in reporting on drug challenges, without the victim being taken for drunk driving. In the treatment of the two-day drug reform, this is addressed here in the Chamber. In this year’s — that is, last year’s — report, I have been particularly involved in the study of exemptions from the Law’s ban on building in the hundred metre belt. The survey covered the municipalities Mandal, Kragerø and Askøy. I myself would have proposed my own municipality, not least because there is a heated debate in the local community in Fäder, which is heavily pressured by resource-intensive actors. However, the findings of the Civil Ombudsman are equally valid in Fäder – the largest island municipality in the country, where all the land is not mainland, and which is within short legal and architectural distances to the capital. It expands, is built on terraces, garages are built, huge lawns are added and planted, thus undermining the rights of all persons. I find particular reason to draw up the findings that have been made. Many exemptions are granted for actions in the coastal zone – 85 pst. of the decisions examined. There are poor assessments of the substance condition and poor assessments of the problem of benefit/disadvantage. The municipalities do not justify any deviation from the opinions of the professional authorities. There is a lack of assessment of the state and regional framework and objectives, and the ‘can’ assessment of municipalities is lacking in all decisions. These are issues that I have literally come to grips with. This annual report should be read with a magnifying glass in Kommune-Norge, and it is among others. The ambition of the left to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1270	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1287	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President, 3 minutes to each of the other party groups and 3 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1294	The EOS Committee is the Agency for the Secret Services of Norway. The main purpose of monitoring the sample is to ensure that citizens’ rights are not violated and that laws and regulations are followed. The EOS Committee shall ensure that the secret services balance the privacy of individuals with the security needs of society and citizens. In this work, the EOS Committee controls among others. whether the registration of persons by the Police Security Service is in conformity with the Act, that the E Service does not violate the prohibition of monitoring Norwegian persons residing in Norway and on matters relating to the security clearance of the National Security Authority and the Defence Security Department has been properly addressed. Let me mention some of our comments in the position related to the Annual Report for 2020: the EOS Committee has criticised PST on a matter relating to the exchange of information on a Norwegian citizen to a service in a country where there is a risk that human rights will not be respected. In a review of how PST exchanges information with foreign services, the selection of information exchange on a Nordic resident abroad. The committee stated that the PST had made a poor assessment of the risk by providing information about him to the partner of the PST in the country concerned. The Committee endorses this criticism and stresses the importance of following up such criticism by the services. The EOS Committee has full transparency in ongoing cases in all EOS services with one exception: issues that are defined as particularly sensitive information at the Intelligence Service. In 2019 and 2020, the sample has gone through 19 cases/operations from several years back in time that are no longer defined as particularly sensitive information. The committee has not found any evidence that the intelligence service has gone beyond its powers or that someone has had their rights violated. The Committee is pleased with this review and its outcome. The Committee has also chosen to have a clear comment related to the E service in the submission. I refer to it in its entirety: ‘The Committee will underline the responsibility of the E service to maintain the confidence of the population on which the service depends. The audit carried out by the EOS Committee will reveal potentially critical aspects. The Committee would point out that the Storting expects the service to follow up any critical comments – and to ensure that procedures are in place at all times to take the most seriously any critical comments and to set up the service so that the type of critical comments can be avoided. The Committee would also highlight the importance of the job done by the E service to ensure that the nation's citizens face potential threats.» The Committee further writes: ‘The Committee refers to the fact that the selection in a complaint case has concluded that a complaint was infringing its rights as NSM incorrectly converted a clearing decision from CONFIDENCE to no clearing decision. The Committee points out that both NSM and FSA received criticism from the sample in a complaint case for a disproportionate length of time. More than four years after the complainant submitted personal information as a basis for clearance, the NSM reached its final decision on refusal of security clearance.’ We also point out, as mentioned in the Annual Report, that both the FSA and the NSM were criticised in a complaint that concerned the transparency of a clearance case. The complainant was denied access to actual information written down in an internal document. The complainant was additionally bound by professional secrecy under criminal liability for information supplied by the complainant to the clearing body. The Committee notes that when we were given the Annual Report for 2020 to the European Parliament in March 2021, it was exactly 25 years since the EOS Committee had its first meeting, and the Committee will therefore extend a great deal of thanks to the EOS Committee for its work well done in these 25 years. The Committee would also stress the importance of the work of the EOS Committee and that the selection should be given financial preconditions for continuing this important work. In conclusion, I just want to refer to all of the media reviews that have been in recent times on clearing matters. I am also aware that there will be cases that come to court related to this, and there have also been cases in court relating to these clearing cases. In June 2019, the Stortinget addressed a specific communication from the recent EOS Committee on Clearing Matters and Practices, and there were very clear comments from a unanimous increase in this respect. The government promised a follow-up, and I expect you to take care of it. When you read some of the issues that have been in the media related to clearing, I am surprised at how this is followed up. Now it may be because only one page will be presented with its case, but it is important that the comments made by the Committee and the Stortinget in 2019 are followed up by the government on clearing cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1327	Once again, I fully agree with the rapporteur's review and most of the report that is agreed upon, and a vote that is agreed upon. I was also going to start by congratulating the EOS Committee on the 25th anniversary. Some of us remember the history of the selection being created: the Lund Commission and the fact that it was revealed that there were illegally supervised persons in Norway. Based on that, I am very pleased with the 25 years that have gone by, and the job that the EOS Committee has done in those years. I can say that, as a committee, at the beginning of this period we had the opportunity to visit our colleagues in Nordic countries, where the supervision of the absolutely necessary secret services was one of the themes. I want to say that I think that we have found a good form in Norway — perhaps because of the great attention that was attached to the precursor of the EOS Committee. It is also in many ways reassuring to read the report we get, because there is a lot of care, and then there are individual things that are taken. In any case, we're not going to be able to deal with the individual issues. But it's thematic, and that's what's said. The rapporteur mentioned some examples of this. There are also examples of complaints being filed, and that some of the complaints do not lead to any follow-up — but that some actually do. And then, at the end, I just want to stress what the rapporteur was dealing with in relation to the National Security Authority and the Defence Security Department. He mentioned issues of mistreatment, but the fact that there are also issues that go over a long period of time, I think there is good reason to keep paying attention to, because it is dramatic interference in the lives of individuals when you do not get the security clearance you think you should get, or if necessary get the security clearance rejected, because it is both a personal and a private burden, but it can also go directly beyond the profession you are going to pursue, and therefore it is important that the EOS Committee continues to focus on it. Then I will not spend any time discussing the matter we spent a lot of time discussing yesterday. It was an exception in history that the EOS Committee for the first time disagreed with the Ministry of Defence on the level of grading – an exception that it took 25 years to come. I hope there is no precedent in that kind of matter in the future either. So the normal thing is going to be a lot of normality with the EOS committee, and I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1338	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his thorough work. The EOS selection is the Stortings independent control body with the secret services. They celebrate their 25th anniversary and can look back on a development in which control has changed from digging journalism to an internationally recognised big business. I would like to congratulate the EOS Committee on this development. The EOS Audit Team contributed to the trust of the secret services. The selection is wide-ranging, professional and political, with a parliamentary anchoring and great professional weight. The EOS selection now extends the control to control the method of arranged collection after new e-laws. I want to commend the selection to keep the work going during the pandemic when physical checks have been difficult. The EOS selection was created at a time when the Cold War was over, and maybe we didn't see the work of the secret services that were so necessary. Now we are at a time when we are more concerned with international conflicts and the greater need for these services. Then we have to bear in mind that what the secret services are designed to defend is our own democracy. The control of the EOS selection on behalf of the Storing is part of this democracy. Yesterday we had a discussion about grading the information that the EOS selection shares with the Storing. I react to the fact that the Council of State in its statement claims that it is illegal for the EOS Committee itself to communicate classified information to the Stortinget. I repeat, therefore, that it is the Storting that decides that the Security Act applies to the Storing's organs. It's the Stortinge that adopts EOS control. The promise is clear that information owners control the scaling of the information in the EOS selection. It is equally clear that the selection itself assesses whether the classified information is relevant to Size Control and distributes it directly to Size. This is your EOS selection. After 25 years, it is important not to put pressure on the control model we have on the secret services, but to strengthen it. The purpose of informing the Storting's management of control matters lies at the heart of the EOS selection to the Storing. That's the control model for the secret services. That's our democracy. I would also like to follow up on the issues of time management and clearance. It is unsustainable when people are sitting for so long without being able to get answers as to whether they can continue their work or not. It's absolutely crucial that we take hold of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1355	I want to start last year by joining the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs in identifying the importance of the control of our intelligence and security services by the EOS Committee. The EOS Committee ensures the legitimacy of the services, which is a vital condition for them to carry out their tasks. Let me also take the opportunity to congratulate the sample on these 25 ‘control years’, as the sample leader puts it in the anniversary leaflet. I am sure that the sample will continue to be important for the next 25 years as well, and I am equally sure that the sample will continue to evolve in line with changes in the challenge picture, as it has since its establishment. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee agrees with the EOS Committee's criticism of the PST case relating to the exchange of information on a Norwegian citizen to a service in a country where there is a risk of non-respect for human rights. I agree with the committee that it is important that such criticism is followed up by the services, and I have therefore noticed that the sample expresses satisfaction with the fact that the PST has reviewed the procedure and made changes in line with the selection opinions. NSM addresses many clearance issues where complexity poses both resource and competence challenges. The focus shall and must be on the quality of the proceedings. Consideration of national security interests and the legal certainty of individuals, including: the need for decisions within a reasonable period of time must also be taken into account. I note that the EOS Committee in this year's report concludes that there has been a positive development in the process of clearing cases where NSM is the first instance. From 2020 onwards, the NSM has been granted increased appropriations for compliance with the requirements of the Security Act. This increase shall include, inter alia: used to establish a more digitised clearing process. It will contribute to a higher quality of the proceedings and to a reduction in the processing time of the clearing house. I can assure you that in the office management with NSM I follow up the development of both quality and time use in the process of clearance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1368	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1373	There are not many single things you get as many input about as this with clearing. It comes from people who have had full-time and part-time jobs, whether in Home Security or in different defence areas, who feel that they are somehow being lawless because they are standing there and feel that they are not getting any good reason why they are not allowed to continue as before. They don't get any clarifications – when they try to get it up, they only get new answers, and they don't get any clarifications. What would the Minister like to do to clarify this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1380	Firstly, there should be no doubt that we are taking the criticisms relating to the length of the procedure seriously. As a result, NSM has had an increased framework, and they are working to reduce the length of proceedings. They've also done that in first instance cases. But I want to say that NSM treats 30,000 cases as first instance. There were 16 complaints to the EOS Committee, and in six of the complaints they received criticism. Three of them were in proceedings. One thing is one too many, but if you look at the totality here, I believe that NSM is doing a very good and thorough job. But there is no doubt that the need to do a good enough clearing job, against the concerns of the individual's legal certainty, must always be the main focus. That's what I think it is, and I'm going to follow it up in the dialogue with the NSM.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1387	Thanks for the answer. I'm glad one takes it seriously. Although there are not so many issues that come up to the EOS selection, I think there are many who wear internal in different defense branches. It's not that one will go all the way to the top immediately - one will try to clear it up internally in its organisation. That's where I feel that a lot of people kind of get checkmates, because they feel they're a bit guilty, there might be a relationship, there might be a lot of things. It is clear that one should take security seriously, but is it a little bit so that we can't evaluate the different levels of the positions that people have, where one happens a little too much over a comb?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1396	That's not my impression. My impression is on the contrary that you're just trying to go through this thoroughly. But you have to have insight into your affairs, and you have to be treated properly, and no one has to feel that you are almost like David against Goliath. Without going into individual matters, I don't always think that the media image gives the right idea of the issues. But we have to take seriously the issues we get to deal with, and the NSM must always be clear about the importance of following up on the individual, so that you feel taken care of. It's about the lives of many people, about work, and it has great consequences. We must have a great deal of understanding of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1404	I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice is so ‘two the points’ in these cases and is very clear that this is being taken seriously and sees what challenges it may be for some employees who may be getting their clearance. I'm very happy that you're clear on that. Obviously, when you look at the things you've read in the media, you get quite upset, because there are great representatives of our nation, who have been located at our foreign stations, who suddenly lose their clearance because they've got a girlfriend from another country. Now we are not going to proselytize those matters here in concrete terms, and I'm sure the Council of State will not be able to answer that question either. But I want to point out what I said in my main post, that we had a case, a special announcement from the EOS Committee, in 2019, which was discussed here, and the committee was very united, and the government was very clear in its feedback. I just want to be confirmed that the government is following up on the comments and follow up on what was promised in 2019 regarding the specific notification concerning clearing cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1411	Yes, I can only confirm that. Of course, four years of proceedings are completely out of date. It shouldn't be like that, everyone understands. Then it happens wrong, and then we just have to make sure to correct those errors. But I believe that NSM has been given increased resources, which allow both the cutting of the processing time, increasing competence and improving quality. This isn't going to happen. The challenge picture is only getting bigger, and the new Security Act is also demanding to be implemented. But we take that seriously, and then we have to make sure that it happens in a way that takes care of the individual in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1416	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1421	We rely on good intelligence and security services to live in a secure society. EOS services shall contribute to national security, preparedness and situational understanding. In order to carry out this job, services have been given specific powers and can take advantage of a wide range of instruments. At the same time, the services have legitimate screening needs which allow for little public transparency in the functioning of services. The EOS Committee controls the secret services on behalf of society. This democratic control is very important. That is why today, with the treatment of the EEAS Annual Report for 2020, is important both for services and for society. The EOS Committee has raised criticism of the Defence Security Department in some individual cases. As regards the practicalisation of the transparency rules in clearing cases, the criticism of the sample will be followed up by the section. As regards the procedure time in clearance cases, it is both my priority and that of the Defence Security Department to be satisfactory. I have to add that a four-year trial period appears to be a non-procedural rather a delay. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the Defence Security Department is handling over 20,000 clearance cases this year. I am pleased that the department has managed to maintain production through the covid-19 pandemic, so that we have cleared those to be cleared, and the personnel we need. So it will be that someone will always lose the clearance. Then we should be as clear about the process as possible and why. The EOS Committee has full transparency on ongoing issues in all EOS services, with one exception, and there are issues that are defined as particularly sensitive information at the Intelligence Service. In 2019 and 2020, the sample in 19 such cases, from years back in time, which are no longer defined as particularly sensitive information, has had a special review. The committee has not found any evidence that the intelligence service has lost its powers or that someone has been infringing its rights. I am very pleased that the sample has done this review, and not least I am pleased with the result, which shows that the intelligence service's work in these particularly well-protected matters is reliable and good. At the same time, the practice of this back-up check is a good safety net for us. I am pleased that the EOS Committee has found few critical aspects in the defence sector in 2020. It shows that the procedures and practices of the relevant units are well-managed. This positive result is important to take with it. And then, finally, I have to be allowed to reply to Andersen: there's a lot about the matter we discussed yesterday, where I'm not going to work sweat to create precedent.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1440	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1457	At the request of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President, 3 minutes to the other political groups and 3 minutes to the members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1470	That there is light in the lamp, life in the mobile phone and heat on the cooking plate, depending on good and safe power supply. In an increasingly digitised society, not only wind and storms can take the current from people. The current may also disappear due to computer viruses, hackar attacks or other computer system failures. In this respect, the National Audit Office has looked at precisely whether NVE’s drug use helps to strengthen ICT security. Let me first take advantage of the opportunity to thank the Committee for a good cooperation on the subject. The National Audit Office has found its basis for its second strongest form of criticism in the report. The National Audit Board has concluded that the NVE does not sufficiently ensure that it is well prepared to deal with ICT attacks in the power supply. After an overall assessment, the national audit found this to be serious. Furthermore, the Riksrevision has found that the NVE's weak management and follow-up of the ICT security work in the power supply is critical. The National Audit Service also believes that it is critical that the NVE's basis for taking part in the development overall is deficient. Furthermore, the supervision carried out by the NVE has weaknesses that the Riksrevision collects from Finn is critical. Finally, the Riksrevision believes that it is critical that the Ministry of Oil and Energy has not followed the area closely enough. There is a joint committee that stands behind findings and criticism from the Riksrevision. It is also a joint committee that supports the recommendations and asks the National Audit Board to follow developments in ICT security further. Finally, I will stop where I started: Light in the lamp, power on the mobile phone and heat on the hob is something we all need every day. The power supply is part of the critical infrastructure and is a deferred goal in war and conflict. Unfortunately, this is not the first time that this Committee has handled national audit reports that show serious lack of ICT security in our country. The last few weeks ago, we debated the very serious deficiencies of ICT security in healthcare professionals. This spring we have also seen our own institution, the Storting, be subjected to a serious hacker attack. We are therefore vulnerable in areas where there is a real risk of out-of-court engagement. Prime Minister Erna Solberg promised us security and preparedness when she was elected eight years ago. The Coronapandemy has seen the readiness to test, and the Prime Minister's answer to the Korona Commission's critical finding was that the government was bidding on a pandemic, but not this pandemic. I hope we don't end up in a situation where the Prime Minister has to say that we were bidding on an ICT attack, but not this ICT attack. Based on the issues dealt with by the Committee, I know that there is cause for concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1491	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good cooperation in this matter. The Riksrevision conclusion in this report is that Norway’s watercourse and energy directorate, abbreviated NVE, has not sufficiently established that it is well prepared to deal with data attacks in the power supply. The National Audit Service considers this to be serious. Power supply is a central part of our critical infrastructure to provide important societal functions. The weakness mentioned is related to the NVE’s management, follow-up and monitoring of data security in the power supply. We also read that there are weaknesses in NVE’s work on monitoring, warning and preparedness. The Ministry of Oil and Energy also receives criticism in order to have too little focus on obtaining and ensuring better management information on the results of the NVE’s work on ICT security in the power supply. In other words, the Riksrevision’s overall criticism is that the NVE has not followed up the safety work well enough, and that the follow-up by the Ministry can also be said to have been too passive. Governments have stated that she thinks the Riksrevision findings are useful. The findings are used to further develop and strengthen NVE's work on ICT security in the power supply, including: in the work on a new strategy for the period 2022 to 2026. Several of the recommendations have been followed up by work started, and much has been improved since the Riksrevision completed its study, and that is good. The Council of State also states in its response that the NVE prioritises industry guidance and competence-enhancing measures and that the work of the NVE in this area includes more than what is stated in the survey. Part of this work is the new guidance for the entire power emergency regulation, which came in December 2020. Since this regulation entered into force, the NVE has ensured that a number of courses have been held. State councils have asked NVE to strengthen ICT security in the power supply and better report to the Ministry, and the 2021 letter of assignment reads that the NVE has received control parameters to help assess the state of the power supply and assess the results of supervision. Revision and supervision are important contributions to improvement work. This report of the National Audit Office on ICT security in electricity supply, together with the recommendations made, is also so. But maybe the study would have been even more useful if it had come at some later time. The new power emergency regulation came into force from January 2019. The study is from 2016 to 2020. The NVE wanted to give businesses the opportunity to adapt to the changes before starting to supervise the second half of 2019. In addition, the pandemic situation has made oversight more difficult in 2020. We know that a data attack in the power supply can have major consequences for our society. A secure power supply is an important part of preparedness, and is a clear objective for interests that do not want us to be well. Developments have been rapid in recent years. Therefore, ICT security, technical systems and development must always be top priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1508	I thank the case spokesperson for his good cooperation. ICT security in the power supply is about securing the systems that bring power back to you and me. The National Audit Office has reported for a long time on weak information security in an important system for society. The last time we dealt with the theme, the security of hospital systems, this time it is Norway's watercourse and energy directorate, NVE, who is to make sure that the safety of the power companies is good enough. The overall assessment of the Riksrevision is that it is serious that the NVE has not adequately observed that it is well prepared to deal with ICT attacks in the power supply. NVE has weak control, low resources and lack of knowledge to assess the state of ICT security in the power supply. The NVE has strengthened the requirements in this area, but has not followed up with guidance to the company. NVE has had experience in managing ICT attacks against the power supply. The ministry does not have enough information to detect the weakness. Both ICT security and other areas are about being prepared to be banned from the undetected. Preparedness is also about being banned in the areas you know is risk. In the latest risk assessment, national safety authorities stress that the digital risk picture is sharp. The pandemic has given rise to an increased risk of ICT attacks, which we all know about. Then one must take seriously that the readiness is not good enough. When we are not forbidden cork on the known or undetected, the readiness is not good enough. It is necessary for the Ministry to follow the recommendations of the National Audit Office quickly to ensure that there is good security of power supply in the future and that the National Audit Office will follow further developments in the field of ICT security in the power supply. Security of power supply is crucial both for individuals and, in particular, for businesses around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1521	I would also like to start by thanking the case rapporteur for a thorough work on the matter. The National Audit Office has concluded that the NVE has not sufficiently ensured that it is well prepared to deal with ICT attacks in the power supply and, following an overall assessment, the Riksrevision has concluded that this is serious – the second highest level of criticism from the Riksrevision. I am pleased that the entire Committee joins the Riksrevision's findings and criticisms, and that the Committee supports the recommendations they make, and further requests the Riksrevision to follow developments in the field of ICT security in the power supply. The power supply is part of the critical infrastructure, which is why this is so serious. It starts drawing an image – which is why I took the word now – because something is not entirely on the lookout for ICT security, and it's across the board. This year’s risk assessment by the National Safety Authority emphasises that the digital risk profile has increased and that the pandemic has increased risk. Recent IT attacks against Stortinget, but also against Health South-East and other targets, show that the risk is real. At the same time, Stortinget has received a number of studies on ICT security failures in other critical areas. This issue is about the power supply, a short time ago, the National Audit Office came up with very serious criticisms of ICT security in healthcare companies, and there have been a number of such cases. It was – as has already been mentioned – a main issue for Erna Solberg and her new government in 2013 to improve preparedness. However, almost eight years later, with a number of serious reports and cases, there is reason to ask questions about whether preparedness work has once been able to keep up with the development of the threat picture, especially in the field of ICT, and it is in some cases very serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1530	ICT security is an increasingly important part of the work on security and security of power supply. As digital developments take place, attention has been paid to the importance of this precisely for security of supply. I believe that the NVE is doing a thorough and good job of ICT security in the power sector. Nevertheless, there will always be opportunities for improvement. To this end, such administrative audits are very useful, and I want to use the findings and recommendations of this report to further develop this important work. In the report, the Riksrevision concludes that the NVE has failed to ensure that it is well prepared to deal with ICT attacks in the power supply and that the Ministry of Oil and Energy does not ensure adequate management information on the ICT security status of the power supply and the results of the NVE’s work on ICT security. The National Audit Office makes a number of recommendations to strengthen NVE’s work and ensure that NVE’s reporting to the Ministry provides adequate management information on the results of the NVE’s work. The audit recommendations are taken seriously and several of the recommendations are already being followed up by work started. This applies, inter alia, to: supervisory work, industry guidance, competence raising measures, further development of systems for the detection and sharing of ICT security incidents and emergency planning updates. The recommendation to strengthen NVE’s reporting to the Ministry has also been followed up in the management dialogue with the Directorate. Regulatory and regulatory follow-up work is very good, but it is important to stress that it is the transmission system companies and the power producers that are responsible for monitoring ICT security in line with the legislation. Although the audit has been useful, I would point out that it could have even more benefit if it had arrived at a later stage. The force emergency regulation was updated in 2019 when it included: new ICT security requirements were introduced. The NVE then allowed businesses to adapt to the changes before starting to supervise the second half of 2019. Then, of course, we are all fully aware of the pandemic situation, which naturally led to a reduction in supervisory activity in 2020. I find it natural that legislative changes are followed up first by guidance, and then by supervision. Similarly, legislative changes need to have time to work before assessing the need for further action. ICT security is important, particularly for the power sector as critical infrastructure. As I started to say, there is a good and thorough work in this sector today, but with technology that is still changing, there will always be opportunities for improvement. Through the review of the National Audit Office, we have received concrete areas of improvement on the table. That's good. I know that the NVE is already following up on these, and I will also make sure that the Ministry of Oil and Energy through the governance dialogue focuses on this in the coming time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1543	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1548	The working party wants a total preparedness commission. It is about seeing risks and preparedness more together and getting better cooperation between the different resources. Overall preparedness and coordination of preparedness lie well with the Ministry of Justice and Security, but does the Council of State think that this could have been a useful step in strengthening ICT security in the power supply as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1553	As the representative himself is involved, this is a responsibility of the Minister of Justice and Defence, and she is in the Chamber, so she can answer the question afterwards. I think I'll stick to what I'm responsible for. I very much agree with the representative that the power supply is delayed. We must ensure that we have good preparedness there, and therefore we must also follow up the recommendations made in the report. There is a lot of good work done already, not least with the power emergency regulation, which I mentioned instead. It's been important. That's why we're following up many of the things that the audit also points out are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1560	I'm thinking about seeing this as a whole. Although the Council of State is only the Council of State for one department, is the Council of State also the Vice-Chairman of a large party, does it have a view on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1566	I am here in today's debate talking about ICT security in the power supply sector. I think I should stick to it, and then the representative can certainly ask these questions to the Minister of Justice and Defence, who is more suitable to answer them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1571	It's tempting to follow up when you start talking about the Emergency Commission and Total Preparedness, but I'm going to respect the responsibilities of the Council of State and stick to the power supply. Could it be that one has been so eager for ever-new ICT systems, greater connectivity and others to make it more effective, that one may have focused too much on improving the efficiency of the power supply and coordination, so one has somehow forgotten some of the safety of the road and the new risk images coming up?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1578	I don't have a reason to believe that. I also notice that something very important has happened in this sector in recent years. We needed more preparedness in the field. Therefore, it was important that the power emergency regulation came, and it is important that we now work closely to follow up the issues pointed out by the National Audit Office as a challenge. This is also an industry characterized by many technology changes that are coming continuously and quickly, so that we can focus on working with safety all the way in a changing technological situation is important, and we will follow that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1583	Thanks for the answer. Some of the challenges of technological development are and will always be that a person does not have the security before making the big changes, and the weaknesses often appear in retrospect. Should it not be that one took a safety round before one introduced the major changes that have occurred in the power supply in recent years?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1590	It was a little bit of what I was talking about, that now there were quite a lot of important changes with that regulation, and that they had to have time to work. Companies must be given the opportunity to follow up the legislation and the legislation must be settled. Then, of course, you have to be careful to supervise to make sure that it does. But it is also important to stress that it is the companies themselves that are responsible for ensuring that safety is in line with the legislation we have. Our responsibility is to ensure that legislation and that it is good enough. In this way, the report of the National Audit Office is also good, and it gives recommendations for further work in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1595	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1614	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1621	First, I would like to thank the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for its work. This proposal proposes a new Chapter 3(A) of the Penal Code, with rules to contribute to the proper implementation of penalties in the event of an outbreak of a public-risk transmissible disease. The Ministry has now proposed, in the light of the experience gained through temporary rules to remedy the covid-19 pandemic, a permanent legislative commitment, both because the pandemic is not over, because the temporary regulations need to be continued and in recognition of the potential for new pandemics requiring similar instruments. The Ministry states that the purpose of the proposals in the proposal is to meet the needs for a specific regulation of the criminal services resulting from the outbreak of covid-19, even after 1 June 2021, and similar needs in the event of a future outbreak of a public infectious disease. The Ministry does not believe that the law should abdicate other types of events and that the proposals in the proposal are therefore limited to situations of outbreaks of a public infectious disease that are infected by indirect contact, drip infection or airborne contamination. Then I want to explain a little bit about the Labour Party's point of view on the matter. The Labour Party will stress that we initially have an open mind to the proposal to make temporary changes that have worked permanently. In this proposition, where the changes include: However, we have chosen to apply special precautionary measures, in particular because heavy consultation bodies have shown a reasonable degree of scepticism to make the rules permanent. Among other things, this concerns the Institute of Public Health, the National Advocate, the Human Rights Committee of the Association of Judges, the Association of Advocates and the Norwegian Prisons and Freedoms Association. Therefore, we believe that it is appropriate at this stage to continue the temporary changes to the law relating to the pandemic, and then to draw up a permanent piece of legislation when the evaluation of the covid-19 pandemic provides an adequate basis for this. The committee has had to do some crobbling in the examination of the case in order to get everything up to date. In this way, the Workers' Party's proposal has come in after this law is passed. We then propose that it enter into force immediately and that it be repealed on 1 December 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1634	Over time, the Covid-19 pandemic has required specific measures to reduce the risk of infection in prison and to increase the level of reduced capacity in criminal services. There has been an impressive effort by additions and, to some extent, by deployments to prevent outbreaks of infection from coming out of control in the prison environment. I believe that the criminal services so far have been well closed in dealing with and delimiting the outbreaks that have occurred. Chapter 3(A) of the Penal Code contains temporary rules on measures to address the negative consequences of covid-19. The temporary rules were limited to 1 June, but were extended to 1 July of the last week in Stortinget, not to create a void of law in time before dealing with today's case. The government proposes to make Chapter 3(A) of the Penal Code permanent. In the Right we believe that the new rules will strengthen the preparedness of criminal services both for covid-19 and for possible future outbreaks of similar diseases. Over a relatively long period of time, criminal services have gained experience with the temporary rules. These have also been the subject of several hearings and audits in the last year and seem to us today to be relevant both to the current covid-19 pandemic and to any future common infectious diseases. We are therefore in agreement with the government that it is appropriate to make Chapter 3a of the Penal Code permanent, and believe that the criminal services with this will have an important tool for meeting similar outbreaks in the future. We would also like to stress that the rules are limited to entry into force when there has been an outbreak of a common infectious disease that is contagious by indirect contact, drip infection or airborne contamination, and measures following the chapter are necessary because of the outbreak of the disease. We have noted that the KRUS, the College and the Education Centre of Criminal Services, and the KDI, the Directorate of Criminal Welfare, are essentially in agreement with the proposal and see the need for sustainable rules to address the negative consequences of any future extraordinary crises. I'm taking up the proposal from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1651	The representative of Frida Melvær has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1656	Both the Stortinget and the Judicial Committee – and I perceive most of the parties on the Stortinget – have been attending regarding temporary legislation as a result of the coronary apathy. But essentially, it has been based on an understanding that it is temporary legislation, it has a time of cessation, and that, when we are at peace and quiet, hopefully not for long, we can initiate the investigations and learning processes that we must have based on the experience that this pandemic has given us – and then also the implications that it will have in terms of preparedness, in terms of legislation – yes, we have a great job and an important job, which must be carried out in many areas of Norwegian legislation. It's an important job. That job needs to be done properly, it needs to be done thoroughly, and it needs to be spent a little more time than was done on much of the temporary legislation presented to the Stortinget and accepted through the pandemic. That is why the Progress Party chooses to support the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV in the vote, because that is what is the majority in the Committee, and therefore also provide the majority in the Stortinget that we will limit this legislation. It may be that at a later stage we're going to say that it's important, the assessments that are made here, but now I think it's very reasonable to put it as a date that the law is repealed on 1 December 2021. I think we should come back to legislation in this area as well as in terms of adapting to the pandemic. That's why the Progress Party is going to ensure that we get that time limit when we get to voting, because it doesn't show up in the vote – just so it's clear. So I think in the meantime we're going to take some time. Nor will it be problematic if you come in time and have to go on with this law. Then you have the opportunity to do so in good time before December 1st, and the Stortinget will certainly be willing to do so, insofar as there is a need for it – let's hope not. But let's figure out well, let's do a thorough job before we start adapting our legislation to a good deal of preparedness in terms of pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1665	Let me first thank the Committee for a very good cooperation, so that we didn't risk a legitimate room here. That was very good. We know that the outbreak of covid-19 in Norway has had significant consequences for the activities of criminal services. The ETA has placed great emphasis on preventing infection in prisons and on reducing the number of prisoners in order to ensure safe conditions for those who still need to be there. I am pleased that criminal services have been able to maintain a level of safety that is safe even in this situation, as the Corona Commission also mentions. During the period of covid-19, temporary rules on the enforcement of penalties have been laid down, first a temporary regulation in compliance with the Korona Act, then provisional laws adopted by the Stortinget in May and December 2020. Today’s rules – initially applicable to today, but following the decision of the Storting on the last days until 1 July – contain specific provisions, among others. on visits to prison and exclusion from the community with other prisoners as a prevention measure. Today's legal case concerns proposals for permanent rules, with mainly the same elements as in the current temporary law. That's how covid-19 is not over. We need these rules in the further handling of this pandemic. Furthermore, by now including other diseases of general concern that are easily contagious, the proposal also helps to strengthen preparedness for possible future outbreaks of diseases such as covid-19. We've gained experience, we've gained knowledge, and I think it would have been labor-saving if we made this decision, which is only to be used in very special cases. I now realized from the contribution of the representative of the Progress Party that it does not get a majority, and we are well aware of that. But here you could have avoided double work in case you had to get into a situation with similar outbreaks on another occasion, but of course you have to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1678	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1683	Crime prevention is constantly developing with new forms of settlement, such as electronic control, EK, which is still under development. With the new digital solutions and the new methods of Agder prison, which the Council of State is well aware of, it may be that the implementation of penalties here to countries may look quite different at a later possible pandemic than it is today. In addition, a final evaluation of the criminal justice system has, of course, not been carried out during the pandemic period. Is the Government concerned that the Storting should adopt a permanent law that may not be at the next outbreak of a public infectious disease and which is not based on thorough evaluations of the current situation? The question is, is the Council of State concerned that this law might not be so good?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1690	No, I'm not. I wouldn't have promoted it if I was worried. We're simply doing this to save time on another corresponding occasion. It can happen in 1 year, it can happen in 10 years, it can happen in 15 years – it's completely impossible to know. If there's something that's certain, it's that things are going on in the future, you'll of course have to take into account any corresponding situation and make adjustments. But you'll be able to do the basic work. And if there's one thing this situation has taught me, it's how incredibly much resources we've had to use to make temporary laws and regulations. It is clear that in this area we have gained experience, we have gained knowledge, and there have been corrections, not least, that have been very important. I think getting a law passed now would have no meaning if it had been out of date in five or ten years, but it could be important next year if we still need this resource.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1697	It's okay enough that the Council of State is not concerned, and I understand the argument to present the matter, but the FHI, the Civil Ombudsman, the Riksadvokaten, the Norwegian Prisons and Freedom Council and others were concerned about that. Over to something else, this with time. Will the Council of State now provide good enough procedures, so that we avoid the danger of ending up in unlawful spaces, as we did in this situation, and where we, also for the Workers' Party, were pressured to deal with a law that we really did not want, because we wanted to continue another, temporary law. I expect the Council of State to see that it puts the Storting in a somewhat difficult situation. Will the Council of State now ensure good practice, so that we do not end up in this situation again?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1705	Yes, I'll do everything I can to avoid that. Then I have to say I was a little surprised when this happened, because I think we sent the bill at the end of March, and it said in the second sentence that the current temporaryity expires on 1 June. I thought that with the time perspective we have today, it was good enough time. We were to promote it before Easter, and that was the whole basis for promoting it. We have completely different timeframes – we have, and the Stortinget has – than we usually have, but it is clear that when the Stortinget has now decided that this will apply until 1 December, we can all hope that it will also be the end of it. If it does not, we will be sent it in good time, so that the Storting can handle it before 1 December.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1714	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1733	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1740	The Committee on Legal Affairs is so effective that the rapporteur still has to run a little in the Chamber! The Committee has examined a Document 8 proposal from the representatives of Skauvoll Foss, Hövstegård and Faret Sakarisassen on the regulation of police use of power on behalf of children under the care of child protection. Proposals point to the need for a stronger regulation of the coercive and coercive measures to be used in relation to children. The Committee refers to a number of headlines in the media on the use of police force against children in the field of child protection, which show that institutions and child protection services on average requested or received assistance from the police eight times a day. It is important to stress that children are a particularly vulnerable group and that, therefore, specific strict requirements for the use of coercion should be imposed. Therefore, the threshold should be high and careful consideration should always be given to the need for forced use and police use. The rapporteurs and the majority of the Committee point out that neither the police law nor the police directive contain specific conditions for the use of force against persons under 18 years of age. Therefore, it points to the need for a revision of the law and instructions. The majority of the Committee further points out that the proposers believe that the changes to the police law and the police directive must be accompanied by a more precise and defined indication of the danger that must exist prior to the use of a particular coercive agent, for example. immediate or acute hazard requirements. The proposers also point out that, at times or in areas of permanent or general armaments, the police directive must also grant exemptions from general arms when the police assist child protection. The majority point to the fact that the proposers believe that effective enforcement needs to be dependent on police documenting their child protection missions and the coercive measures used to do so to a far greater extent than at present. Furthermore, the complainants question the independence of the appeal mechanism as long as there is no external appeal body. The majority point to the fact that, on this basis, the proposers are making proposals for the regulation of the police law and the police directive to clarify the importance of more stringent protection of human rights in the use of coercive measures against children than against adults. I thank the Committee on Cooperation in the matter and will now briefly explain the position of the Labour Party. I refer to the treatment Stortinget had earlier on the introduction of saliva in criminal custody. At that time, the Workers' Party said clearly no to the use of saliva. And we'll do that now. With regard to the ability of the police to carry weapons when children are present, the Labour Party would stress that situations may arise where the armed forces may be necessary even when children are present, for example. when children are exposed to the threat. Nevertheless, these members are satisfied that there is now work in the Police Directorate, the POD, in drawing up guidelines on when the officials can be disarmed in cases where the Directorate has decided on a general armament, and assumes that the best of the child is of course part of and crucial in this work. I refer you to the Workers' Party's loose proposals on the matter and address the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1768	The representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1773	Norway has a highly educated police force that has a high awareness of the use of power. Through the Bachelor's degree at the Police College, the police are trained to exercise the least possible power. Police shall, as far as possible, avoid the use of physical power, and power towards minors shall be used only as a last resort. The government is already well in the process of meeting many of the issues raised in this proposal. The Directorate of Police has stated that they will assess the development of an appropriate recording of the use of power in police missions in child protection matters. This assessment shall focus on the establishment of a basis for public and available statistics. Although today’s legislation provides clear guidance for police to avoid, as far as possible, the use of physical power and the necessity and proportionality of any exercise of power, it is natural to review how police use of force against minors should be regulated. A good measure is that the Police Directorate will develop a child-care counsellor in cooperation with the Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate. The Ministry will also assess whether there is a need for a more precise regulation of police power against minors in the police directive and, where appropriate, in the police law. Police have many comprehensive and wide-ranging obligations to intervene in various incidents. The Directorate of Police points out that it is difficult to establish absolute limits on access to specific types of methods and means of power. Risk assessments and decisions have to be decided on the basis of a discretionary assessment based on police competence and it follows from the legislation that the police should use as little power as possible. With regard to the question of performing missions unarmed in situations where the police are generally armed, we believe that this is an assessment the police themselves must take. However, the Directorate of Police has guidelines for disarming officials in cases where the directorate and the special body carry out risk assessments for service types and tasks which should nevertheless be carried out unarmed, because armaments may be inappropriate. The Police Directorate has also met with the Children’s Ombudsman and is in dialogue with Bufdir to clarify the need for adaptation of today’s complaint procedure. We look forward to a review of how police use of power against minors should be regulated, and we will base this review on further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1798	Let me start by saying that I perceive that this representative proposal is in the border country to create distrust of how the police work. Because there's something that's quite obvious, it's that the police are very well trained, very well schooled, and in practice they show on every occasion that they're very reluctant to use force, to apply power, and I would say that at times they might be too reluctant to use power just when it's remarkably necessary. But there are assessments the police take for themselves, assessments they are well schooled in, assessments that our excellent police training equips them well to do. So it's like sometimes you have to use coercion, sometimes you have to use power in dealing with children. Then it is important to remember that a child in a legal sense is any person who is under 18 years of age. A 17-year-old boy who's well-trained can sit down very much to the contrary if he wants to. But that's not the association you get when you hear the concept of a child. Then you think about small children, and it sounds like the police have to use coercion against them. Well, there are situations where it's necessary, and I trust that these assessments will do the police the best in the individual situation. What I will at least strongly warn against is going into a detailed regulation on the application of power in this area, because it always has, always has unintended consequences. We've seen that too many times. Here we should have general rules, general driving rules, good training, as we have, and then we have to trust that the police will be able to assess this for themselves. I actually perceive this matter as a bit initiated by a single newspaper and a single journalist who has written a lot about it. For me, it almost seems that this case has a somewhat striking impact of being campaign journalism. Anyway, when it comes to the use of spitting mask, I can only repeat what I have said before. If you want to avoid being equipped with a spitting mask, it is very easy to avoid it. It's just not to spit on the police staff, people in the criminal service, so it's going very well. Then you get rid of it. And once again, in the case of weird rules, now we have to have rules for non-armament when we have adopted weapons that are a rule that is an exception to non-armament. Think about it!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1813	The SV representative proposal comes from a series of good reporters in Stavanger Aftenblad. These reports show that the police are often asked to help with child protection. What is the scope, nobody knows, but based on the review to Stavanger Aftenblad, there were at least 2,800 missions in 2019. The police are increasingly asked to help both in the case of patients with drug and psychiatric disorders and in the case of young people and young people under the care of child protection. These developments have been significant in recent years. Police Directorate figures show that the number of drug-related missions and psychiatry has increased from over 37 000 in 2016 to over 53 000 in 2020. The fact that the police have to spend a huge amount of time on non-police work is unfortunate for society, for the police themselves, and not least for the young and the patients who meet with the police instead of child protection educators and health professionals — who could certainly be current and possible in some of the cases. We also know that the number of police patrols in this country has not increased in recent years. An increased amount of work associated with, inter alia, the task This weakens police prevention, preparedness and accessibility. Several of the proposals that are being debated today deal with issues that arouse strong feelings, such as the use of saliva on young people, on minors. Spytheter is one of several coercive agents the police have available, along with baton, handcuff and weapons. They've had this for a year. Police practice solving difficult situations in such a way that the use of these means of power becomes at least possible. The centre party has opposed the introduction of saliva as a coercive agent for young people in criminal care, including those in prison. because minors in criminal services live under a completely different regime than people out on the streets. The centre party will have a professional distribution of the consequences of the use of saliva before any use is permitted in criminal matters. But we think it's unwise to remove this and other coercive measures from the police without compensation, and we can't do it without involving the trusted and relevant professional community. We don't ignore the fact that we can support a ban on this or other coercive means later, but we want all the facts and views on the cases on the table first. For the Central Party, it is obvious that the police are using their coercive measures as restrictively as possible. Both the baton, the gun, the pepper spray, the electrical weapons and the saliva are potentially unpleasant, painful or dangerous for those against whom it is used. Letting such tools be available to our authorities is not the same as saying that one supports the most possible use of them, as SV has made it look like. The Central Party is pleased that the Norwegian police are in the throes of a peaceful and anti-conflict approach. They have been shown for long periods, including temporary armaments and in the police districts they have access to electroshock weapons, that they use these means of power very rarely.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1830	Would the representative like to comment on the proposal of the Central Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1835	Yes, I'd like to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1840	Then the representative Jenny Klinge has taken up the proposal from the centre party and the proposal from the centre party and SV is behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1846	Let me first draw attention to the fact that I am behind this proposal. My name is not in the proposal text, it is because I was absent on the day the proposals were submitted at Stortinget, but I have to take ownership of this myself. This is based on very eye-catching revelations made by Stavanger Aftenblad: a great many police missions under the care of child protection, an unknown number of coercive measures. We have received reports about the use of handcuffs, spitting masks and bodycuff, as well as armed police, in contact with children, some terrible stories about small children being put on the ground by six policemen and wearing handcuffs and spitting masks – terrible and very heartbreaking stories have actually emerged. It is important to realize that these are the most vulnerable among us, these are children who have already failed. There are also children who are very vulnerable to being recruited into crime. When I started digging in this matter, we discovered a very unregulated area. We lacked an overview of this, we lacked clear criteria for the use of power, there was a lack of criteria for necessity and proportionality. Both the Norwegian Institute for Human Rights and the Children’s Ombudsman reacted to this and have called for very clear rules. They believe that the lack of regulation of this area has led to a significant degree of arbitrariness in the nature of this practice. Of course, this is no mistrust of the police, which the Progress Party makes you believe. The police are doing their job, but they don't have clear rules on how to do that job, because it's actually the Stortinget that's going to decide. The police shall not determine their own means of coercion; the Storting shall do so; it shall be the essential task of the democratic institution. That's why we believe it's our obligation to regulate this area, precisely because it's a large underregulated area. The political assessment here now is interesting enough that all parties minus the Progress Party believe there is a need for stricter regulation. It is clear in the remarks that the majority, all parties minus the Advance Party, have been present. There is a need for better regulation, so my conception of reality is well on the way. That is what you want, and you also see the need for better regulation of the coercive measures. In fact, in addition to presenting various proposals on how to ask for better regulation, we are also making two very specific proposals for bans. One is the prohibition of spitting mask, which we believe is definitely required – I do not need to repeat what the other has said about this. We also believe that there is a basis for exempting the use of weapons — or weapons — in these situations. It was also part of the Workers' Party when we discussed similar issues when the police were in charge of the payroll. Then the Workers' Party supported it. They choose not to support it now, they get the answer for why they don't. With that, I'm submitting SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1865	The representative Petter Eide then mentioned the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1870	Although most of Norway’s inhabitants live safe and good lives, there is evidence that some are on the outskirts and, unfortunately, outside the community. The Christian People's Party wants to develop a welfare society that provides security and opportunities for all, and to combat this situation, so that all people experience dignity. Police law and police instructions regulate police practices. One shall, as far as possible, avoid the use of physical power, and to minors as a last resort, at least in the extension of child protection measures. The use of power must be necessary, sound and appropriate and proportionate to the seriousness of the situation, the purpose of the service operation and the circumstances in other circumstances. Norway has a highly educated police who are aware of the use of power. This training is given to them through the training at the Police College. The police in various missions are the best assessors of the risks and decisions on the procedure to be chosen. This must be done on the basis of a discretionary assessment in the police districts, based on their competence. In all cases, the Christian People's Party will follow the Convention principle that all acts and decisions affecting children should have the best interests of the child as fundamental consideration. We are therefore pleased that the Police Directorate will now develop a child-care counsellor in cooperation with Bufdir. The Christian People's Party is also pleased that the ministry will assess whether there is reason to downgrade a more precise regulation of police use of force against minors in the police directive, and, where appropriate, in the police law. In addition, the Directorate has informed them that they will assess the development of appropriate recording of use of power under police missions in child protection matters. This believes the Christian People's Party is the right way to go in order to ensure the best possible care for children under the care of child protection. Clearly, children and young people who experience this can get an experience from the police who sit like a wound for the rest of their lives, and therefore it is important to keep a good focus on this. The necessary assistance for child protection and the use of power against minors in other situations is necessary, but this must be done in the most gentle way possible for the child. The means of power used must be proportionate and appropriate to the individual child and to the individual situation. The Christian People's Party will strengthen the rights of child protection, the rights of children's protection and the right to be heard and involved and the possibility to complain about the services they receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1887	Today’s legislation provides clear indications that the police are to avoid, as far as possible, the use of physical power and that any exercise of power is necessary and proportionate. However, we will consider whether there is a need for more precise rules on police use of force against minors in the police directive and, where appropriate, the police law. The Police Directorate will develop a child-care counsellor in consultation with the Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate. It is very good that the Directorate of Police is now considering developing a way of recording the use of power under police missions in child protection matters, so that it can be done in an appropriate way. The registration shall provide the basis for statistics which may be made publicly available. Furthermore, it is good for the Police Directorate to draw up guidelines on when the police can be disarmed in situations of temporary general armaments. The police are the closest to carrying out these assessments. As regards the question of a new independent appeal body, I note that the majority does not support such a proposal. Rather, we should look at the possibility of adapting today's complaint regime, as the Directorate of Police and Bufdir are in dialogue. Prohibiting certain types of power in missions involving minors may be difficult for security reasons. I also notice that the majority does not support the introduction of a ban on the use of saliva masks on young people. In conclusion, I would like to stress that we have a highly trained police officer who has a high awareness of the use of power. Through the Bachelor's degree at the Police College, the police are trained to use the least possible power. The issues we are discussing today are important, and the government is well in following up many of the issues addressed in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1906	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1911	Today, Stavanger Aftenblad shows that the police have neither training nor training on the use of saliva, despite constant warnings about the dangers and the risk of suffocation using this coercive agent. The police director says to the newspaper that they take self-criticism and alert action. I guess that's good. Does the Council know whether the obligation to investigate life and health was complied with as regards police use of saliva as a coercive agent when introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1918	What's good is that there are very, very few accidents associated with the use of saliva in the police. What is not good is that the Police College has not followed up the mission they received in 2012 related to this, but it is very good to get caught up in it. I have great confidence in our police training, which is much better than in most other countries, how precisely not using power is an important part of education. I do not know and cannot answer the question that the representative has, so I must be allowed to come back to Stortinget and answer it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1925	Thank you for that. It is obvious that the police are using powers in which they are not trained, obvious in the interests of those who are being dealt with by power, but also of those who use power. Employees must be confident that they are not put into a situation where they use a means of power incorrectly and unwittingly can harm a human being for life and health. What action will the Council of State take to ensure that police officers who do not have training or training in the use of saliva do not have the opportunity to use the coercive agent until they have received training?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1932	I have full confidence that the Police Directorate is now following this up, including cf. today's look up in the papers. So it's not an impression I have that this is some problem at all, and that's very good. When I think that the police must be able to have these kinds of coercive measures, it's because you can stand in a situation with very good young people, heavy criminals, who also use spit as a means of power. But my impression is that the police are doing everything they can to avoid using power, and rather find other solutions. This, I believe, is a task for the Police Directorate, and it is natural for me to follow it up in the dialogue with the police director that I have every month.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1939	I would say that a harm to life or health, either by children or adults, through the use of a coercive drug the police do not have training and training in use, is too much damage – if only once. Does the Council of State mean that she does not want any measures to ensure that policemen who have not been trained to use saliva do not apply this – from today, from now on, when we are aware of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1944	Yes, I believe this is a job that the Directorate of Police will follow up. There is a reason why we have just asked them to make police professional judgements. I have confidence that they do, I have the full impression that they do, and I follow it up in the dialogue. This is not a decision that belongs naturally in the Ministry of Justice, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1950	I am very pleased with the State Council's statement from the pulpit. I think it was very nice, and it comes to us very well in meeting many things. I really appreciate that. It is quite obvious that Stavanger Aftenblad, the fourth state power, has set things in motion here, also reinforced by the treatment we have in Stortinget now. I think that's fine. There is a need for regulation, the need for statistics, the need for clearer guidelines and even an assessment of how police should be armed in such situations. I think that's very nice to hear. Then it would have been interesting to hear whether the Minister of Justice agrees with his predecessor, Per-Willy Amundsen, that these changes and the regulations that the Council of State is now about to launch are a mistrust of the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1959	It is good that the representative is satisfied with the post. Now I would like to say – without inviting me to a new debate on this – that there is a difference between whether regulation takes place here in the Chamber and in the Ministry of Justice, or whether it takes place on the basis of police evaluations. For example, statistics and reporting are: For all, but at the same time, police use as much of their time as possible — for prevention, for detection, for follow-up, and for minimum time on registration of forms, e.g. When the police themselves make police professional judgements, I am very pleased, it strengthens the police's work, but it would not be good if it were on the basis of decisions in this Chamber that – far beyond the political – detailed police work in this field. We need to be clear about our legal requirements, priorities and objectives, and we need to follow that up in the dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1968	This opens up a very important fundamental discussion: Should the police's coercive measures and their use be determined by the police themselves, or should it be determined by the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1973	Of course, all the laws and regulations relating to this must be determined by Stortinget. That's not what we're talking about. What has been proposed is that we should be able to detail all situations for how and when the police can act using coercive measures. I think that's completely impossible. There is a big difference between when the tax authorities break into a family of children in the context of a eviction, which is only a completely tragic matter, and a situation facing severely criminal 17-year-olds. There are two completely different situations, and having to detail all of these things in the form of law and regulation I think is almost impossible. But the fact that we have a law that makes clear demands on proportionality and necessity and that you should always use physical power as much as possible, I think it is absolutely right, and that's of course the task of Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1980	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1987	I will not bother Stortinget with much more about this debate. Much has been said, and the distance between us as the proposer and the Council of State is not so great in this matter, but after hearing the representative Per-Willy Amundsen, I have to make some comments. He presents this proposal as a distrust of the police, and I have to try to explain what this is like: it is absolutely right that we have a very good police in Norway. It's rare they come up in such difficult situations. However, when they're equipped with these coercive measures, which can often carry wrong places, it's also the way the police actually do their job, because it's not necessarily the police who have asked for this, it's us as the legislative authority that has given the police these opportunities. So I definitely mean that this is not a mistrust of the police. I've even talked to policemen about this, and more people experience this as a little uncomfortable as well. And we definitely don't want to be in a situation where we also have to take some kind of formal responsibility that the police can get into situations where they have this kind of coercion, which can be very painful, and have this on their conscience. Mistletoe — rather the contrary, it is rather a recognition of the police, and it is a help to the police to regulate their work better. So Per-Willy Amundsen says we don't need any ban on spitting masks. Can't these kids just don't spit, he says. Then I have to ask the former Minister of Justice and the Secretary of State Per-Willy Amundsen to take the floor. My question to him is: does he have no care for these very most vulnerable children and young people? Doesn't he have empathy? Does he have no understanding that in many situations this is a very desperate child who has failed by his parents, who has failed by school, who has failed by child protection, and who comes into these very difficult situations? And when they fail that way, they also meet policemen with spit masks and weapons and are put in irons. If he has no empathy, my question is.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1994	As I said in my previous post, there is reason for a review of the police's use of power in matters involving children. However, I just want to remember the treatment of Prop. 143 L for 2019-2020 in the Justice Committee, where the Directorate of Police has been informed by the Department that the police have been using spaghetti for several years – it was adopted in 2012, i.e. under the Red-Green Government – and that during these years it is not known that the use of saliva has caused damage. So it could be that a makes just this into a bigger case than it actually is.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e1999	I note that SV and the representative Eide react to me saying from this pulpit that there is a limit to being suspicious of the police when you make proposals like this. That's what I stand for, because going into and regulating the police's use of power in every conceivable and unimaginable situation is firstly impossible to implement, but if you're going to go down to such a level of detail from the Storting, it can't be anything but an expression of distrust towards the police – I have trouble reading SV in any other way. So, of course, it's the Greatness that draws the limits of power use, but we do it through general law. It must be trusted that in the police work, the police evaluations, which were also discussed by the Council of State, are being drawn up. But the fact that the Storting should be involved at the level of detail and regulate these conditions must mean – it says itself – that there has been a mistrust that the police can handle it on their own. It's very hard to read it in any other way. Then questions are asked about empathy for children. It's not hard to have empathy for children. I think we all have, and we also understand that there are many who can get into a difficult life situation when they are small, and it fails around them: family, relatives and the system around them fails, and they end up in a difficult situation – and they like to call them vulnerable. But often it is that the reason you end up in these situations is that you have not had adults who have been present in life, drawn up borders, boundaries that every child needs in his or her growth. That's how you become whole, good individuals – knowing that actions have consequences. And that's exactly what a spunthette will signal: if you spit at the police, the police take the reservation to make sure you don't have the opportunity to continue doing that, and you do that by using that tool. But it is not about empathy. It is absolutely fundamental that demands are made and that they have consequences when you violate those requirements, whether they be children or adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2008	There are some clear lines of distinction between the parties in this debate. When our young children, children in our society, are put in a situation where they become heavily criminal, some may say that it is the child's responsibility and perhaps the parents' responsibility, and that the individual himself must take responsibility for it. I would like to say that it is our Community's responsibility. It's our society's responsibility. And we share part of the blame for the crimes that have been committed. Because we were not there when he was a severely criminal at the age of 17, was 7 years old, when he was 12 years old and when he was 15. We're like communities that didn't set up. The solution is therefore also in the community, not by new abuses and disclaimers, but by putting up with everything we have of wisdom and knowledge to help and to lift children who have become heavily criminal, out of that lane. It's our responsibility, it's society's responsibility, our community's responsibility. Then I'm surprised at a little passive response from the Council of State here in our reply. I had wanted a faster response both to protect those who are exposed to unskilled people in the use of coercive drugs and saliva, and to protect the employees. I get to hope that the Council of State listens well to the debate and maybe put a little extra pressure on a phone or a contact to the POD, the Police Directorate, to make sure that the police actually don't use coercive means they don't have training in, to the best of the audience, the affected and the employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2015	The representative Petter Eide has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2020	I would like to thank the previous speaker. It was very beautiful and nice to say. It is claimed that we are distrusting the police because we regulate the police's work in detail. Then I have to ask the representative Amundsen: which of these proposals is detailed regulation? Proposal No. 1 assumes that we will have a national log management practice. Is it detailing? We are going to ask the government to introduce stricter regulation of the use of coercive agents. It's not going into detail. We want a ban on spitting masks on children. That's admitting I'm very detailed. We're asking that we have a child-care counselor. It's not going into detail either. We must have more stringent human rights protection in police work against children than against others. What in this is the detailed regulation of police work? I have to ask you that. It's nothing, as I read it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2028	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2033	The representative Eide answers his own question, so I might not have to answer it. It's a general problem that we in this room have a strong tendency to detail the police too much. This leads to inefficiency, which means that in many ways what you want is not necessarily achieved, because it has unintended effects, and the result is that the police are generally not doing as well as the police can be at their best. So I'd like to respond to what Aasen-Svensrud said, which simplifies a little bit of the explanation of the distinction that is in this room. Clearly, children need limits. It's completely incomprehensible that it's going to be wrong that society also draws up those boundaries. Actions have consequences. If there's something we know from research, it's just that the absence of consequences can cause children to become unsafe and enter a wrong runway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2042	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2060	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity will be given for a replacement of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2067	In the proposal for a regulation, the proposers take into account the problems associated with the system of land fasts, which they believe are out of date and should be discontinued. The proposers point out that the scheme brings with it uncertainty and conflict, and that there needs to be better and fairer ways of resolving this, both for today’s fastening conditions and for future generations. The proposers believe that previous changes made in the empties haven't worked properly or attenuated the level of conflict, and that many conflicts end up in the legal system. There are two proposals in the proposal for a representative, the first of which concerns the winding-up of land for residential and recreational property. The second proposal concerns the prohibition of new fixed-term contracts after a land lease for residential and recreational property pending the winding-up of the law. I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation on the subject. As the proposers point out, the tying system has historically been a favourable arrangement for fasteners as well as for fasteners. Today, there are more than 300,000 party agreements concluded at different times and under different legal regimes. Most of these party houses or cabins. For most people, the system will still be attractive, even if we are to recognise that the system also sometimes leads to conflicts that have not been resolved by the parties and thus ends up in court. In the work on the case, there have been many recordings, both from the representatives of parties and for accumulators. The recording did not have an unexpected part very conflicting view. This probably also reflects the complexity of the matter. Regardless of vision, there would be little doubt that the proposals would imply that very many would have been thrown into great uncertainty about the future. It's not that everyone who hangs out today will have the financial ability to trigger it. Such a requirement could mean that people might have to leave the house and home. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State has done a great deal to address several of the issues that need to be addressed in the event of multiple proposals. Such a decision, apart from setting aside valid agreements concluded, will also constitute a significant interference in the parties' statutory rights to landowners and, in addition, raise questions relating to the Constitution and the EMC, the European Convention on Human Rights. In addition, the proposal could call for substantial financial assistance or liability for the State. It is relatively short time since the last laws were revised. There is currently also a new case dealing with empty fasts for handling in the EMD, the European Court of Human Rights and which has not been clarified. The government party will not support proposals from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2086	Thank you very much to the case spokesman for a very good explanation of the proposal. As Frida Melvær is inside, we're not quite a few people in this case, and it's not very surprising. The Labour Party has long believed that the Santa Claus Act has expired. We know that it deals with over 300,000 party contracts and is and will become a very conflicting law. Therefore, we have now proposed that the law should be terminated. We know that you can't just do it overnight. It will have a thorough legal work, which we think all the actors involved should have been involved. In the right old days, maybe the Santa Claus Act was a good option for many. Today we think it is a historical survival that no longer fulfills its purpose. We also think that we have a political responsibility as legislators when we see a law that works so badly, that creates so much legal certainty challenges for many, and where the distance between having the right and having the right is very big. We also think that some of the things that very many of you have read about appear to be very typical consumer issues where the strength relationship is very uneven. I was the case spokesman for the previous change, in 2015, after the EMD judgment was known as Lindheim-saka. At that time, in the Labour Party, we thought that the government and the Centre went far too far in favoring a fast forward, and we are getting even more new disputes. We're probably not some people in this case, but I think it's a pity we couldn't be some about the reality description, because it's a little obvious that the Right Party and the Advance Party are asking for peace around a law that, at least in my opinion, neither represents peace nor is presumptuous. Here a job could have been started to find better solutions. Time has passed to run and patch on a law that has been tried to change so many times in different directions – let's be honest about it – that different changes, including from the time we put ourselves in government, did not work. It is a pity that no more parties will support the Labour Party and initiate such legal work, and ban the conclusion of new party contracts. I'm glad to be supported by SV. We have been in this matter for several years and have only to note that we are still standing. I'm taking up the two suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2097	The representative, Mrs. Lene Vågslid, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2102	In case of an error, the comments from the Central Party were not included in the committee setting, so in my posts I come up with a good part of what should have been in the comments, to do a good thing for what the party thinks. The centre party is critical of the consequences of the proposed action. We think it would be very unfortunate for Norwegian agriculture to wind up or change Santa Claus Festival, as the proposal suggests. The proposal involves an unnecessary and unilateral weakening of the interests of the awrestler. It is difficult to see that current social interests in this case are so burdensome that there is a legal basis for such a strong legal intervention in private property law. In addition, the proposal appeared to conflict with the protection afforded to the owner of the land under the European Convention on Human Rights, the EMC. The protection of private property rights and the possibility for the founder to benefit from the appreciation of his own property is central to the Center Party. At the same time, the system must ensure that empty fasteners do not receive an unreasonably high price rise. So it's all about balancing and making it the best possible way out of it. The Santa Claus Institute represents an important source of nutrition for many agricultural properties and explores that basis for busses and commercial activities throughout the country. It also supports national strategies for increasing the use of land and makes it possible to build cabins and houses for people in places where the landowner will not sell empty. We point out that Norwegian farmers, by investing in the field industry, have followed the call that has come from a concerted accumulation in the handling of their various agricultural messages. For many uses, there are current property incomes guaranteeing that there is a basis for further buseting and operation of the agricultural property. Therefore, it is important for the landowner’s side that the plot is not decommissioned. The centre party stresses that the landowner’s side believes that there is no basis for imposing a ban on the conclusion of new party contracts. Such a ban does not solve any of the problems proposed by the proposers as a basis for their proposals. These problems are linked to contracts concluded before 1 January 2002, in particular contracts where the parties had agreed that the fixed fee should be regulated on the basis of the land value. I come back with the rest of a new post, so I don't get it so busy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2119	Law of Santa Claus and the practice of it has a history. It has been subject to legislative changes on several occasions, including under the red-green government of Stoltenberg II, which has not necessarily led to minor conflicts. Maybe that's what's a bit of a challenge, because there's no obvious, final solution to how Santas should and should be handled in the future. Therefore, it is very complicated and challenging almost above the table to decide what is being presented here. In any case, detailed investigations must be carried out before any conclusions can be drawn. I am open that the Progress Party can also end up there wanting to make significant changes to the scheme – yes, perhaps even wind it up. But the Center Party represents a different view and has good points of view in its assessments. Then it becomes a little strange to experience that the Workers' Party is attacking the Advance Party and the Right because we disagree with the Workers' Party's assessments. The big elephant in the room is the Center Party, which they don't even mention, which is the preferred party the Workers' Party wants to sit in government with. It is a bit hollow that the Progress Party gets criticism for something that their assumed closest cooperation partner, the Center Party, also believes. That is often how these debates turn out, because it is quite often that the Progress Party, the Right and the Central Party are bringing together in political matters. Now others have come with invitations over the blocks. I'm not going to repeat that today, but it's striking that in some things it's the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Center Party that come together. But whatever is to be done in the future with law on Santa Claus, it will require thorough evaluations and thorough investigations. So it's not a simple, fix solution to what's a complicated issue, and which certainly also has conflict-tracing aspects. But we don't have that fasitite here today. The Stortinget may be invited to take a decision on this at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2128	A complete liquidation of the Law on Landings within a relatively short time horizon will require very drastic measures. Established contractual relationships must be set aside, and ownership must be forcibly transferred to the firmroom by redemption – generally against the wishes of all parties. This will put a significant financial burden on the parties, and it is not certain that they can afford it. Nor shall the ownership of own land be overlooked too quickly by the State; it has previously been pointed out by the European Court of Human Rights. This proposal by the Workers' Party – at a strange time, I think – could underpin fundamental legal rights under both the Constitution and the Human Rights Convention. In our promotion, the government introduced a new law on the Information Society's fund. The Norwegian Church is now to take over properties of particular church value and become owners of them. The State receives the ownership of the rest of the Fund on condition that culturally important church buildings are restored. The information service's fund is one of Norway's largest landowners, with around 6 200 contracts for landfills, 3 500 for housing, and 200 holiday homes. They have a substantial part of their income from these fasteners. In 2010, there was one case in the Supreme Court about a Santa Claus Festival directive – which also applied to the OVF – when the government, led by the Workers' Party, among others. I wanted the fasteners to be redeemed at a low price. The fund would have lost millions of dollars a year. The applicant considered that the Santa Claus directive was contrary to the Basic Law in the case of the Information Society Fund. The State lost the case on appeal and had to pay the OVF compensation for lost income. The representative proposal from the Workers' Party will now once again repeal the Law on Landing, so that the plots can probably be sold at a lower price than that resulting from fastening agreements and the Law on Landing. It is unclear how such winding-up can take place in practice. In order to really achieve full liquidation, public expropriation and redistribution may have to be used. And the Center Party up in this -- I get their point of view, and it's going to be weird to see what's going to happen if these guys are going to cooperate on this. The Christian People's Party is opposed to the proposal, even in terms of the consequences it will have for the Information Society's fund and thousands of farmers around the country who have their income from such party agreements. We have also noticed that the Norwegian Farmers' Association believes that it will be very unfortunate – ‘very unfortunate’ are the words used – for Norwegian agriculture to liquidate or amend the Landfill Act, as proposed by the Workers' Party here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2143	The size then takes a break to go to voting. We will continue the debates after the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2166	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 to 2 and 4, from Jon Engen-Helgheim on behalf of the Progress Party, proposal No 3, from Heidi Greni on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to stop the process of further transfer of power to Acer, to start the reversal of the transfer of power to EU financial supervision and not to transfer power to the EU over asylum and immigration policy in Norway.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2192	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that Norway does not participate in the EU Asylum Pact, ‘New Pact on Migration and Asylum’.’ The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2216	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 2 and 4 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to work actively to wind up today’s failed asylum system, including taking the following initiatives: This box can be used to specify the units of the van der Waals constant'a '. Stop the possibility of staying by applying for asylum at the border with European countries. b. Establish asylum centres outside Europe where all asylum seekers arriving are sent while the application is being processed. It shall not be possible to apply for asylum directly at these centres. c. Using means of assistance to establish agreements with a safe third country in order to establish asylum centres. d. Using assistance to establish care centres for minor asylum seekers. in the early 20th century C.E. The protection of asylum-seekers receiving refugee status in a safe country is agreed upon in Norway.’» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to seek cooperation with Denmark to conclude an agreement of intent with Rwanda or other countries to establish asylum centres in third countries.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2262	During the debate, Mr Engen-Helgheim put forward four proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2365	Points 2 and 3 shall be added to points A I and III. The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2380	It shall be added to point A II and point III 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2390	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2404	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2418	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1-4, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit legislative proposals requiring children born abroad by a Norwegian mother or father to have a permanent relationship with and association with the biological parent who holds the Norwegian citizenship.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit legislative proposals requiring self-sufficiency in the last five years in order to obtain Norwegian citizenship. That is to say, the applicant must be self-sufficient in the meaning of having an employee income above a certain level or in training.» [[above the low income limit]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit legislative proposals requiring that citizenship cannot be granted if the applicant has received social assistance in the last five years.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit legislative proposals requiring the applicant for citizenship to have contributed to the integration of spouses, partners and children into Norwegian society. Self-governance must be actively prevented.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2457	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kjell Børge Freiberg on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Kjell Børge Freiberg on behalf of the Party for Progress proposal No 4, from Willfred Nordlund on behalf of the Senterpartiet
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2472	There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to ensure that the cost of required archaeological excavations on private property is borne by the State.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2489	There is a vote on proposal No. One from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with a comprehensive monitoring of the protection provisions in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2511	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner with a survey of Norway’s numerous safeguards and with proposals for a critical review of the protective provisions to prevent construction and of the body in charge of which provisions can be made.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with a concrete proposal for the public body to pay for required archaeological excavations on private property, which also investigates the private properties affected by such cultural memories.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2540	During the debate, Christian Tybring-Gjedde has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in a legislative change so that municipalities and county councils do not have the opportunity to pursue local foreign policy.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2570	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1–5, from Audun Lysbakken on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV the proposals No 6-9, from Audun Lighthouse on behalf of SV There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for full transparency if the content of the negotiations and contracts for all vaccine agreements Norway is part of.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2596	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6, 8 and 9, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government, through its chairmanship of the TRIPS Council, is asked to facilitate a process leading to an international consensus on a patent exemption that is wide enough to allow rapid and efficient growth in production. In this context, the Stortinget government is asking for communication that Norwegian authorities are in favour of a wide patent exemption for vaccines, medicines and other anti-pandemic technologies in low-income and middle-income countries.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a selection of Norwegian and international experts to investigate how publicly funded international research and development cooperation for vaccines and other medicinal products can look like, based on principles of open information sharing and decentralised production that can make all countries in the world more self-sufficient and less dependent on the pharmaceutical industry.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government of appropriate international forums is asked to take an initiative to develop a publicly funded and operated international research and development institute on antibiotics and anti-bacterial drugs, which can in turn form a model for a new global regime for the development of other types of medicinal products.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2632	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1–5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all Norwegian contributions to the research and development of medicinal products in the future are based on principles of knowledge sharing and open source.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to strengthen the WHO as a coordinating body for the fight against covid-19 and to introduce a common quality control of new covid-19 vaccines under the WHO.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked, if it is desirable from the WHO, to take the initiative to ensure that all vaccine technology Norway has contributed to funding, is made available in the WHO Covid-19 Technology Access Pool [[C-TAP]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in the WTO/TRIPS for an evaluation of patent waiver legislation, in order to improve the future functioning of the system of rapid local and regional self-sufficiency of the necessary medicinal products in future emergencies.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote requirements in the context of Norway’s contribution to the research and development of vaccines for full transparency of clinical results.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2679	In the course of the debate, Mr Lysbakken put forward a total of 15 proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2, 11 and 12, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Norway invites to a follow-up conference on the FACTI Panel’s report.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to renegotiate the tax agreements that have been criticised for being harmful.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased support for tripartite cooperation through development cooperation, including increasing support for the ILO’s work on decent business.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2710	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 3–10 and 13–15, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to take the initiative of a United Nations Convention on Taxation, with emphasis on the fight against tax havens and capital movements.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to conduct an investigation into the uniform taxation of multinational companies as an alternative to the OECD arm's length principle.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to initiate an international agreement on a minimum level of corporation tax in order to prevent different countries from competing to offer the lowest possible tax.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to give economic and political priority to supporting the United Nations Tax Committee and its work in order to upgrade it to an intergovernmental tax body.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to correctly design regulations on extended country-by-country reporting, so that companies are required to report on the size of accounts for all countries, including non-taxable countries. It should then apply to all sectors. Reporting must be standardised and all information made publicly available.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for untapped mechanisms to prevent and prevent tax evasion and offensive tax planning. This should include measures against the misuse of derivatives, digitised business-to-consumer sales and intra-group cost transactions, as well as a review of mark-to-market mechanisms, profit tax and other tax rules.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of Norwegian development work to assess the extent to which it counteracts inequality and to draw up a follow-up plan on how to set up Norwegian development work in order to counter inequalities and contribute more to redistribution.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that economic development in aid is balanced with distribution measures such as Tax on Development, Support for Trade Movements and Anti-Corruption Work.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review trade agreements and agreements with developing countries in order to ensure that they do not undermine the objectives of combating inequality.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to extend support to universal welfare schemes, including cash transfers, through the assistance budget.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government not to support public-private cooperation in primary and primary health services in developing countries. [[PPPs]] Private sector cooperation must be completely excluded if it involves increased user costs for the poor.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased support for human rights defenders and civil society organisations fighting economic inequality. In particular, support should be increased for local civil society actors involved in monitoring public budgets, who work to keep business accountable and who fight against corruption and illegal capital flight.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2793	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2812	During the debate, Mr Haltbrecken put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to return to Stortinget in connection with the State budget for 2022 with a major announcement on Norwegian climate finance by 2030. The notification shall assess how Norway can escalate its contribution to international climate finance in line with its legitimate responsibility.’;» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e2845	During the debate, Martin Kolberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 4 Supervision The Ombudsman may supervise the Defence. Within its competence under Section 1, the Ombudsman, without prejudice to professional secrecy and grading, has the right to any information and any document deemed necessary by the Ombudsman to carry out his duties under the law. Ombudsman has access to any location under the control of the Defence Agency. The defence shall facilitate the provision to the Ombudsman of information and access referred to in the second and third subparagraphs. The Ombudsman has the right to receive explanations from local staff. The explanations and who gave them are subject to professional secrecy. Following an inspection, the Ombudsman shall write a report. The report should identify any critical issues and make recommendations as to their need. The report shall be published, in so far as it does not contain any information relating to confidentiality or classified information, and shall be sent to the Ministry of Defence». Alternatively, this proposal and the suspension of Section 4 of the Committee shall be rejected. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e3094	All paragraphs are added to the rest of I.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e3104	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e3115	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e3147	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Siv Mossleth on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Siv Mossleth on behalf of the Center Party proposal No 3, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. Three from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to hold an advisory referendum on Norway to join the EU’s fourth railway package. Prop. [[2019-2020]] 101 LS shall be returned to the government pending the outcome of the referendum.» The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e3176	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for a new case to be brought by the Grand Duchy, where the opinions of the Supreme Court on 26 March 2021 relating to the extent of the transfer of powers by inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Directive 2012/34/EU on a single European railway area and the acts constituting the fourth railway package have been further assessed.’; Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e3193	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Prop. 101 LS Changes to the Railway Act etc. [[2019-2020]] [[fourth railway package]] and consent to the participation in two decisions of the EEA Committee on inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Directive 2012/34/EU on the common European railway area and the acts constituting the fourth railway package are returned to the Government. Consent cannot be given in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution, as this would involve more than a limited transfer of powers to international bodies Norway is not connected.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e3225	Has the President intended to take I and II together? You are in agreement with decisions of the EEA Committee, and II is in keeping with the opinion of the Court of Justice. After all, we were going to vote to attach the objection to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e3230	We can split it up. The Committee's position I is the first to be voted on. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e3248	It is then voted on the position II of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e3524	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e3537	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e3551	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e3563	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Øystein Langholm Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Bengt Fasteraune on behalf of the Centre Party and SV proposal No 6, from Bengt Fasterale on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. Six, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the whole country’s population to have access to high-speed broadband, at least 100 Mbit/s symmetrical broadband capacity, by 2025.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e3592	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. ‘The government is asking for a return to Stortingen with an investigation of improved measures ensuring effective competition where there is no basis for competition at infrastructure level, preventing consumer lock-in and ensuring neutrality and media pluralism in broadband networks.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e3654	They are first voted on III, IV and V. The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e3668	It shall be added to I, II, VI, VII and VIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e3687	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1-4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that no one loses the fixed telephone until they have mobile coverage or other telephone solutions with at least as good coverage as fixed telephone.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the development of a good and stable mobile network so that it is accessible to the entire population of the country, irrespective of their place of residence.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a plan for the deployment of mobile networks along all main roadways, both on land and sea.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests proposals to introduce public universal service obligations for high-speed broadband, a minimum of 100 Mbit/s in those areas where there is no basis for commercial expansion.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e3721	The size of the store is then reduced to the number of cases. 1 to 10 on the map of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e3733	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-4, from Björn Moxnes on behalf of Red. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 3 and 4, from Red. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «Members of the Government, State Secretaries and Political Advisors shall not be remunerated by retirement exceeding 62.4 per cent of previous monthly income.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘Article 15 first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: Representatives of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and permanent alternates who, after election, do not continue on the Grand Duchy may, upon application to the Presidentship of the Grand Duchy, be granted a retirement allowance equivalent to up to 62.4 per cent of the monthly remuneration referred to in the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 3, for up to three months. Supplementary remuneration under Section 5 or increased remuneration to the grossing-up president under the first sentence of Section 3, first paragraph, is not included in the calculation basis. The rules set out in this paragraph shall apply mutatis mutandis to permanent representatives of the respondent who step out of the Storting during the electoral period.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The second paragraph of Section 16 shall be replaced by the following: remuneration shall be 62.4 per cent of the remuneration referred to in the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 3. Supplementary remuneration under Section 5 or increased remuneration to the grossing-up president under the first sentence of Section 3, first paragraph, is not included in the basis of remuneration.» The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e3798	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. Two, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 2 shall be replaced by the following: § 2 Remunerations Representatives of the Grand Duchy, the Prime Minister and the members of the Government shall receive remuneration equal to 8, 14 and 10 times the basic amount of the Social Security Fund, respectively.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e3893	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e3903	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e3915	Mr Breivik has asked for the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e3920	Thank you. I have an explanation of voice for XI on behalf of the Left, Right and Christian People's Party. Of course, when the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Centre propose to ask the Government to facilitate the establishment of several production balls, an arrangement that today's Government Party got in place during the previous magnificence period, we support the proposal. Left, Christian People's Party and Right are going to vote for XI.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e3927	A total of 27 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-12, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 13 and 14, by Hanne Dyveke Sweets on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Party of the Centre and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 15–18, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. proposal No 19 from Hanne Dyveke Sweets on behalf of the Party of Advancement the proposals No 20 and 21, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 22-27, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 22–27, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to repeal the regulation on a 10 per cent absence limit in individual secondary education and to draw up a new legislation on absenteeism in dialogue with the sector.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a plan to strengthen the practice of assessment for higher education.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with a plan to link the systematic work of assessing learning to work on curricula, in particular to plan for learning.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a plan to develop the quality of the peer-reviewed language in higher education’.» Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a plan to strengthen the assessment competence and understanding of the assessment of learning by other actors outside school/learning establishments who can support the work of secondary schools.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with a plan to ensure a good framework for students to be given opportunities for participation and influence in secondary education.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e3993	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20 and 21, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government not to introduce the future subject as a new common subject, but to come back with proposals for a new division of skills and hours in which today’s common subject is continued to an extent which respects the general function of the subjects, their self-value and without leading to the prioritisation of only the subjects math, Norwegian and English.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government requests to divide the school year into semesters of training in a smaller number of subjects in each semester, and that subjects which currently cover more than one year are divided into smaller units with final assessment in order to meet the need for increased professional concentration and depth of understanding.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4015	There is a vote on proposal No. 19, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assign each of its chapters to the vocational and preparatory work in the upcoming Training Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4031	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15–18, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with a plan to strengthen the coherence and quality of in-flight and in-service assessment.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of how the structures of higher education, including the assessment schemes and the points and testimonial schemes, can be adjusted in order to improve learning and good mental health for students.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to come back with an analysis of how the current examination scheme can be supplemented by alternative assessment methods, such as directory assessment.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking in the context of proposals for the State budget for 2022 to increase the housing allowance for students living away from home and to adjust the training allowance so that non-resident students receive a cost disadvantage compared to pupils living in the home.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4065	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to increase the apprenticeship grant and to organise it so that it stimulates companies to offer apprenticeships to Vg1 students in the form of exchange models.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4082	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the right to introduce secondary education students who need it. Language training in Norwegian shall be integrated into this offer and the training shall be integrated into the student’s Vg1 course.’; The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4099	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-12, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to come back with concrete proposals for actions that qualify students and apprentices in higher education to achieve final competence, and to finance this.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with appropriate measures to get more students receiving special education and students with a need for organisation to complete secondary education.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to introduce an obligation for the county councils to work systematically and preventively with students in secondary education who are at risk of not passing the profession.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for close coherence between the planned strategy to improve the provision of disabled students and the overall grips of the Completion Reform. The government should involve the user organisations in the follow-up to the reform as a whole, and not just in the development of the strategy.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for an overall review of the professional and hourly distribution in secondary education, carried out in consultation with the actors concerned and anchored by them, and examining whether there is a need for hours in some subjects to be grouped in one semester.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to abandon the proposal for a new future post-secondary education’.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to abandon the proposal to dramatically reduce the number of subjects in general as a prerequisite for the review of the professional and hourly distribution in secondary education.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to improve the vocational correction of the common subjects in the vocational training programmes by directly linking and fully integrating education in the common subjects with the teaching of the programme subjects, including their own continuing training provision for teachers.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to launch pilot projects in foreign language digital education in secondary schools where the student base is not large enough in the individual subject and/or school does not have access to qualified teachers. The project will look into whether this can help to ensure equal opportunities for students in smaller schools with fewer courses. The size asks the government to put in place mechanisms for increased appropriations for participating states and, in addition, to carry out a follow-up evaluation of the pilot projects.’;» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a plan to return to Stortinget to strengthen students’ participation in the assessment work in higher education.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to organise the responsibility for vocational training in the Department and the Directorates in such a way as to ensure overall management and responsibility for curriculum development and for cooperation with the social partners.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: «The government is asked to review the financing of secondary education with a view to meeting the labour market's skills needs and to a sufficiently decentralised distribution of vocational education and training programmes.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4237	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4257	The President has reason to believe that there is unanimity for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4375	In the course of the debate, Nina Sandberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Education and Research Committee. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2021 amends Cape. Post Purpose Kroner 288 International cooperation actions 73 The EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, may be transferred, increased by 92 072 000 from NOK 2 529 593 000 to NOK 2 621 665 000’;» The proposal is to replace you in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4508	During the debate, Mr Melvær presented a proposal on behalf of the Right. The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4662	It is contested by the third paragraph of Section 45(b). Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4676	The rest of the I, all the paragraphs, are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4687	II The law will come into force immediately. The law shall be repealed on 1 December 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4698	Alternatively, votes shall be taken between the Committee's position II and the proposal of the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘II The law shall enter into force immediately’. The Left and Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposal. The Progress Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4719	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4729	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4747	The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. 12 and the next speaker is the Council of State Monica Meland.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4752	I would advise against the winding-up of the Santa Claus Institute for festivities of land for housing and leisure purposes. Consideration should be given to the fastenings which imply that the right to land fastenings granted by the law today to the parties to choose between the continuation of the fastening and the redemption of the land should be continued. I notice that the representatives of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left write that the aim of the proposal is not to force the parties to redeem their plots, but that all the parties should have a right to redemption. At the same time, the proposal for a representative is to liquidate land for residential and recreational property. It is quite difficult to imagine how to achieve full liquidation within a clear time without either forcing the parties to redeem their plots to a greater or lesser extent, or by significant financial support measures from the State. A full winding-up could also raise difficult questions, including: on the relationship with the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. As regards the exemptions from the redemption right of state and rural public opinion and Finnmark properties in Finnmark and the so-called agricultural exemption, these different interests are protected. A proposal to lift the derogations is expected to be met with considerable resistance from the parties concerned, as the hearings also show. I finally mentioned that, in view of the parties, it is primarily the older party agreements that may be problematic. It would therefore not make any good sense to prohibit new agreements without being able to achieve the liquidation of the old ones. Santa Claus is a demanding area to regulate. The Law on Landings has been amended many times, and there are a large number of types of contracts with varying content, concluded at different times and under different legal regimes. By the amendments adopted in 2015, I believe that the law balances the conflicting interests of the parties and parties in an appropriate way. We believe that new legislative changes will lead to further complicated legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4773	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4778	I believe the council and I'm quite a few that this is a complicated area. In the right and right options, the Progress Party states that there is a primary need for predictability and calm in this case. Does the Council of State mean that today's law on the land is «predictability and tranquillity»?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4785	In and separately yes and no. It implies predictability because you know what's going on, and then 6 years of working time is quite short for a law related to agreements that go through 20–30–40–100 years. As far as calm is concerned, this is an area where there is a lot of debate, discussion and dispute, but I just have to say that I am a little surprised if you think that this proposal should lead to calmness. A proposal in Stortinget now on the liquidation of the law, refusing the conclusion of new party contracts, I don't think will lead to peace. The size has now been working for a few years to eliminate fur animal nutrition. If you look at the turmoil around it, I think you've just seen the first letter of what this would lead to. If you want to get calm, I don't think either the proposal of the representatives or in particular the law adds up to it, but I think it gives predictability; everyone now knows what's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4792	I believe the council and I'm a few. The law does not represent calmness, and the fact that he was to be terminated, to start a legal work, would probably not contribute to the peace of the first. But does the Council of State see that when it comes to a law that is so complicated, as a pretext for so big a dispute, it would have been an advantage if the legislator and the government had started a broader distribution work instead of closing the eye and thinking that yes, this is the best we can do? Because I admit that the changes that have been made both under the previous government and under this government show that we are not able to find a fair balance, that we are not able to obtain a law that is good for them. Does the Council of State feel that it is entirely inappropriate to sort out possibilities that could lead to a much better situation for both the landowners and the landowners?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4799	If I had thought a change was right, I would have recommended it. I don't. That's because we've tried to find adjustments to improve the law, to contribute to a smaller number of disputes, at regular intervals, both under the previous government and this government. One has come up a little bit, but not quite. I don't think we're there now that we see any better option. Then it had to be because they thought, as the representative does, that it would be liquidated. It was in itself a good position in the sense that then you knew what was the goal of the change. But to now try, very shortly after last, to find new ways to balance the relationship – where I think a law work would simply not be appropriate. I also do not agree that one went too far in being a landowner. I also believe that the things we have seen have shown. This is the second time EMK is dealing with a matter. In both cases, there are founders who believe that the rules are not fair and balanced.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4804	I was the case spokesman for the changes in 2015. Then the government slightly adjusted its proposal to a party fee, because there were good reasons to claim that the proposal that was leading from the government went far too far in favor of the landowners. Does the Council of State see that by launching a legal work or a distribution, one could potentially find answers that neither the Council of State nor I have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4809	Potentially, that might be the case, but we're in a situation where we have a lot to do, and then you just have to give priority. I think politics is about priorities. This law is not perfect, it has potential for improvement, but I believe that time is now not in place to get that work going without one having to know where you want to go. So there we disagree, the government and the representatives behind the proposal, on what should be the objective of such a change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4815	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4822	I read a prophecy about how this debate was going to go. It was on the press in some medium in North Norway yesterday, I think. It was written that the debate was going to go as follows: Lene Vågslid is going to say that the Santa Claus Act is out of date, Peter Frölich is going to say that it is totally unrealistic and naive to wind up the Santa Claus Act, and the worst thing is that both are right. That was the prediction. And I think we can say that we agree with the author of the text that it's about the way the debate has gone and is going to go, and it's going to do it for years to come as well. Then I must be able to stress that I have a little extra faith in our own conclusion that what the Workers' Party has put on the table today is both naive and unrealistic. I almost have to praise the Workers' Party in order to get to those degrees and jump into not only – now I do not have any descriptions – waffles and minefields, and you can walk in the salad, but this is almost like trotting into a volcano. It blows as you touch away on this theme. There are 300,000 individual agreements where people have millions of dollars in interests in one direction or another. You take one step in the wrong direction, you risk breaking the EMK and the Constitution, and you take one step in the other direction, you risk breaking the EMK and the Constitution. Then it is quite brave to go in for a total liquidation of the Law on Landing. I think that's what I'd ended up with, like, bullying and cracking. One thing is that we hadn't been able to find the balance. The second is this subtle clarification that this is to be done without coercion. That's interesting, because if you're going to do 300,000 plots without coercion, you have to be very good at asking nicely. And if you don't get your will, you might have to pay extremely much to get people to sign their respective agreements. Then I think the billions -- maybe tens of billions, maybe hundreds of billions -- had started rolling for the state. All in all, there's a solution I think would have gone wrong. We must probably plant our feet well on the ground again and find out that the law of Santa Claus is perhaps a living from the past in many ways, it is pervasive and has its sides, but it also works in general. It can be adjusted where it's needed; we've seen that. So I think we'll look to the future and possibly how better contractual solutions and contractual institutions can enter more into where Santa Claus may have lost some of its function and the time has run from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4837	I allow myself to boast of an unusually good post from the previous speaker. It is so rare that the representative Frølich and I are a few, that I have to take advantage of the opportunity to say so, when we are only a few. I mentioned at the end of my first post that the Labour Party proposals do not solve any of the problems proposed by the proposers as a basis for their proposals. These problems relate to contracts concluded before 01.01.2002 and in particular to contracts where the parties have agreed that the fixed fee should be regulated on the basis of land value. Here the authorities have intervened with both long-term price regulation and legislation that has seen side by side legally agreed terms, all for the benefit of Santa Claus. Although something else was legally agreed and both parties must have had a legitimate expectation that the contract would be held, the currently fixed fee can, as a general rule, only be regulated according to the consumer price index. Furthermore, fasteners are entitled to extension for an indefinite period and, as a general rule, are entitled to redemption under the favourable conditions of the law. The centre party refers to the fact that contracts concluded from 01.01.2002 are not problematic; they have been concluded for an indefinite period. The fixed charge may be regulated, as I just mentioned, and any redemption shall be made at 25 times the fixation fee. Here both sides know what they have to stick to. The centre party believes that a ban against the principle of freedom of contract, and that a ban could lead to reduced land access and higher construction costs, and therefore even affect what kind of groups in society will afford to build a house or a cabin. The centre party believes it is better to allow the market to manage any liquidation, if this type of plot is no longer requested.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4850	I will not help to prolong the debate too much, but there are some interesting interpretations of the Labour Party's proposal, both in the short and long term, to put it that way. Let me stress that we believe that such a winding-up would provide a thorough legal work. The size does not depend on how the government works, but of course the formulation means such an arrangement. We are disunity in Saga, also the Labour Party and the Center Party. And that's not a big problem, I mean. A red-green government would in any case benefit this country greatly when it comes to both agricultural and rural policy. But why does the Labour Party now promote this proposal? Isn't that obvious? It's because it's important to us, and because we wanted to see if there was a plurality in the Storting for this proposal. Per-Willy Amundsen from the Progress Party says in his post that they are positive to parts of it. I should like them to be able to answer that with the clear instructions for a broader legal work. Then it was polite, the post to Peter Frølich and the prediction of the debate today. This debate is probably a bit presumptuous, we've seen it this way many times before. But if that's the case that Right thinks we're trotting in the salad, I guess I could say that it looks like the Right is stuck in the mud.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4861	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4878	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4885	The case concerns a proposal from the Progress Party to allow police access to so-called "visitation zones" in particularly criminalised areas. Proposals seek the introduction of visitation zones, which, according to them, allow police in specific areas particularly vulnerable to crime to carry out visits without any specific suspicion of criminality. The majority of the Judicial Committee does not support this proposal. All other parties in the Committee are also concerned with the need to combat serious crime, both through prevention and clear responses to crime. In the last year, the size of the population has also dealt with a number of cases of recriminalism and measures against young people committing repeated crime. With regard to the proposal of the Progress Party, the first is that no Norwegian police have been requested. Secondly, the situation in Denmark and the United Kingdom, to which the proposers refer, is not directly comparable to the situation in Norway. As the Council of State writes in its reply to the Committee, clear criteria are set for the instruments available to the police. Police preventive measures are implemented before criminal offences are suspected. The aim is to prevent crime. It is only when there is suspicion or reasonable reason to believe that a criminal offence has been committed that the police have access to the use of coercive measures as a search. The Council of State further points out in the letter of reply that there is a possibility of a visit outside the criminal record in Section 7(a) of the Police Act, opening so that the police can search a person or a vehicle in a public place, but in accordance with more detailed provisions if there is reason to examine whether someone is in possession of or holds weapons. There are strict restrictions on this possibility. Thus, there are clear conditions and conditions for out-of-trafficking visits, both to meet the requirements of the European Convention on Human Rights, the EMC, and the Constitution for Private Intervention, and to prevent, as far as possible, arbitrary and arbitrary or indiscriminate discrimination. All batches on the Stortinget, except the Advance Party, believe that visiting zones are not a wise or appropriate measure. The majority of the Committee agrees with the assessment in the State Council's letter of reply to the Committee that today's provision well balances the possibility of visitation and the consideration of those affected by the intervention and that we cannot see that these are measures that should now be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4900	The Progress Party has a proud history of proposing, developing and presenting new proposals in many areas, especially in the field of justice. We did that when we sat in government, and we do that in opposition. It is also good to see that by a shifting majority, together with the red-green and also with the government parties, we have had a significant impact on the field of crime, in particular on child, youth and gene crime. We are very pleased with that. In this way, this is a new proposal. We have learned from our neighbouring countries, our European friends in the United Kingdom and Denmark. The whole idea behind the visitation zones is that, in a limited area, within a limited period of time, there can be the possibility for the police to search people without having the normal regulatory constraints of today. But it's for a limited period of time and in a limited geographical area, and so it's based on a situational assessment that it's especially necessary, and so proportionality is taken into account. For example, in the United Kingdom and Denmark, there are situations where there are in particular confrontations between different gene communities, and where to save life and health depends on the use of rapid measures to attract especially weapons from the street. It has good statistics. I think that has good results. For the United Kingdom, it was found in the period 2017/2018 that weapons were brought in from 17 p.m. in England and Wales. of those who were stopped in that type of visitation and gave subsequent arrests, and in 13 pst. other types of action had to be taken. So it's very effective; it's very active. In Denmark this has been used repeatedly, last year in Aarhus, and so it has been done with very good results since 2007. Then I think it's a little strange that you're so totally rejecting from all the other parties when we come up with what I think is a sensible, good proposal that could equip the police even better to combat recrimination. I'm recording that it's going down, but we're not giving up on it. I refer to the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4913	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4918	The majority have recently dealt with a number of issues concerning both recrimination and stricter penalties, and the Progress Party has presented its method in all the cases, and that is a hard hand. The harder the hand, the more we will deter criminals. The underlying thing here is that these are the juvenile criminals in Oslo they want to live, and they also want to hit the immigrants who live in Oslo East. That is what is the underlying tone and the point of attack in this proposal as well. There is contempt for this kind of proposal. The striking thing about this and previous proposals is the total lack of proposals. They don't even try to prove what this really is about. In this proposal, there is no evidence as to how big or not a problem this is, or whether there is really any problem at all. There is no evidence as to how the proposal might turn out. Per-Willy Amundsen says from the pulpit that he refers to yours and yours in other countries. There is no proper evidence in the representative’s proposal itself on how this will turn out. There is no definition of what crime-prone areas are. A fluffy tongue actually said to me a few days ago that he called a peninsula in Oslo West of the villain, for it was in his opinion on that island and in the area it was probably the most tax evasion. The progress party cares a little about it. It is definitely also areas in the Oslo West that are subject to crime from such a point of view. Nor are there any alternative considerations in this proposal on how crime in these areas could have been altered by, for example: preventive measures. There's nothing about it. It is also striking that the police are not asking for this measure either, and the Progress Party should really listen very carefully. It's very nice that the Council of State also argues that when you go into this, you have to have very clear human rights regulations to prevent this from happening very badly. It is clear that if this proposal had gone through, it would lead to a violent climb against both certain parts of Oslo and certain groups. It would definitely hit immigrant youth very hard, and the police would obviously experience that they would find it even more difficult to build trust in this group. It is a problem in Norway today that many minors who are real and law-abiding and behave properly experience that they are constantly being controlled by the police. We have discussed this earlier in Stortinget. Norway has even been criticised by the United Nations for this very relationship. Fortunately, there is little support for this. The majority today takes a very reasonable decision by rejecting this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4935	I fully agree with the majority in the Committee that serious crime should be combated both through prevention and clear responses to crime. Police are already in a position to search for a person or vehicle in a public place where there are grounds to examine whether anyone is in possession of, or holds, weapons, if the specified conditions are met. Clear conditions and conditions of visitation have been established, both to meet requirements for privacy intervention and to prevent arbitrary and arbitrary or indiscriminate discrimination. Today’s provisions weigh well the possibility of visits and the consideration of those affected by the intervention. Any extension of the scope of the visit will require thorough investigations into the right to privacy and the need to avoid arbitrary and indecent discrimination. I cannot see that this is a measure that should be assessed now. I am pleased that the majority in the Committee joins in this assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4946	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4951	I would like the Council of State to be a little more precise with regard to her assessment of this proposal against the European Convention on Human Rights, the EMC, simply because in her letter to the Committee - the opinion of the proposal - it is a little suspended whether the Department and the Council of State consider that proposals like this are contrary to the EMC and, in particular, to the Constitution. Can the Council of State clarify her intention with the letter she sent to the Committee to suggest that a proposal such as this is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights and contrary to the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4956	With all due respect, I don't think it'll be possible to answer, simply because the proposal is too general, too little clear, to mean anything about it. And I guess that's what I'm saying, that we had to do thorough research. The proposal suggests that geography determines the right to search or a visitation, and it is clear that it must be the specific situation and an assessment of the person on which it is based. So I don't believe in a proposal that assumes that in some places you can make a visit completely independent of suspicion. But I certainly believe that you can explore a space of action here if you think that this tool is necessary, and look at how you can hit it in a way that makes it legal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4961	It is true that every piece of legislation will have thorough investigations, and it is not as simple as some representatives have stated in the debate here, that this is something that is just passed over the table. It will always be done thoroughly, the department must of course work on the matter before presenting it to the Stortinget with concrete proposals. But all the time you're suggesting that it's contrary to EMK and contrary to the Constitution, it's a very easy way to cut off the proposal, and it's a technique that I often experience being run by the Department of Justice and also by politicians in this room. In order not to rule on the matter, one chooses to make an indirect claim that it may be contrary to human rights and against the Constitution to make such a proposal. In all the situations where it has happened, I have experienced that I have been wrong. My question to the Council of State is: If the United Kingdom and Denmark do this, can it not be contrary to the EMK?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4969	As I said, there's probably ways to hit this. I'm not trying to push the Constitution or human rights in front of me. I have replied that I believe that this is not something we need, and then it will depend entirely on how you hit it. A law that said that anyone who goes to Karl Johan can be visited at any time and without any suspicion, I don't think I want. I'm very sure that would be contrary to both the Constitution and human rights. But then it's probably going to hit this in other ways, if you thought this was a tool you needed. I think we have a law that covers the needs of the police. Should that change, you would have to come back to Stortinget with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4976	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4983	I think it's important to understand that with the framework and assumptions underlying – A) temporaryity, B) geographical delimitation, C) time delimitation, and that it should be proportionate, i.e. to ensure that it is only in acute, particularly demanding situations that can be applied, in line with how to deal with it both in the United Kingdom and in Denmark – it comes within European human rights and, of course, the Constitution. It is an excellent solution, and it is a matter of intrusion – as the Council of State is concerned to the extent that it is. What I wish was that you were a little bit more open to this kind of proposal, which has shown good results. It works well in the United Kingdom, and it works well in Denmark. This has been used in Denmark since 2007. You use it all the time, you pull weapons out of the street, you save lives, and you save health with this measure. That is why I think we need it too. The Council of State and others would like you to say that you don’t need it. But the day you need it, it's important to have it in the drawer. That is what we want to discuss, and that is why we are promoting these proposals. It is also true that it is not only in Denmark, the United Kingdom and, to some extent, also in some areas of the United States that it has been used and used. It is also planned to do the same in Sweden. Yes, you heard right: Sweden. I am not going to talk about Swedish states, but both the Christian Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates – that is, the Swedish Right – have gone in to introduce visiting zones. If there is a change of government in our neighbouring country, this is one of the measures that the Swedish government wants to introduce. That's a little bit interesting. I wish they had that ability to think again also in the sister parties of both the Moderates, that is, the Right, and the Christian Democrats, which is the Norwegian Christian People's Party. Here we have the opportunity, and I record that it's going to be downgraded, but we're facing it. When we get a review, it's kind of because we've suggested that x times earlier. We were given a ban on sibling childhood, but it was probably the tenth time we proposed it. It's the first time we're promoting this proposal now, but we'll probably get back to it in the next big period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e4994	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5011	I'll make it short. The 2020 annual report from the Justice and Home Affairs Committee shows that there has been an increase in payments from the previous year – the total was 25.2 million. kr, an increase of 3.5 million. kr. The increase is explained by the selection that the average payment per case has been higher than in 2019. The Committee also notes that the average duration of proceedings has increased slightly from 2019 to 2020 and that it can be explained mainly as a result of the covid-19 pandemic. The Committee also recalls the decision taken by the Storting from November 2020, which called for the judicial compensation scheme to be better known and better informed as a compensation scheme, and that the Committee believes it is important that those who receive compensation be aware of the scheme. We look forward to being briefed on this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5020	Judicial compensation is the Storting's own scheme. Not full compensation is provided, but compensation for damage in cases where there is a public wrong. It is a relief when the authorities agree that what you have experienced should not happen. The compensation is called remuneration, and is a recognition that wrong has been committed. This arrangement has an important function in which it is not possible to obtain remuneration by any other means. Many of the issues dealt with here are matters that come from school. There may be a lack of intervention in bullying, lack of or lack of training at school, or a lack of warning about child protection. These are aspects that should be avoided for today’s children and young people. The Christian People's Party will strengthen its efforts to combat bullying, including: by providing school leaders and teachers with better skills to prevent, detect and combat bullying and by responding to worrying behaviour. The bullying agents must be strengthened. The Christian People's Party will also ensure that all students can receive support from safe teachers, sufficient food resources and enhanced school health services, and we want to give the school health service the opportunity to refer to the BUP. It is important to ensure students' right to a safe and good school environment. Many of the cases dealt with by the Justice Compensation Board are also related to domestic matters. The Christian People's Party will therefore strengthen early efforts, preventative measures and support for families, so that as much as possible can grow up in its family and community. We will strengthen the provision of assistance and treatment for children and young people who are victims of, or witnesses to, violence in close relationships. The Christian People's Party believes that it is important to facilitate closer cooperation between healthcare, healthcare, family services, school, outreach and police to get in earlier, so that the child is better cared for. The treatment period for legal compensation has increased to 18 months in 2020. At the same time, Stortinget has asked the government to ensure that the justice system is better known and better informed about as a compensation scheme. Most of the cases are dealt with by the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family Affairs and by the Directorate for Education. In view of the increasing duration of treatment and the expected increase in the number of cases in 2022, this scheme should be strengthened. The Christian People's Party here signals that we want to strengthen the Bufdir and Education Directorate to reduce treatment time to less than 12 months. and order the proceedings to be settled on the basis of the increase in the amount of the application.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5035	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5052	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5059	Thank you to the Committee for a good contribution to this matter, and also to the staff of the Norwegian Institute for Human Rights, NIM, who may be following this debate. I want to say as a case rapporteur and to the extent also as a big business politician that I think they are doing a very good job. The NIM law is to promote and protect human rights in Norway. NIM is reduced by the Storting, they report to the Storting, and as a constitutional starting point, they have a duty of state authorities to guarantee human rights, and that it also applies to the Storting. So it's not a prerogative here, so the Storting can't just leave responsibility here to the government. NIM has presented six areas that they consider to be a priority in the report. I'm not going to go into them. In all six areas they've also made some recommendations, which I'm going to go through very briefly. One is human rights in a time of crisis, which we have just been through. They address how the pandemic has led to some measures that may be too invasive, and they also make some recommendations, including: related to the increased use of the consultation centre and the need to be more appropriate to take account of different groups. As a second point, they point out that Norway needs to adapt to the way in which part of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, the EMD, have been rendered effective in the area of child protection. They may feel that Norway has not been sensitive enough to the judgments that have come there. They also make a clear recommendation in this area. They're taking up the work and the decision support. They believe that today's concept of work organisation is out of date and they want to introduce another decision support system. They also put in a recommendation related to it. They're taking up something that's a repetition of the Storting, isolation in prison. They refer to both the Civil Ombudsman and, in so far as the European Convention on Human Rights, the EMC, and make clear recommendations on how the Storting should adopt a practice with regard to the possibility of prisoners in common and out of time. They raise a point on the right of consultation. This is most related to indigenous peoples and how they need to be consulted more strongly than has been the case in the past. They have very specific formulations that relate to that very thing. Perhaps the most exciting and eye-catching thing is that they also address the relationship between human rights and climate change — they refer to both Norwegian legislation and international conventions — and how they link climate commitments and human rights, and they make clear recommendations related to it. I just want to say in conclusion, in ten seconds, that we've got a very strong and fine institution here that the Storting should listen to, and that the Storting also listens to, and it's important that we deal with what they come with, with both consideration, respect and thorough factuality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5082	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5087	I will. I take up SV's suggestion, and I come back and argue for them in my next post.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5092	The representative Petter Eide has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5097	Thanks to the case manager for a good job. I would also like to thank NIM for a very thorough and good report. We know how central human rights are also now in times of crisis. We have seen it in the work of the Korona Act in March 2020, where we saw the need for the Stortinget to ensure that the rule of law was respected, and that human rights are also well cared for in a crisis. The NIMs are included in this report, we think of it as a continuation of NIM's recordings throughout the coronary crisis, and we think they are important and relevant in the learning that must be the consequence of the crisis, and the evaluation that will come from it. The report is divided into several themes, and I want to refer to the Workers' Party's comments. In the area of child protection, the Labour Party has addressed several of the challenges that have arisen in the past, including: during the debate on the throne, we suggested that an expert selection be set up to review Norwegian child protection with a view to improving legal certainty in all stages of the service, and that the best interests of the child should be at the heart of the selection process. It was consensual. When it comes to defence and decision support, the Labour Party's attitude and policy are also clear, and we share the view that the defence system must change. I would like to refer to the proposal made by the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV during the examination of Document 8:77 S, to strengthen the protection scheme in line with the CRPD. When it comes to that part of the report about the possibilities they have in common and out of time, my colleague Maria Aasen-Svensrud will comment on it from the Labour Party. When it comes to the right and obligation of consultation, I refer to the comments, which we recommend to the Municipal and Administrative Committee, that the NIM's recommendation at this point be addressed and dealt with in an appropriate way. Finally, NIM also believes that authorities should consider the creation of an independent Climate Commission with a legal mandate to provide advice on emissions and to monitor compliance with human rights climate obligations. There is no doubt that in the Labour Party, we believe that climate problems are one of the most demanding problems we face, and that climate change is evident to be capable of threatening human rights in different ways. It is also referred to in the report that states and companies are more often accused of climate change emissions worldwide, and that at least 40 such actions are based on human rights. We also point out in our remarks that there may be good reasons to deal with such a climate commission, but that one must do so in cooperation and in line with the Climate Act, which is now under treatment in Stortinget. Otherwise, I refer you to the proposal we make with the SV and the Center Party, where we ask the government to draw up and implement a comprehensive plan to ensure the overview and coordinated follow-up of individual departments of the recommendations of the international monitoring bodies to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5118	The NIM’s 2020 Annual Report points to key developments and challenges and gives us a good overview in the field of human rights. NIM is also clear in its priorities and recommendations. NIM has chosen to present six main themes with recommendations. Main theme 1 deals with human rights in crisis. This is an important theme in the light of the situation in our country and the rest of the world. In the right we are some with NIM in that high awareness of the relationship to Constitution and human rights is especially important in a crisis. At such times, there may be a risk that human rights will come into the shadow. In particular, this may be the first time when the situation is most undecided. This was also pointed out by the Corona Commission in NOU 2021: 6. The evaluations and processes related to the basis for the disease prevention measures were not always as good in the early days, but the government quickly seized this and improved the processes both in terms of proportionality assessments and hearings, which the Commission also pointed out that they had noticed. We're a long way off in NIM's recommendations, but we see that this is a point that will or will be followed up by the responsible departments. The pandemic has given us many experiences that will be important to take forward. In this way, we can afford to be even better equipped to cope with similar crises in the future. The annual notification has recommendations in several areas. Children’s protection, isolation in prisons and shelters were also mentioned and recommended in the annual report for 2019. In these areas, statutory audits have been started or completed. The new Child Protection Act will be debated here in Stortinget on 9 June. In the proposition, the relationship to human rights obligations is strengthened in line with relevant laws and conventions in this area. The consultation obligations and the right to consult between Stortinget and Sametinget will be exercised, as the previous speaker said, in the Innst. 620 L for 2020-2021 from the Municipal and Administrative Committee. When it comes to the recommendations in paragraph 6, climate and human rights, we are some with the Ministry of Climate and Environment that it will continue to be the Environment Directorate in future, in consultation with relevant professional bodies to provide the climate-disciplinary basis on which to base the political decisions of the Stortinget. We also believe that the reporting rules in the Climate Act provide for the need for control by the government of compliance with and compliance with the climate obligations. In addition, ESA shall monitor and assess compliance of Norway with climate commitments in line with the climate agreement with the EU. We think that there is no need to solve the creation of an independent climate commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5135	After all, human rights are nothing. I think it's timely to point out when I read the written exercises of the NIM. At least where I come from, and with my ideological starting point, there are simply some human rights standing above everything else. These are the fundamental human rights. I record that when I read this case, it is very much about relative – let's say – marginal things. The fact that an entire chapter, one of six important areas, has been devoted to the right of consultation and consultation and links it to ILO Convention No. 169 and says that it's a human right, that's what you choose to engage in, it seems to me a little special, a little funny, all the time Norway joined ILO Convention No. 169 in 1991. That was 30 years ago. That means we've been breaking human rights for 30 years. Of course, that can't be right, and at my discretion, it's quite obvious that this isn't a human right. It's like you're choosing to pull things out. That's the same thing about climate. Climate is politics. It's not human rights. The obligation of consultation for municipalities and the Stortinget in relation to the Sameting is not human rights. It's politics. This is the subject of the ‘justification’ of the human rights we see at political point by political point. There are some things here that I very much agree with, but part of that argument and part of the claims that come out are, in my opinion, purely left-wing policy. You wrap it up and you call it human rights. The Party is opposed to the obligation to consult. We're against ILO Convention No. 169. We believe that it is the Stortinget and the politicians who will control what climate action we are going to use or not use. That doesn't mean we're violating human rights for that reason. I would have asked myself that in a way, human rights should be politicised to the extent that I experience NIM contributes to. So I actually allow myself to be critical of NIM's work and how important that work really is, in the context of which issues they choose to prioritise.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5150	I want to thank NIM for a good and important report. I'm glad that NIM in the report has recorded human rights in times of crisis. 2020 was a special year for all of us, and when major crises affect us, it is important to make sure that measures, rules and laws take care of human rights. It is serious that Norway was sentenced four times in the EMK in 2020 in connection with the Child Protection Area. This is a multi-year NIM theme. Differences between the human rights of children and parents must also be taken into account in the political debate in the future. The Centre Party has pointed out in the alternative budget the lack of inclusion in municipal child protection and the availability of ear-marked means to strengthen this field. This is pointed out by the organisations of those added, by the Barneombode and by the Health Inspectorate. NIM, like the Centre Party, is busy with defence and decision support. We notice that NIM thinks there is a need for a change in the protection system in line with the provisions of the CRPD. I refer to the proposal recently made by the Central Party with the Workers' Party and SV in the context of the management of Documents 8:77 S for 2020-2021, to strengthen and improve the protection system. Insulation in prison is a topic we have debated a lot, and this is very serious — it is a topic that is important and serious. We are all well aware of the recommendations contained in the Special Notice to the Stortinget. The centre party has shown that these recommendations need to be followed up. Unfortunately, between the second annual report of the Directorate of Criminal Welfare, the activity of the inmates has declined both because of the pandemic and because of fewer prison admissions. Case Spokespersons Eide had a nice review of the themes from the report, so I don't repeat everything here. But I would also like to stress that the recommendations of NIM provide a good basis for the political assessments of the Grand Duchy and the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5164	NIM addresses important issues in the Annual Report, and I will highlight in particular the following theme: human rights in times of crisis, defences and conditions for prisoners. Since March 2020, we have had completely new experience in crisis management. There have been and are still need for difficult cross-cutting balances. The State is obliged to protect the lives and health of its population, and the IPR provides wide powers to take action to protect society. At the same time, measures may interfere with other rights. Human rights and the Code require all measures to be proportionate and not more restrictive than necessary. The Ministry of Health and Welfare aims to carry out a comprehensive review of the Code of Disease Protection. The deposit will then be invited to review the powers of the law. The government will take with it the NIM's input and experience of this crisis in future assessments of how human rights can best be safeguarded in times of crisis. Being able to shape your own life is important to us, even for people with reduced cognitive skills. We are working in line with NIM’s recommendations on changes to the Code of Conduct to ensure decision support, so that self-determination and personal autonomy can be ensured as far as possible for all. This does not mean, however, that we want to liquidate the defence institution as such, since it provides the necessary safeguards for the dependence on drugs and gambling and for the exploitation of those who cannot easily defend their own interests. The government has taken a number of measures to help all prisoners have acceptable conditions in prison. This is important, not least to reduce the risk of new crime. The regulatory framework is reviewed, inter alia: in order to ensure a clear legal framework for exclusion from the Community and the use of coercion. However, the regulatory framework should not be developed in a vacuum without an eye for what is realistic to achieve. For the time being, it is most important to ensure that all prisoners have a minimum of meaningful human contact every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5177	I want to draw attention to child protection in this regard. The Supreme Court has found that there is no conflict between Norwegian child protection legislation and the European Convention on Human Rights, but that there is a need for an adjustment of child protection practices in some areas — in particular the decision-making bases and justifications of the child protection authorities and the courts. NIM, Norway’s human rights institution, points out that failure to respect the right to family life under Article 8 of the EMC in child protection cases poses a recurring human rights challenge in Norway. Norway is criticised for leaving the reunification objective in several cases. NIM also suggests that the criticism of Norway is linked to the fact that the decision-making processes leading up to the decisions have not been good enough in view of the extent to which such decisions have been taken. The Christian People's Party is now pleased that the Ministry of Children and Family has placed great emphasis on human rights considerations in the design of the new Child Protection Act, where these decisions in the EMD and the Supreme Court have been central to the work. The Christian People's Party wants to strengthen early efforts, prevention and support for families, so that as much as possible can grow up in its family and community. Child and family care must be available in all municipalities, so that more parents can be helped in their parenting role before the need for child protection is addressed. Whenever a child has to leave home, it is important that the child’s opinion is heard, and that the child chooses his/her own figures. The Christian People's Party wants both children and parents to be entitled to free legal aid from a case to be established. The Christian People's Party will strengthen the rights of children's children, the right to be heard and involved and the opportunity to complain about the services they receive. In addition, the introduction of child protection services in all municipalities should be ensured at the beginning of each elected period. The Christian People's Party will work for increased treatment capacity in municipal child protection, enough foster homes, enough institutional facilities to provide all children with an offer tailored to the individual's needs, enough capacity in the counties to ensure rapid treatment, better supervision, training and guidance for foster homes, as well as increased rights to follow-up and discussion with the individual child. The Christian People's Party is pleased that a new child protection law further strengthens children's right to participation and that community rules are proposed to clarify the objective of reunification between parents and children.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5196	I have listened to some of the posts. They're a little troubling, because there's some people who think that the jessen represents, as natural science does, final answers. So you're almost reporting. I really thought it was the report from NIM that was being treated here, but there are several parties that advertise for their own opinions on how to live up to the standards, which are set by a random group of people who, according to desire and need, play in dilemmas. None of the matters that my fellow representatives have been involved in in previous posts has gained anything by going to the door of an annual report. These are key questions that you can discuss in a normal way. Maybe you can also get a department into it, which is also able to give it a professional depth and balance to other conditions. What I want with this is to say that what is now threatening human rights in Norway is a flood of words and that you think it's a finer kind of juss. The problem is that the Storting loses in this. Our democratic institutions are weakened when we make it unclear what is politics, and what is governance. These are political actors no one has chosen. They're making someone here think that it's clean when they argue for some solutions. We also see this phenomenon in several so-called representations. There are people who have really been lost for party politics, but they are unable to meet ordinary people, sit and drink coffee with them and hear, because they are offered a different career: power and influence directly into this assembly – for those who are fooled – but without responsibility. Because they can run from that if any of these recommendations don't prove to be true to the expectations. I also think it is quite remarkable that in the annual report for 2020, there is no one who dwells on – apart from a side note from my party trap – that NIM, who should be up-to-date with regard to human rights, has submitted a letter of support to the climate action target against the state. So you're undermining the state's position. The point of this -- I'm going to draw up a three-minute insert -- is that the climate action target was not a climate action target. There was a dispute about who might have to change the oil policy in this country. Some believe that this can be pushed forward by a subtle interpretation of the new section 112 of the Basic Law, but then one has not studied the background of the matter, and again we show that it is politics and not juss. [[The President clubs.]] [[The President Clubs Again]] This is going to destroy this organization.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5207	Despite the previous speeches, I will allow myself to point to some of the policies that emerge from the Annual Report to NIM. Again, NIM has highlighted the issue of isolation practices in Norwegian prisons. This issue is, of course, well known to the Storting and, in particular, aroused considerable attention in prison isolation when the Civil Ombudsman presented his special report on the problem. There is no doubt about this challenge. Because even though the NIM's intention to standard-fix lock-out time was to be adopted, we did not have it fixed the problem. One of the most important things we can do for our society, for our social security, is to make sure that people are less criminal when they get out of prison than they were when they were put in. This requires time and dedication. Over many years, Solberg and the government have cut off the budgets for criminal justice. In practice, this has led to fewer people at work, for example. by not filling the watch. So there'll be more lock-in. There will be less meaningful activities. When we also know that the intruder population has bigger challenges than before, it's a strange strategy to add that there are fewer people to deal with them. Therefore, the Workers' Party will not now set a standard of lock-out time, because if we do so today, with the current criminal justice framework, we will risk a standardised lock-out time that employees will use all the resources to comply with an eight-hour rule. Such a rule will require large manning resources to oversee the community in the departments. This in turn means that there will not be enough staff at work to carry out the important rehabilitating and activating work for each individual prisoner, which is essential for delivering on the very social mission of criminal services. In fact, it is well possible that a proposal for standardised lockout time will lead to more bureaucracy, more form fields and more target management. That way the Workers' Party does not want to go. We probably want people at work with time, space and confidence to do the job they're assigned to. The Labour Party therefore believes that there is a need for an economic escalation plan for criminal services, so that we can do good for the lost years under Erna Solberg. We need to reintroduce the programme activities and the rehabilitating work. Then the problem of isolation will gradually improve.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5220	I just want everyone to comment first on Per-Willy Amundsen's claim that human rights are somewhat left-wing. He has little confidence in human rights, he thinks it's a mess. He obviously also has little confidence in NIM. During the last consideration of the Committee in this matter, he withdrew all the points made by the rapporteur. It's quite unusual to do in Stortinget. He's almost also taking a distance from the treatment we have around it. I want to draw the attention of the representative Amundsen to the fact that human rights actually make him a great representative and say what he wants, and express what he wants. It is the human rights that create the framework for this – also that he was able to defend the Human Rights Service last week at Stortinget's pulpit. It's precisely the human rights that make this possible. So he has such a contemptible view of human rights and calls it a left turn, I think is a little funny. The representative Michael Tetzschner was about important things, I think. I'm very much in agreement with some of his considerations, I'm just going to try to view this in a slightly different way. We have recently seen that there has been a significant shift of power from the Storing to the Government. In terms of the measures taken to prevent infection, the Storting has shifted a lot of power from magnification to government. The size has weakened itself as an inspector. The government has managed to bring the Stortinget to tighten the transparency, both at the Civil Service Ombudsman and at the National Audit Office. In other words, the control task of Stortinget has been shifted. This also applies to human rights, for the last few years, when we have dealt with this, the majority of population have refused to deal with the recommendations of NIM. The majority of the population have only commented on this, and without taking an active position until then they have forwarded it to the government. Then it is important to remember that it is clear in the Constitution that the Stortinget has a separate responsibility for human rights in Norway – a separate responsibility. This is not a case of pro-rogation, one can simply take responsibility for the government. The award shall be subject to the examination of the cases. It refuses Stortinget to do for some reason that I do not fully understand. It is possible that I lack experience, but I do not see why Stortinget does not dare to go into those matters. It may be that there are now potential governmental parties who do not wish to have a bag of new requests to deal with in this area when they enter the government. But the principle here is that even in the area of human rights, the Stortinget has abdicated by moving the recommendations of our own Human Rights Control Agency, and not taking a stand on it, but just leaving it to the government. I feel that it is not in line with the formal responsibility of Stortingen, as defined in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5231	The President will draw attention to the fact that no reference is made to it from the committee meetings and on the way. Everyone goes in and out of notes, so we don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5236	I think it was an interesting post, as it is often from the representative Petter Eide. What he should consider in the defense he had for NIM is still this that they think they manage something that is objective and detectable. And when he asks why the Storting will not immediately base what is recommended by the NIM, the answer is that none of the quality assurance mechanisms that otherwise apply through the constitution and rules of procedure will apply to such a body. We saw this very clearly in the climate action case, where the legal situation had been invoked, that there could not have been or could not have been seen the protocol from the Constitutional Court in 2014. Nevertheless, it was noted that the legal situation in Norway had now changed so that the Supreme Court had to put an end to the oil industry. It didn't mean the Supreme Court, in plenary, and it says that you're far from controlling the kiss you're going to give advice to others. So the question is, who is responsible for bad advice coming from an external body? Who shall comply with the obligation to provide information? Who shall comply with the investigation instructions? There's an administration that's professional. It is politically run, yes, well, but it obliges the state councils, which are directly dependent on the trust here in the Storting. This is a system I want to advertise, and I also want to say that these hybrid organs are asking to think that they're going to change something else, because they only have their own opinion. Honor them for that, but the question is whether they should do it on state-regulated terms. Because they cannot settle the court, they cannot provide quality facilities for neither legislative decisions nor other organizational decisions in the Stortinget, and they cannot settle legal disputes between private individuals when they arise, because they choose their own cases, as political parties. However, the courts have to be independent because the cases come to them as part of resolving a conflict and balancing the entire aspects of the judicial system – a right of background to relate. That's where these propelling bodies take complete error of the kiss, because they focus – perhaps in the best sense, but also because it's convenient – only the legal arguments that fit into their worldview, so that what finally comes to the Bighold has the low quality that we don't listen to them. We've also seen that in other things where they've expressed themselves. Now you could say it solves itself. They do not have the legitimacy to replace the government's proposal prerogative, which must meet completely basic quality criteria, otherwise the Storting would let it hear. And so it should continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5247	The representative Petter Eide allows himself to be a little polemic. Although, of course, he knows better, it's not like my post was a flame speech against human rights at large. The fundamental civil human rights that are absolutely fundamental to Western civilization, to Norway and to our constitution, I am the strongest defender of. But the problem is when everything becomes human rights and goes so far into politics, and like politics that belong to the left. Then we're about to destroy the very fundamental human rights, which I feel the representative Tetzschner is also in, because then we're undermining democracy. When everything becomes juss and the sphere of politics is getting smaller, our ability to exercise democracy is less. It's a consequence of everything becoming juss, everything being defined as human rights. I'm sorry to say that, President, but I think I can feel safe to say that, for example. Freedom of expression, which is one of the fundamentals, is far more important than the duty of consultation for the Samet, which I believe is not even a human right. But that's where we are, that's where we're on wild roads, and it undermines democracy. It undermines the policy and free opportunities for democracy to play its role. I'm recording that there are more people who are critical, and I think that's good. I think it is important that we have a more fundamental discussion about what human rights should be, and where the border should be drawn between fundamental human rights, civil human rights and what is far beyond the sphere of politics. The climate is obviously the last. It's politics. The requirement for consultation is policy. We're going to deal with it on Thursday in this room. It's politics, it's not human rights, but NIM is among those who try to give the impression that things that belong far out on the left are things that are defining as human rights. I'm against it. I disagree. I ask myself, do we really need NIM? Is NIM an organisation that contributes something positive that Storting needs? I believe the answer to that question is no. If that's what we have enough of, it's organisations that run so-called human rights. I believe that the limit has been reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5259	Human rights on the one hand and politics on the other – that is a special description. Human rights are fought by people and politicians, and I think it's important that we have NIM, an institution created by the Storting. When you hear the article from Tetzschner or from Per-Willy Amundsen, you can get the impression that it is not like that. But there is therefore an institution created by the Stortinget with a mandate in line with international guidelines, where we have an independent position. We have just discussed the evaluation of NIM and the mandate, where we did not experience the polarisation that is taking place here today. We were then some about, at least the very most of us, that they fulfilled the mandate they were given. So we can have different political views. It's totally okay to have. Nor is it unusual – although Tetzschner may not have been involved in the debates in the Justice Committee when we have discussed the annual report earlier – that we look at political challenges in the light of human rights violations, where there are challenges related to human rights. What I mean is a completely natural thing to do, for example. The problem of isolation in Norwegian prisons, which has been known for several years. Otherwise, I agree with the President in pointing out that the Committee's internal work is internal to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5265	Finally, I also agree that the Storting should not deal with the NIM recommendations. There is only SV that suggests that one should do so. But I didn't think we should pretend that the references and recommendations in the report don't matter. They mean something, at least for the Workers' Party, and I mean them in an important way, helping to put a human rights perspective on several of the challenges we have in the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5268	Perhaps unlike the representatives of Tetzschner and Per-Willy Amundsen, I am a warm defender of the fact that the Stortinget is setting up an institution to take care of the human rights situation in Norway. It's an international system, this, with some international principles, and if we had followed Amundsen and put down NIM, we would send out a very special signal in the world that this was not important for Norway. I don't think that's a good thing. I don't think Per-Willy Amundsen has quite understood what NIM is. He calls it an organization that operates and makes lots of opinions. So it's the Big Thing that brings down NIM, and it's the Big Thing that deals with the NIM report and also evaluates NIM. Tetzschner notes that we cannot really deal with the issues of NIM because the quality assurance mechanisms that we otherwise have for Stortinget's treatment do not apply to what comes from NIM. He also says that there is such a low quality on what NIM says that the Storting cannot handle it on that basis. That is why he does not want us to deal with it in real terms. But what he does about that kind of passivity is that he moves power over human rights from the Storing to the Government. Per-Willy Amundsen is also involved. So he shifts power from Stortinget to the lawyers in the Ministry of Justice – then it becomes even more jussy, instead of the Stortinget actually taking responsibility. I would also like to say to Tetzschner that if he is so concerned that the quality of the proposals and the considerations surrounding them are so weak, he has full opportunity to order – I kept saying – better quality of the concrete proposals. He can also design the proposals so that the government asks to come back to the Storing, so that these conditions become more precise. Depriving myself of the responsibility to deal with these matters in the Chamber – as Tetzschner does with the reason that the quality is so low – seems to me to be a mere discharge. It's moving power away from the Storing and to the Government. I think that is definitely a violation of the Constitution's intention of what is the purpose of human rights in Norway and how they should be properly managed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5279	The representative Michael Tetzschner has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5285	I am amazed at Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde in SV, who are using their entire awake life to attack private offers when they are involved in building the welfare state, but when it comes to expressing themselves on what is current law, and what is to be adjusted to the Storting, it is therefore to be privatized into an organ that is precisely the Storting's own, but not more than that it is to be completely without the influence of the Storting. It's for me not to strengthen the Storting as an institution. Because, as far as the government is concerned, it's, after all, depending on the trust here in the hall, and it's also going to be a memory room if a government council should have forgotten an important piece of information in what you put into the information. No such rules apply, of course, to this NGO that we have now equipped on state regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5290	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5307	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity will be given for a replacement of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5314	As was said here, this matter concerns two proposals for representatives: document 8:275 S and document 8:277 S. The first is to liquidate all the tolls, and 60 concrete proposals are made on it. The second is to amend Section 27 of the Road Act, to prohibit the use of tolls for investments in bicycle paths, collective and urban development, or in practice urban packages and urban growth agreements. To wind up the toll on these 60 projects – if we look at the toll due there by 31 December 2020, we have been informed by the Council of State that it amounts to 63 billion. NOK, and if we look at the total toll obligations, they're up to 250 billion. kr – is clearly large sums. We have been using tolls for quite many years in Norway now, just to support and increase the space for action to build a road, and also to establish urban packages and urban growth agreements to develop urban areas. It is proposed to use the Infrastructure Fund to cancel the toll due. It's probably not as simple as it might sound like, all the time you have to make sure to grant the necessary funds over the state budget, and so on, take the space of action that lies there if you want to take such a grip. It's going to be a total balance of what a person wants to use that space for. From our perspective, we would like to see that we could manage without tolls, but at the same time it has contributed significantly to the development of the infrastructure we have today at the pace that has been done, the development of a lot of good roads around the whole country, and the maintenance of a high level of ambition in the transport sector. This is well anchored in the existing National Transport Plan 2018 – 2029, which was adopted in 2017, and it is also part of the proposal submitted by the Council of State and the Government for 2022 – 2033, with a toll ratio of 29 and 28 p.m. respectively. With regard to the second document, Document 8:277 S, amending the Road Code, there is a system in place where you can use tolls for collective, bicycle and walking purposes. It means that we have a basis, not least for developing our urban areas, urban growth agreements and urban packages. What we've seen is that the efforts on collectives, bicycles, and times also contribute to increased accessibility, to the development of urban areas, and to ensure greater accessibility for those who depend on cars. In these city packages, it is also good for the driver. In conclusion: for our part, we see that tolls are there and lying there as a prerequisite in the NTP, and unfortunately we have to blame ourselves for spending them in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5339	In this respect, the Progress Party has made proposals to delete all tolls accumulated and to prohibit the use of tolls for bicycles, public transport and urban development. After having both the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance for seven years, it would be thought that the Progress Party had a better understanding of the situation than these proposals seem. It would also be more appropriate if they had addressed this either in the treatment of the national transport plan, which we are now working on, or in budgetary work. Thus, the infrastructure fund that they themselves established to provide predictable frameworks for the transport area is now to be used to pay down tolls. The Council of State is responding to the Committee's view that toll obligations are now close to 250 billion. kr. and does not include the costs of the actual liquidation of today’s toll collection. It also does not include projects mentioned in the Notice. St. 20 for 2020–2021, i.e. national transport plan. The Workers' Party believes that the Advance Party should clarify their priorities and that both citizens and transport modes deserve far more predictability and seriousness than this proposal. There is no doubt that the toll load is high, and that in many places it is perceived as both unfair and random which projects have a toll load. Some projects have 20 pst. toll financing, and others have 75 pst. Some people are heavily charged because they have to pass a toll station to get to the nearby store, without having driven significantly on the new road. Now it is important to distinguish between urban tolls, which are used to limit car traffic, and what is required to finance clean road construction. The working party believes that it is important to get a fair system where you pay after the number of kilometres travelled, and that it must be locally accepted for the project. We believe that urban growth agreements and bombings with better collective provision have improved the accessibility of those who have to drive cars in cities. We will probably come back to this in the debate when the national transport plan is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5348	It was fun to hear the previous talk, and the next one is probably going to talk exactly the same way that we have to, and this is not possible to do without tolls, and this is a good way, and it's local initiatives. It's at least a truth with great modifications. If you talk to the people who are going to pay, the clear feedback is something else. And then it's funny because someone says we have to have this to do it. And then I see that the working party in the setting is very concerned that the tolls are higher than they were when the red-green ones crashed. It's interesting to bring with you. Following the entry of the Progress Party into the Ministry of Transport, only national road investments – as we included in the National Transport Plan in 2017 – are higher than all the state funds that the Red-Green Government was able to commit in 2014. That means that there has been a lot more money for transportation under the Progress Party – and that is government money – than the red-green manage when they were in 2014. It doesn't really matter that much, because it's history. But it's okay to include when to be so broad and tough and tell that now it's increased so much. No, it's increased much less than it did under the red-green. Then I find that interesting, because no one has mentioned tolls in other debates. This is one of the places where the Ministry of Finance actually very much agrees with the Advance Party. They think that tolls are a bad way of financing road construction because it makes the roads that are being built actually less profitable. Often I'm not very happy in the Ministry of Finance, but right here I think what the Ministry of Finance thinks is good. And so it's like when someone says that we can't afford it, that's not possible, and we have to be careful within the limits we have: the oil fund has increased by 1 000 billion. kr in the last year – 1000 billion. kr. That's a lot more than everything that's in debt tolls. And so the Right says: it's not possible to do this, then we have to do it over the state budget – and take it over the state budget. No, you had a hole right in the street here, a railway hole, which became much more expensive than what you thought, and which made it impossible to get it into, where you were able to finance afterwards because the money was spent. It's kind of the same thing that you do here; the money is actually already spent on these toll projects, so it's completely possible. But I see today in the VG that the Center Party says that they are now busy, and now they are going to make sure that the fees go down. It's a guarantee. Tomorrow, the Central Party can vote on the proposals of the Progress Party, but today they can join the debate and say clearly that they should vote to remove the tolls – vote for each of the 61 proposals. We ask that all the proposals be voted on for each proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5359	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5364	Sometimes it seems that it is a bit tiring to be a magnification representative. The representatives of the Party for Progress are in an extra hurry during these days. The Progress Party on the Stortinget is now trying to take seven years of policies – implemented by the Government’s Advance Party – back into the caviar tube. This is, of course, an exercise that has previously been commented on in the debates of the Transport Committee, but we have never seen such a vigorous effort as the Progress Party is now making in the request of eight years of the government of the Right-wing Government. For the first seven years, the Progress Party was part of this government, and all the budgets have been adopted by the Progress Party as a government partner or by the Progress Party as a support wheel. So today we see the Advance Party in intense struggle against its own power of action in government. I guess a lot of people remember the #handle force of the Advance Party. What did they use the power of action in the majority government? I can refresh the memory of the story a little bit, now that the Progress Party is trying to camouflage it in caviar. It is transport ministers from the Progress Party who are behind the historic growth of toll collection. Transport ministers from the Progress Party are behind the historic increase in the number of toll stations. It is transport ministers from the Progress Party who are behind the historical growth in toll debt. All of this just happened at the time the Progress Party put in government, with both finance ministers and transport ministers. Does the Progress Party in Stortinget believe that they can now beat a line to support the government and make up a budget majority for eight years? It wasn't our fault, the representatives Hoksrud and Johnsen claim they're standing with caviar to their knees. Toll liabilities are higher than the infrastructure fund of 100 billion. kr, which is the yield to be used for road, rail and coastal purposes. But, of course, tolls have negative aspects, such as a charge that does not take account of people's income levels. But it is road law that makes it possible to use tolls for other purposes. Veglova was amended in 2017, with the Progress Party in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5375	That history description of the role of the Progress Party was, of course, as the representative Siv Mossleth expressed now, but I am not so concerned with the history. I want to say something about the use of tolls – the role they have. First of all, I might have to say – if we're going to confess our sins or non-sin in terms of the use of tolls: I'm weak for the argumentation of the Progress Party. Tolls hit a little bit socially crooked. There's no doubt about it. I've said it several times from the pulpit. SV, as a party of justice, we're struggling with it. All flat fees are difficult to swallow. They have to be compensated in some way. You can often think that in the case of a 50 kroner bomb charge, there are some people in this country who would have paid NOK 5000 to pass. It would have hit about the same. So it's going to be very skew with the same toll rate. If the Progress Party had done as SV and voted against most of these huge road projects, there would have been a lot less toll to pay. But they never took the consequences of it. They have voted in favour of one motorway after another. So this is the case with these major motorway projects that two Progress Party government councils have been behind. Then we have the other role that the tolls have, and that's of course in relation to the urban growth agreements, the urban environment agreements, the urban packages -- we've called them different things up through. It's obvious that tolls have a two-sided role. One role is, in fact, to provide income for better space in cities, including for Hoksrud's cars. There is better space for pedestrians and cyclists, and a viable environment is provided, greenhouse gas emissions are reduced, etc. The tolls also seem a little bit like a whip. This is widely known. Even blessed Terje Moe Gustavsen said it clearly in one of his last posts. He was the head of the road. He said it's just to throw blues in the eyes of people to think that we're going to get car traffic down and reach a zero growth target without tolls. He said it so clearly, explicitly, in one of his last articles. He knew what he was talking about, Terje Moe Gustavsen. My point is that the way we see it now and when we analyse the proposals for the Progress Party, and I have sometimes said it here from the Chair – almost like a sulphur sermon against the Progress Party: they turn their backs on so important existential issues related to environmental issues and greenhouse gas emissions, and of course also this about getting a pleasant, eldery city – minor problems for allergy sufferers, etc. They just turn their backs on it – completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5388	The progress party has been very much for New Roads. They have even claimed the fathership of New Roads. And in order for them to establish that company, they had to compromise with other parties in 2015, when it was established. One of the compromises was that a third would be paid with tolls. Still, it's about the same political landscape. It is all right for the Progress Party to talk about its primary policy, but to promote it in a representative proposal, a Document 8 proposal, I think it is a bit funny and strange – the way they want to conduct their policy. There's gotta be a deal about these things, there's no party in this big business that has a majority, and then there's a kind of funny way of running politics. When it comes to these urban agreements, the urban packages, the urban growth agreements, not least, I can talk to myself hot. It was clearly the local population, the local democracy who wanted a development in the traffic scene, perhaps New Roads too, and at the same time solving the collective problem, solving the cycling and walking problems. They wanted fewer cars in town. They wanted to regulate the traffic. And how do you regulate traffic? Yes, of course with tolls – with different rates at different times. This has seemed amazing. The Oslo Packages were what started this. I was myself in 2007 and launched the Environmental Package Trondheim. As early as 2009, following compromises with many parties in Trondheim, we had the Stortinget to approve the implementation of an environmental package based on toll systems and state resources, and of course also some municipal and municipal funds for both the operation of public transport and the upgrading of bicycle and pedestrian routes. So we get a lot for this money. I really hope that the Progress Party will still be able to agree to some compromises rather than to stand on the Stockholm Chair with primary policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5399	I think it has been a good debate. I only want to point out that in the road law § 27 it is open so that tolls can be used in addition to roads for infrastructure measures on cross-border transport. The discussed Arne Nävra and I in this room two weeks back in time. Then it is that in urban areas it is also open to the use of tolls for public transport operations within certain criteria. The use of tolls for public transport is based on policy assessments and decisions that urban tolls have purposes other than traditional road development. This is the result of a desired policy over several years from both local and central level. In 2017, road laws were changed again by the distinction between tolls in and outside the urban areas becoming more purer, and this happened with Ketil Solvik-Olsen as the Council of State. A more flexible urban tariff system with time and/or environmental differentiation of tariffs is now possible. This means that the purpose of toll collection in urban areas can also be traffic regulation and not just project financing. I think it's been made for the better, and I think that former Councillor Ketil Solvik-Olsen is in favour of it. The major urban areas face challenges of poor accessibility and delays in the road network and also challenges related to the collective system. Road traffic is also one of the major sources of air pollution and noise. An effective and co-ordinated urban land and transport policy is therefore an area of concern for the government. An important tool here is the toll-funded urban packages, which make an important financial contribution to actions and projects that are just building up under the zero growth target. Such measures and projects can, in my opinion, not only be road projects, but also measures in both public transport and bicycles. The challenges in cities are complex, and the actions that are being introduced must be seen in a coherent and holistic way. So finally, I'm going to say that some of the important principles we have for tolls are that we have it based on regional, local decisions. What I mean is an important pillar of our toll policy. It's important, and it's also taken care of under varying governments. That's what I'm saying. It's a toll rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5416	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5422	I want to take the infrastructure fund first. That's given us approx. 2 billion. kr annually for transportation – a total of 11 billion. NOK 6 years. On questions from the Workers' Party, the Council of State answers that the same 100 billion. kr would give us 53 billion. kr in the State pension fund abroad. Even with the rule of action, this would have given us 15 billion. NOK, i.e. significantly more money for transportation. Has the State Council considered a more appropriate location or any changes to the Infrastructure Fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5427	No, I haven't. We have an infrastructure fund of 200 billion. kr, which has been created quite recently, which gives us investment, but it actually gives us much of the same means of action as it is also beyond the budget and the petroleum fund, or the pension fund, as we call it today. I didn't think it was so interesting to go into that kind of adjustment. I think they're gathering the rewards for both the railways and the road sector is the most interesting thing. So I haven't considered going in and making changes relate to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5438	I thank you for your answer. We'll probably get back to you later, too, if that's appropriate. In the NTP, the government writes that they have agreed to evaluate the organisation of the toll sector after some time. The working party supports this, and believes it is necessary to get the most out of the money. An expert committee has provided a report showing that urban income is most likely to fall by up to 23 pst. in 2030 if one does not make any changes. We see that there is already a need to look at both financial risks and clear responsibilities. Will the government specifically evaluate the whole toll reform? And when and how will this happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5445	Yes, I think that's right and important, also because the system we have today is kind of the more we're happy with it, the more revenue actually goes down. The more we pick bicycles and bikes, the more revenue falls. That's why we have to look at that whole thing. We also know that there will be challenges associated with zero-emission vehicles. Fortunately, there's a very positive development there, where we now see that up to 60 pst. of the new car dealership are zero-release cars. But it creates some challenges related to our incomes. We have to see this in a whole context. But I thought the toll reform that was carried out in 2016 was very good. We've had fewer companies. And then I also think that we have to look at the income streams that it will give. I'm positive for tolls. I think it's part of giving us both better infrastructure and better collective action, but naturally we have to see the health, and that's what we want to evaluate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5454	I heard the council say that he thinks tolls are positive and completely fine. It's not a bomb. I've looked at all the matters the Council of State has put forward, so it's no surprise. But I want to challenge the Council of State, because one thing is the urban packages and the challenges of saying it's for collectives, times and bikes, but you can also see that a lot of that money actually goes to urban renewal. It's something quite different than what was initially the idea. It could be interesting to hear what the council thinks about it. Another thing we also experience, which is completely new, is that you are now opening this foot of county roads. One of the projects that we adopted here in the Chamber just a few weeks ago is in an area – if you look around – that is at least not a city area, to say it like that. There are not very many cars there, and that means it will be very expensive to drive collection and such. Does the Council of State see that there will now be a profusion of such applications from county councils? In my state of Telemark, a new application has already been made by the county councils to submit to the state. What does the Council of State think about risking a flood of new toll projects on the county roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5461	I'm also in favour of having toll funding on the county roads. I think that as long as people see them get back to pay tolls, I think they're willing to do it. In my home municipality, Bømlo, they have had a toll system for almost 8-10 years. The roads there are so good that my wife gets annoyed, because she feels that the roads at Bømlo are better than the European roads from which she comes. It has also provided a holistic traffic system of walking and cycling roads, which is a revolution from the time I grew up on Bømlo. Yes, the state has been in and out of control, but tolls have been absolutely necessary to make it happen. One can't expect the county to have done it without toll support. So I think we have to be willing to see that. It is clear that we are concerned that the measures we have – to respond to them with urban renewal – should go to infrastructure, bicycles and corridors.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5468	In Norway, we have oil money – we have a lot of oil money. Right now, I guess it's 11 269 billion. kr. It's increased by 400 billion. kr only to date this year. And we have tolls. But our neighbours in Sweden and Denmark do not have oil, nor do they have tolls. So I wonder where the logic is when both Sweden and Denmark are able to build motorways for both 120 km/h and 130 km/h without bombs and without oil, while Norway has both booms and oil, but cannot do the same as our neighbouring country. What are we doing wrong in Norway? What are we doing wrong? And what have our colleagues in our neighbouring country Sweden and Denmark understood, which we have not understood in Norway? I wonder.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5473	I think Norway over a little too long had a slightly too low level of infrastructure measures for the nation. That's why I think what's happened in the last 10-12 years, that we now have more than double roadways and more than triple it for the railway, is right. I also believe that tolls are part of providing us with more infrastructure, and that's good. What's my point is that I don't think we need to have too high a level, because we don't have to lose the legitimacy of tolls. That is why I have chosen to present a national transport plan which is approximately the same size as the previous national transport plan. There I take the toll part down a little bit and the state part up a little bit because I have our concerns that we should lose legitimacy. But it would have been totally wrong, I think, to remove all the tolls. Then it had become smaller road and smaller railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5478	There has been a historical growth in toll collection, historical growth in toll entries and historical growth in toll debt. Minister Hareide joined on 24 January 2020, so I assume that this Minister does not have the Toll Order in the Solberg Government. Mr. Georg Dale was Minister for Transport from 31 August 2018 to 21 January 2020, and Mr. Ketil Solvik-Olsen was Minister from 16 October 2013 to 31 August 2018. This representative believes that it is former Minister Solvik-Olsen who is Norwegian champion and far the world champion in toll collection. Can Minister Hareide confirm that this is true?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5485	Now the finance minister came into the hall, so maybe he'll be over-judged here. But I think it'll be like this -- not to disappoint the representative Siv Mossleth -- that it'll be pretty easy to sign the record. Because we have a growth because of the many projects we have. That means there was a growth from Ketil Solvik-Olsen to Jon Georg Dale, and it's probably also a growth from Jon Georg Dale to me. It was especially a growth in 2019, and it comes from urban growth agreements. But urban growth agreements are a success. They provide infrastructure, they provide collective action, and they make us reach the zero growth targets in our cities. But we have to make sure that we don't increase tolls so much that we lose legitimacy. That's what I think I'm going to take seriously, both that reaction on the North-Jären and that in the Bergen region. That's why we brought it with us when we've lowered something of the toll level in the new NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5493	The minister did not mention the city of Buskerud. It's actually also a place where it seemed like it was 'just enough'. There they have held that there should be no toll, after a toll riot. At the same time, there are highways through the Drammen. Rv. 291 Holmenbrua is of course an Achilles heel. We have landed at Holmen, which is essential. Heavy transport's going there. So my question is, as I understand it, it's about 900 million. NOK which is needed to fix the bridge, which is almost ready to fall. About half is thought of tolls. Can the Council of State imagine that the state is taking the whole cake for a highway through such a city, or will he always refer to tolls to finance such a road?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5500	Now we have presented a new national transport plan, and I believe the representative Arne Nävra can see what priorities we have done there. For this type of project we have chosen that it is natural with also toll financing. Where we think there's a population and a possibility to contribute, we've taken it into account. We are well aware that it has a challenge attached to the Dramatic Area and the resistance that is there. I want to say that I respect the kind of resistance that is there, because I think we'll see something of the increase we've had in the toll area. For example, we know that people from the west have paid for E18 year after year to the city without getting anything left. For 12 years, the people of Drammen – and I look directly at Martin Kolberg – Bærum and Asker have paid without getting anything back. Fortunately, there has now been a change, now we have started the E18 development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5507	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5514	‘Bompenger’ is perhaps one of the most dilapidated words in Norwegian policy. ‘Landway robbery’ is also a word that has been used, at least from us in the Progress Party. Most people out there, whether you like it or not, are negative to tolls, no doubt about it. It's expensive, many pay thousands of dollars a month. I was in Narvik earlier this winter, at Hålogalandsbrua there, and I was told that people paid up to NOK 5000 a month. There is a lot of crazy money and extra acid if you have to pay it to get to work, just to pay even more taxes and taxes to the state. There has been such an attitude in Norway: no bomb, no road. Then it's because of local commitment, that locals want it like this. But the system is built up so that if you don't accept tolls, you don't get any way. It's the dilemma. It's a tragic principle, really, that we have tolls on our roads. As I mentioned instead, neither Denmark nor Sweden have tolls, nor do they have one penny of oil income. We have 11 269 billion. kr on the fund. Our oil fund is enormous, and using some of the means to cashe in all the tolls had been a drop in the ocean. We hadn't even noticed it. When we put it into the corona context, how many billions we've spent in the last year, it's not that much. Or you could use an even better example: electrification of the North Sea, approx. 50 B.C.E. kr: Take the hole in the North Sea, Longship, you're up for 75 billion. kr. It is more than just the proposal to remove all the toll stations we have today in Norway. These are priorities, simple and straightforward. That's what this is about. It's about how to use the funds, and we in the Progress Party would give priority to removing tolls. It is possible, it is realistic, and we are proposing it today. Then we get that argument, a little bit from the Central Party and a little bit from the Labour Party: seven years with the Advance Party in government, seven years with the Minister of Transport from the Progress Party. Yes, we've brought up the toll case every year. We fought against tolls every year when we were in government, but we have been alone in the fight. Neither the Right, the Left or the Christian People's Party will support us in removing tolls. When you look at the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV, it's even worse. I would say that both the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party have been a little constructive and positive, because they have helped us to have an important reform. We have introduced 20 pst. We have removed the whole of 50 bombers, we have more efficient toll collection, we have removed many bombs on side roads, we have halved bombers on side roads, and we have halved tariffs on new roads. We've done a lot that would never happen, we hadn't negotiated it with the Right Party, the Left Party and the Christian Party. There is little doubt that it had never gone with the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5527	I'm sorry to extend the debate a little bit – it's so nice to be out. What I wanted to ask the representatives of the Progress Party is: Is it so that you will remove everything that is tolls, also on the ferry-free E39, for example.? We're talking about 190 billion. kr only for the fjord crossings. We're talking about maybe approx. 800 kroner toll return on average on Rogfast, and will it be 700 – 800 kroner return – return Hordfast? It's a total of 190 billion. kr, how much is tolls. I should have liked an answer to that, so that I was informed. Is all this money taken from oil or from the aid budget? I guess that's what we're talking about. The NRK traveled a bit interesting here a day, on Saturday. So now we're going to have one highway after another towards the big cities. It's okay that the Progress Party wants to state and adopt in the Storting a zero growth target, I understand that. At least then you should be aware that with the feeding of the cities, with the motorway towards the city, the growth of car traffic into the cities there – so that the representative Hoksrud does not arrive at all, whether it is in Bergen or in Oslo – will make quite a difference. In particular, I would like to ask the representatives of the Progress Party whether there is also a ferry-free E39, all the projects that the Progress Party is in favour of are to be taken from the State Treasury, from oil or aid resources. I'd like to hear a little about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5541	Little bear Nilsen has a sage in which the reference says, 'It's hard to forget'. I will go back two years in time: 19 June 2019. Then the Stortinget adopted three major road extensions: E18 Langangen–Dørdal, E6 Ulsberg–Melhus and E6 Moelv–Øyer. That evening, Stortinget decided to build the three road projects, where 22 billion were to be taken together. kr in tolls. I underline 22 billion. kr was adopted in one evening in Stortinget. Who was it that suggested the expansion of the Stortinget? Yeah, who was that? It's quick to forget. Well, it was the Minister of Transport of the Progress Party who suggested to Stortinget that 22 billion be required. kr only in the three projects. The truth is that tolls have never been demanded more than transport ministers from the Progress Party. Now I may understand that the record will be turned down after each of the current Minister of Transport, but so far it has never been demanded more in tolls. There have never been more toll stations in Norway than under a Minister for Transport and a Minister for Finance from the Progress Party. This is totally unprofessional. The party of progress has zero credibility. I also hope that the presidency will defeat this way in which the Progress Party wants to present this, with a brief vote – just games from the Advance Party. Then the Progress Party will probably say that the percentage of tolls went down. Yes, that's right, but people don't pay in proportion, people pay in dollars, and in dollars, toll collection went up under a finance minister and a transport minister from the Progress Party. So it's time to reveal the bluff from the Advancement Party. We know what the party does, when they've had power for seven years. Now let's hope it's going to be awfully long until it happens again -- if it ever happens. Because then we know the priorities of the Progress Party. And finally, what is also totally incomprehensible is that the Progress Party is totally opposed to using new technology – as we do in all other areas of society – so that we can charge tolls or user payments more effectively than what we do today, because that is an inefficient way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5550	I think I leave to my good colleague Bård Hoksrud to respond to Nävra's comment on ferries. The last ferry we had in the interior across to the wrong side of Mjösa was closed when we got Mjøsbrua, so there are not so many ferries to work with where I live at least – although of course there is a problem in the West. If you're going to be a little bit positive, you can try to think a little bit like the majority in this room, you pay tolls, and then you get a new nice highway and you can drive at 110, 120 and 130 km/h. How fast it gets, you'll see. But then you get something back. But the worst is tolls that are to be used to prevent the drivers from driving their cars. Tolls in urban environment packages are extremely extreme. That's the worst of the worst. One would not think it was possible to force the drivers to pay for measures that simply make it difficult to drive a car, making it impossible to drive a car, which removes traffic, blocks streets and removes parking spaces – and it is for the drivers to be involved in paying for it. It is completely inconsistent and illogical that the drivers should finance a goal of removing the cars. Of course, that's not going to work together, so there's going to be a problem that will eventually reach the left side, and unfortunately also the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, succeed in removing the cars from the cities. Then there is a financial problem. Then, unfortunately, the coercive measures make it impossible to have a car in the cities. It's amazing that it's possible to have such a policy, but unfortunately it's obviously working with the majority that's in this room. It's incredibly disappointing. And it's absolutely amazing to listen to the representative Mossleth from the Center Party. It's almost so I should think she's happy with tolls. It sounds like she's mad that the Progress Party has not managed to remove tolls – so pleased and so happy as she is that there are many toll missions around. And she boasts that we haven't managed to remove them. So nice, so great with so much tolls. I actually get a little in doubt and wonder if the Center Party really loves tolls, as MDG says. Both parties have a green logo, and clubs and so on may look a little MDG-like. But as I know the Center Party in the village, they don't agree there. They're not there. They're not happy with tolls at all. I don't know any local politicians in the Central Party who love tolls, as I hear from the posts here. So to something that might be even worse than urban environment packages and road pricing, it's about as bad, but you don't replace something that's unfair and bad with something that's even worse. Today, some residents pay tolls. Those who drive a car on a particular road that is newly built, or those who are so unhappy to have to drive a car in town, have to pay tolls. But if road pricing is carried out, everyone is forced to pay tolls on absolutely all roads, for all cars – even those with old veteran cars. If you want to air them on May 17 or a nice Sunday with sunshine, you have to pay tolls. It's going to be completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5561	It's a very predictable debate, and I feel like we've had it before – a lot of times. After a few years in the Transport Committee, this has become a repetition. Now we have a clean toll debate, but otherwise it appears mostly every time we have a toll proposition for treatment in Stortinget. I guess none of us are particularly happy in tolls, or who love tolls, as the representative Johnsen expressed it as. Not even the Center Party, I don't think I love tolls, Johnsen. This is a more pragmatic approach, at least from my point of view, to the use of tolls – simply because I see that with the level of ambition that we are making for the development of our urban areas, we use tolls and user funding as an instrument to achieve it. I believe that those parties that are given the opportunity to sit and rule the country, and are given the opportunity to sit in government – including the Progress Party when they are in the responsible position – see that it is important precisely to maintain the level of ambition, to ensure that we have enough done and to implement the plans we have. We also take this into account when dealing with the national transport plan. We based it on the national transport plan provided by the red-green government for 2014-2023, we did so in the national transport plan 2018-2029, and we now put it into the national transport plan 2022-2033. And we actually see that the percentage of tolls goes down. That was 29 pst. in the previous NTP, and it is about 28 pst. in this NTP. The reason why the proportion falls is not because we've reduced the level of ambition or implemented fewer projects. On the contrary, the state share of projects is increasing relatively. This means that a doubling of the transport budget also means that the relative share of tolls can be slightly lower. When you listen to the argument, there's a lot of support for this in Stortinget. When the representative Mossleth claims that the Progress Party is a supporting party, the same can be said of the Centre Party and the Labour Party in such projects. Most of the lots in this room are in favour of the toll propositions, so trying to represent it as something else is said to be just customs. That's why I think we should also have a little pragmatic and honest approach to why we're using tolls. We use it because we want to have a high level of ambition. We want to get good road projects done. We want to implement good urban development projects. The fact that SV may not have voted for all the propositions is not that they are against tolls. It's just that in case they're against the road project. That is to the point of being honest, but at least you have to stand for what you mean. No, I think we are about to have a pragmatic approach to the use of user finance also in the transport sector. Then we get to do more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5576	Dear President, dear colleagues who are here now, and dear big ones. It is not useful to discuss this with the Progress Party. It has to do with the fact that over the years we know that they do not respect facts, do not respect investigations, and they do not respect previous political actions. It is then difficult to hold a political debate in a parliament. I only have time for two examples. The representative Johnsen talks a lot here about oil funds and that we could use the oil fund and just get rid of everything. He says it, he's right here and he says it. The historical fact is that we wouldn't have any oil fund had the Progress Party decided. The advance party was against the oil fund. The Progress Party believed that the Norwegian big business should decide that we should sell all known and future resources in the oil sector to foreign interests. And when the oil fund was set up, I remember very clearly how the then leader of the Progress Party thought that we were going to use the money on an ongoing basis to lower taxes. This is just an example of the fact that there is no political, but neither intellectual logic in the argumentation of the Progress Party – that is, both. Having political positions is now, but there must be some intellectual context in what is being said. The second is a closer example, which one just tries as if to get away: Holmenbrua in the Drama. And what did they say about that? They said, "No, it was to be built without tolls." But what was suggested when they had the minister? The same thing as the current minister is standing here and saying the correct thing. But it's just as if it hasn't happened either. I have to say that I am amazed that it is possible to hold on like this year after year, and that in some way we are a little respected by others – because we are being pushed into the kind of political debate that is really fixed on something that is not real. And that they get to operate; we have to find out, because that's democracy. I get it. But there's only one way, and that's what we're doing, that's just to get them out. And I'm glad we can do that. And I've said in a different context and I'm saying it again: don't let us be affected by that kind of populism in the future in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5585	The representative of Kolberg's posts, I think I'm not going to comment, because then I might not have been as gentle as I used to be. But it's interesting to listen to the debate that's here, because there's a lot of people who need to say that the Progress Party doesn't mean this, or that we're not where we are. But the wonderful thing is that the critics are the ones who vote to press the button and press yes every time. The centre party has voted in favour of all the toll projects in this room. The Progress Party has not voted for everyone. We have actually voted – since 2010 – against over 40 of them. The centre party has voted against over 80 of them. I actually think it's more real, what Arne Nävra from SV says, because he's against these paths. I love the lovely highways with four fields. I think it's amazing when we build it. And I'll build a lot more of that. I also believe that with the oil fund, which has increased by over 400 billion. kr in a year – it is actually possible if it is political will. It is not the same discussion in this room when we discuss whether we should spend money electrifying the socket or other climate measures. Then you don't talk about what it costs, you just say, well, this is what we do, you do, and then you vote with the politicians who are now criticizing us for being against tolls. So it's the way with New Veier that if SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre had got what they wanted, the drivers would have got 30 billion. More to be paid with the portfolio that was created when New Roads was established, and the cost reductions that were in New Roads – because the same batches think that tolls are quite fine. SV is clear that they think it's okay. But it's the same parties that wouldn't have anything to organize. They wouldn't do anything in the eight years they ran the store and the Center Party had the Minister of Transport. We're there that we will, and we've made sure to grant more than almost everything the red-greens had in their last NTP, with state funds, 536 billion. kr on highways. It's more than the 2014 framework. Then it should be said that yes, it was twelve years, not ten years. We are real and honest about it, but it was therefore more money for the highway when the Progress Party was in government with the Minister for Transport. It shows that you were willing to bet on transportation and got with the other parties. But we didn't get them to say that we're going to make sure to remove the toll. But we traveled around, and for the first time there was a government that actually traveled around and torpedoed, and it was a wonderful feeling. We would do even more of that, but it wasn't the majority. But we've only made sure this year that the drivers don't have to pay 2 billion. kr – as the Working Party, the Centre Party and SV and the others had thought was quite right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5594	The representative Johnsen is wondering about my good mood and asking if it's because the Center Party is in line with the Greens' Environmental Party. No, I can cancel that. The centre party is not in line with the Greens/Greens/EFA. The Green Party and the Central Party are very far apart. But it's true that I'm a little ridiculous. And the reason is that I imagine the representatives Johnsen and Hoksrud pushing and working to get this caviar back into the tube. This proposal is a blow in the air. If it had been credible, it must have been put in a budgetary procedure or in the NTP procedure. I really wonder what the former Transport Ministers of the Progress Party are doing now, while the representatives Johnsen and Hoksrud are working on and working on to try to remove the tracks of the former Transport Ministers from the Progress Party. Today's debate has ended. But today's debate has also left a big question we need to find out, and Minister Hareide can prepare for me to ask a question about whether it is Minister Solvik-Olsen, Minister Dale or Minister Hareide who has the Toll Order in the Solberg government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5604	The representative Tor André Johnsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5609	I think it's a little too intellectually demanding to answer the representative, Kolberg, so I stick to the more terrestrial representative Nävra. SV and Nävra challenged us as to why we have not been with SV to vote against the motorways. The answer to that is very simple. When we don't join and support SV in not building motorways in the district and not building motorways into Oslo and other big cities, it's easy because we respect people most out there. We have respect for the need to bring down the accidents. We are committed to increasing the availability and building safe, secure motorways. And not least when it comes to business – I don't know if the representative Nävra is so very concerned about business; I don't think SV fully understand that values have to be created before they can be distributed – you can look at Rv. 4 and the business community, which is established from Raufoss and inward towards Oslo, actually stands for a value creation of a total of 70 billion. kr. And they're yelling at getting a better rv. 4th@item: inlistbox I think most of the parties, at least on the right side, have understood the importance of expanding the road network. It's a little bad that SV doesn't understand it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5616	It's kind of nice, really, to listen to a debate that kind of seems so polarizing, but at the same time it's the actor who's in the front seat, who's really created the whole basis for the debate. It is during the period of the Progress Party in the department that one has managed to obtain this huge toll debt. There is no doubt that several motorways have been built and that expensive motorways have been built. It's not just SV that's concerned about building sensible roads, it's us in the Center Party too. Of course, if you're going to invest in something, the cost means something. Of course, that means what you pay for the goods you buy. And when it is decided in advance that someone will pay this through fees, and then you will then come and deliver 61 suggestions that will try to camouflage everything you have done when you put in government, I have never experienced that before. I don't have as long a seagoing time as the representative Kolberg, I think I'm the «youngest» in Stortinget here, I've been here for three years. But I've been doing other things in life, and I've never experienced anyone so far from word to action, never ever. That one can now get ahead of the national transport plan and present a proposal like this – I have never been close to it. This is, in my opinion, pure bluff. If you're supposed to try as hard as you can to hide all the tracks, it's impossible. This time I don't think the voters will go on that bluff either. I would like to end by saying that I have great respect for many in the Progress Party who are burning to build a road, which is burning in itself for the projects they want to carry out. I've never experienced a guy who's so engaged in the things he's working for, like the representative Tor André Johnsen, he really should. But today I almost feel sorry for Johnsen, for now he sticks his head in the wall everywhere, also internally, and he becomes piercing alone. Try to make compromises, Johnsen, and we'll support it, we'll usually make it. But this very proposal is completely hopeless.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5625	Facts and seriousness do not seem to be a part of the Progress Party. In this proposal, they therefore propose to remove all tolls. The toll is $250. kr. They shall use the infrastructure fund of 100 billion. kr. It's not gonna work. Now a lot has been said about New Roads. Their prerequisite for building a road is that it's a toll percentage. It's not New Roads that build a road. If you take a socio-economic account and look at the proportion of foreign entrepreneurs who have won tenders at New Roads, I think the calculation will be quite surprising. New ways have not been served by the discussion and debate and by the Progress Party on their behalf. There are also challenges for them, as it does for the State Road Administration. The state road system has many examples of good road projects that have been so-called savings. We've been to the Infrastructure Fund before. If it had been in the oil fund, we would have had a profit of 53 billion. kr, while we now have 11 billion. kr. So to this with urban growth, collective and multiplication. In the 1990s, I could spend two hours from my job at Trondheim Center and to Heimdal. Today it takes seven minutes. It's an example of the absolute benefit of getting better access for those who have to take a car, by prioritizing collective, bicycle and times, especially in areas where we have large population growth. In the case of road pricing, it is not correct that it should be used everywhere. That's what we're asking for – that's what we're asking for – is that it's geographically directed; you pay when you're driving a new road, not on the old road. You pay by number of kilometres and not by number of toll stations passed. That's $4 million. operate each toll station, and it is worth seeing if we can get more money.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5636	I'm going to try not to pull this debate out any more, because as I said before, there's a relatively predictable debate. But what made me take the floor one more time was the post of the representative Fasteraune from the Central Party. I think that we can all take on board the decisions we've been making in this room. Not many here have voted against the toll proposals when they were put forward. When the Central Party stands on this pulpit and attacks the Progress Party and complains that there is a long way between word and action, they have to do so, but then there is also a long way between words and action for the Central Party. They have voted for every toll project I've been on in this room for the last seven to eight years. Then it is not possible to stand here in the hall and complain to everyone else that the toll debt is high. Then one has to take responsibility for what one has been on in Stortinget in dealing with these toll proposals. We all have to do that. I think most of us think that tolls are not necessarily a good thing, but we have a pragmatic approach that suggests that we are using tolls and user funding simply because we want to have a high level of ambition, want to get very many projects carried out and want to develop our urban areas in a good way. Tolls and user financing have given us the opportunity to have a higher rate of expansion and investment rate than we could otherwise have had. I responded that so many complaints against everyone else regarding the level of tolls. With regard to the level of tolls, we also have to remember that we have doubled the transport budget in these years. That means we're investing more in transportation than ever before, and the toll ratio actually goes down, not up. This means, of course, that the total toll collection is increasing, but the share of tolls of total transport investment is actually falling. We must have some honesty in this debate. I have to admit that in many of these debates, I am getting a little tired that we are pointing at each other when we all have a joint responsibility that we are where we are, and that we are actually using tolls as a means of transport policy. I think everyone should take that into account, including in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5649	Bård Hoksrud is probably tired of being reminded of previous statements, but I have to remind you once again of what Bård Hoksrud said to Nettavisen on 4 June 2013, under a great headline: “I can guarantee that it will be toll-free throughout the country.” Yes, nothing less if the Progress Party would take over the management. That's what the Progress Party did. The party of progress came into government. The Progress Party was given to the Minister of Finance. The Progress Party was given to the Minister for Transport. And not enough with that: Bård Hoksrud became State Secretary in the Ministry of Transport. And then we see the result: there's never been any more tolls, there's never been any more toll stations. The difference is, and I have to say that to the chairman of the committee the place – I am a little surprised that he needs to defend the Progress Party so strongly: we others have been in that debate. We have not promised to remove tolls. I have probably voted in favour of all the toll projects mentioned here earlier. And we're in, that's what's the difference. There has to be a certain connection between words and action in politics. There is a significant difference, and that is that we are in the debates we defend what we are in. It's not like one day we can say one thing and then go into the Storting and vote for something else, and then someone else should just blow it and say that it wasn't so bad anyway, the others are also a little stupid. No, it's not like that. And I expect that the Right, Left and Christian People's Party will also include a settlement: the double communication and the total lack of seriousness of the Progress Party in this area, and that a settlement will also be made with the totally irresponsible and unaccountable national transport plan that the Progress Party has now presented. 400 B.C.E. more in transport investment and to promise toll-free – everyone understands that it is completely impossible to implement. One gets to say that we're not going to have tolls, but then there's also less road development. It's not like we love tolls, but we use it as an instrument because we see that there's a great need to do something about infrastructure, build more roads and do something about the traffic challenges in our metropolitan areas. Then we use tolls because it's an effective tool. We get to build more roads, and we get to build more infrastructure. We're in it, and there has to be harmony between words and action.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5660	I just have to be allowed to comment on what the committee leader said. What he's really saying is that we have to make sure that we have voted for the propositions that go on tolls. Yes, of course we do, that's what politics is. We have to stand for what we're doing. That's not what I said. What I said is that those who have started the processes, those who have been responsible for the processes, those who have been in the department, those who have been in the Ministry of Justice, those who have pushed these documents into the Storting and who have worked to get them through, they are now choosing to do this just before the summer, when we are going to adopt the National Transport Plan. That's what I was reacting to. I guess no one is sitting and flagging and cheering when you're going to have and pay tolls, but I actually feel that in terms of this tool, as the place is now saying, you have to be a little pragmatic, and you have to understand what you're getting back. At the same time, it is very important for us in the Central Party that we have to look at what we spend the money for in the future, because the costs are also important. It is possible to scale down projects, and it is possible to look at projects in some other way. I totally agree that you're going to be ambitious, you're going to think about the future, but at the same time we're now experiencing a society with other ways of communicating than just transporting people from A to Å. I think we get a society that might require a different type of investment than that we just roll out meters by four-field highway to make people run to and from. We're going to take that discussion into the debate on NTP, I'm going to assume, and we're going to get a lot more of it in the future. We in the Center Party stand for what we are adopting. But I repeat: exactly what has happened today, I think it is very special from the party that has been in charge purely physically.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5669	The representative Arne Nävra has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5674	I'm recording what the Central Party representative just said. There are very nice signs and signals from the Center Party. That's the first time I hear it so clearly expressed, that you ask questions about scaling and the size of the roads. This will be very exciting to talk about in the future, also with a possible new government formation – very, very nice to hear. But I want to say that the chairman of the committee has the right to ask for honesty in many ways. I have requested that many times here in the debate. But what I might ask you the most is: you don't think about the environmental policy role of tolls – nothing! Is it just me that mentions it, is it worried about it and thinking about the role of the tolls? In cities they have a great positive role to play. In the districts, the opposite is true of the major urban-to-urban motorway projects. That's where we build, divide and expand. It's the opposite role.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5681	There was no attempt on my part to defend these proposals that the Progress Party has put forward in this Chamber today. I just think they're unrealistic. I think it's unrealistic to imagine. Given the national transport plan that lies there today, the national transport plan that we are going to adopt – at least deal with it here in Stortingen – if not for too long, it is unrealistic to consider, within the scope of the action we have in the economy ahead, that we should manage to maintain the same level of ambition in the transport effort without using user funding, tolls, in some form. So we have to do what we can to keep moderation in this, but at the same time provide for as fair a collection as possible. If the representative Myrli or others misunderstood me and thought it was a defense for the Advancement Party, that was not the point. The point is that I demand honesty from both sides in the debate. I demand honesty from both sides in the debate, that one actually stands for what one has been on, takes responsibility for what one did when one was in and crashed, while all those sitting in the hall here must be in and take responsibility for what one has actually contributed to through the votes made here in the hall, through the toll propositions that have been delivered, and the toll debt or the toll level that must be out there in the whole country. Because there's a fairly broad majority here in the Storting that's behind it. That was my point, and then I hope we almost managed to end the debate there. At least for my own part, I will round off – and then I think it might be appropriate for the representative Hoksrud to have the last word.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5688	The representative, Mr Hoksrud, has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5694	Thank you so much for that! After listening to the representative Sverre Myrli, I almost could not help myself. I stand for what I've done, and I can also admit it if I've gone a little far. I think there are a lot of people in this room who have trouble sometimes -- actually admit that you said something you shouldn't. I have sometimes had to complain that I said it was not going to be tolls, but then it is of course that when you are fighting elections, you are running election campaigns on the party's politics and the party's program. But to be called totally unprofessional and to propose a national transport plan of 400 billion. kr is unprofessional: it is about willingness to give priority. It's about what you actually want to prioritize a 12-year period. Then I know like everyone else that democracy is about being able to count, so that you get a majority either on one side or on the other, and in this room there is a large majority who are in favour. But the funny thing is that those who are the most concerned about criticizing others are the ones who haven't been passed on. But you saw me so delicious it's traveling around and removing toll stations -- in Alta, in Telemark -- traveling all over the country and removing toll stations. We were the first government that did, we even removed toll stations that the red ones introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5701	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox No more people have asked to pay tolls either.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5718	At the request of the Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5725	Then, finally, today's toll debate was over, and we're going to move up in the air, to small aircraft activity. I would like to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee on this matter. Although the setting is not unanimous, all parties support the intention behind the proposals. I'll get back to that a little bit. In 2016, Stortinget adopted a new long-term defence plan, where it was decided that the defense would terminate its operations at Kjeller Airport during 2023. The majority then pointed out the need for new and permanent solutions for small airline traffic in the East and asked the government to present to the Stortinget a plan on how the state can contribute to the preservation of the national cultural historical values of Kjeller. In June 2017, Stortinget decided that the government will present a permanent solution for small-scale air traffic in the Oslo area. In response letters from the Council of State to the Committee, it is stated that the government is actively pursuing the Stortinget decision and will submit proposals to the Stortinget on the future of small aircraft activity in the East before Kjeller is closed. The Council of State also informs the Committee that the Riksantikvaren and Lillestrøm Municipality have established close and constructive cooperation to bring the peace process together at Kjeller. The cultural historical values of Kjeller are very large, given that it was the largest airport in the country, because of the defence and war history, and because of the professional environment that is and has been an important part of Norwegian aviation history. This is important to take care of. I also understand that the Committee supports the local initiative to implement an aircraft protection centre at Kjeller. It is the responsibility of the State to contribute to the preservation and making available of this national cultural history. Museum conditions need to be clarified, and local conditions around conservation also need to be clarified. When we in the Right do not support the proposals in the matter, it is about principles. Here Stortinget has already made a decision in the matter. We don't have to make any new decisions. Governments have replied that the government is working on the follow-up to the decisions. That being said, there are many good and useful comments in the matter, which the government will naturally have to follow up in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5746	Kjeller is not just Norway's oldest airport. Kjeller is the oldest aerodrome in the world that is still in use. With the urban development that has taken place in Lillestrøm, the aerodrome is actually located in the middle of what is one of Norway's largest growing areas. It is clear that it is necessary to work with intelligence and commitment to both taking care of the history of Kjeller and to be able to develop the area further. This has been updated since it became clear that the defense is shutting down Kjeller's activity in 2023. First of all, a few words about the small aircraft activity: many of the so-called GA aeroplanes, which are currently located in Kjeller, were transferred from Fornebu when Fornebu was laid down as an aerodrome. When the Stortinget adopted the Gardermo extension in 1992, it was based on the need to find a solution for the small aircraft activity. It has not yet taken place. Therefore, I have to say that I think what the Minister for Transport writes to the Committee is positive – that it is now working concretely to find solutions. According to Lillestrøm municipality and local fires, the flight history of Kjeller must be preserved as a living cultural memory. Work is being done to establish a so-called aircraft protection centre, with facilities for the flight history environment and a flight strip for veteran aircraft. But I was somewhat surprised when I read in the letter from the Minister of Transport – to which he has probably obtained information from the Minister of Defence – that if such a centre is to be set up to take care of the history of Kjeller, either Lillestrøm municipality must buy the land at the rate, or the properties will be put out for sale on the open market. It seems that the state has no plans to commit to taking care of the flight history at Kjeller. It doesn't matter – and we need to be clear about that. It is also special that the Minister for Transport writes: ‘In the case of the conservation of protected historical aircraft, the Ministry of Culture shall state that, as a general rule, these are taken care of in museums in a non-flight condition.’;» I.e. it was supposed to be clear whether the railway museum was not going to drive trains or that Skibladner could not sail because it was going to be taken care of, but not being active. It really has to be a point that Kjeller's aircraft are being held in flightable condition. If the President allows, let me recommend the Committee's recommendation II. The Committee's recommendation I will not be addressed to voting. It shall be replaced by loose proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox I state that it is a proposal made by the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5766	Then the representative Sverre Myrli has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5771	For the time being, there is no toll station on the Kjeller airstrip, so I guess there will be no toll debate now, we'll have hope. I first want to thank the Center Party for lifting an important matter. I think most people in this room, the majority of them and the whole room, agree that this is important. I just have to stress what Sverre Myrli said. The whole point really, which is crucial, is that we are happy in historic vehicles – at least we in the Progress Party are very happy about it. We love cars, boats, airplanes and motorcycles. All of these have an engine. There's no point in taking care of a historic vehicle – whether it's planes, cars, boats or what it is – if you can't use them. That's the whole point. That's why I'm very happy that Sverre Myrli pointed it out. You have to keep a flight strip on Kjeller, so you can at least fly with the planes that are there on special markings or on anniversary days and stuff. The previous rickshaws were also very clear on protection through use. It was a concept I believe the previous rickshaws introduced, among other things. in connection with Atlungstad Brenneri. It's about booze – something other than airplanes – but the point was that the old museums had just stood to decorate. But in the case of alcohol production, one must have production. Today there is production at Atlungstad Brenneri. It's a museum, and it's in use and in operation. That's very wise. Otherwise Myrli took up our proposal. That's good. It's just a little clarification that of course it has to be possible to continue at Kjeller, pending that an alternative is in place. It's very important, because we can't get into a situation where you get a vacuum – that the government spends too much time finding an alternative, and then Kjeller is already gone. We have to avoid that. That's the point of the agreed proposal that Myrli made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5782	Yes, this is an important matter. It's an important thing in many areas, especially for those who want to take care of the cultural heritage, and Kjeller deserves to be taken care of and what has been done there for many, many years. At the same time, it also has a different dimension, and it is caring for all those who are engaged in small aircraft activity in the Oslo area, which also has an important standby function. We would like to point out that in 2016 the Stortinget adopted a new long-term plan for the defence, and it said that they would terminate their business at Kjeller during 2023. I would also like to quote: ‘When Fornebu was closed for flight in 1998, much of the small aircraft and airsports activity in the Oslo area was transferred to Kjeller. In the event of a shutdown of Kjeller as an aerodrome, alternatives to this activity will be required.’;» In addition, the Central Party had a proposal for a representative in 2017, when a Joint Committee was behind the following comment: ‘In this context, the Committee will ask the Government to present a case on a permanent solution for small-scale air traffic in the Oslo area.’ In August of that year, the government presented a strategy that includes: concluded that access to landing sites was under pressure, in particular in the central eastern region. It's really very important to notice. We know that there have been ongoing conversations with Rygge, and it is clear that when Rygge civil airport was shut down, it did not make this matter much easier. A smoke flight station still has operational responsibilities and focus and may have a type of administration, especially of tower services, which makes it difficult to maintain parts of the small air traffic. In addition, the Eggemo has also been launched. There it is well organized, and all opportunities are there, but it is privately owned, and that in principle means that the state must have a clarification with the private owner. I would say that the combination of what's going on at Kjeller and what's going on in this air traffic is very important. For everyone it seems that it is a clear task to find alternatives to Kjeller for the regular small air traffic. It's probably everybody agreeing on, including those who are concerned about this. Then you have those who are very busy with the traffic going, with regard to the planes that are going to have the opportunity to fly from Kjeller. Then it's very important that the veteran planes are allowed to get up in the air, and that you keep a part of the strip. Of course, we are behind the last proposal, which also says that we need solutions until this is clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5805	In this case, the size will take two majority decisions, and the government will of course follow them up: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case to the Stortinget with a plan for a permanent solution for the small aircraft activity in the Oslo area.’ ‘The government asks the Government to present a case to the Stortinget with a plan for how the State can contribute to the preservation of the national cultural historical values of Kjeller.’ Of course, I will focus most on the first proposal, but also come up with the second proposal. When you're dealing with just a small airport for the Oslo area, you're already doing a good job. In 2017, the current Minister for Transport, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, presented a small-aircraft strategy that established that small-aircraft operations are a desired activity and that access to landing sites is a premise for the activity. The subsequent determination of the permanent solution for small aerodromes in the Austland area recommends that a solution be sought to facilitate the use of available remaining capacity on already existing commercial or state infrastructure. The Ministry of Transport has therefore assessed the airports of Eggemoen and Rygge, possibly in combination with Jarlsberg and Rakkestad as possible solutions. After my answer was sent to Stortinget, we explained to the owner of Eggemoen Airport that it is no longer an alternative. The Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Defence are also on this background in the dialogue on how Rygge, possibly in combination with other small aerodromes in the Oslo area, can be included in the plan for the organisation of small aeroplane activity in the Oslo area. We have also asked Avinor to initiate talks with the Defence and Defence Agency to find solutions that give users better access than they do today, within the limits of the operational activity of Rygge. Avinor should also consider, inter alia: investment needs, operating costs and consequences for any other users of the Rygge option and an alternative that includes, in addition, the airports at Rakkestad and Jarlsberg. On schedule, Kjeller as a regular general airfield shall close at the end of 2023 and I intend to have a solution ready for a reasonable period of time before that. The matter will of course be brought before the Stortinget. When it comes to the cultural historical values of Kjeller, I have had dialogue with the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Ministry of Culture, which is responsible for the situation here. We also work in close dialogue with the municipalities to preserve the soundness that I experience that the Stortinget points out in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5829	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5834	In the letter to the Committee of 26 April, the Minister for Transport wrote: ‘The disposal of property will be made under the disposal instruction. The municipality must therefore rely on the fact that, if they are interested and there is no other government need for the property, they can take over property at Kjeller Airport at a price. If there are no municipal needs, property will be put out for sale.» The municipality should clearly help to keep the story around Kjeller, but if one is to succeed in setting up an aircraft protection centre, which it has been working with for a long time, the state must also contribute. If the answer from the Minister of Transport means that the municipality alone is to finance and pay dearly to the country for the areas without the State contributing at all, there will be no aircraft protection centre. The question is, isn't the state going to contribute to Kjeller's history at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5845	I think the cultural historical values of Kjeller are best preserved through a dialogue between the cultural environmental authorities and the municipality. In the light of the dialogue I have had, among other things. The Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Ministry of Culture, I see that this is exactly what will be taken care of in this matter. But here's a dialogue that's now going on, and I think we have to look at how we can find good solutions for this. It's natural that you're contributing, but now there's a dialogue, and I'm not going to go into that. There is also something on the side of the responsibility I have. I share the wishes and thoughts of Sverre Myrlis for this, for a good cooperation, and that, just when we leave Kjeller Airport, we are happy to establish and maintain this as the cultural history it really is.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5850	I think these are positive signals. The Kjeller area is a huge area, and this is about a small part, the area to take care of a smaller flight strip in order to have such an aircraft protection center. I think that is a positive signal from the Minister for Transport and ask him to take it further up with the Minister for Defence. In the letter to the Committee of 26 April, the Minister for Transport, as I mentioned in my main post, also writes: ‘In the case of the conservation of protected historical aircraft, the Ministry of Culture shall state that, as a general rule, these are taken care of in museums in a non-flight condition.’;» This was very surprising. I know that in the veteran aircraft environment, it has been very noticeable that the government has sent such a letter. There is something quite different about cars, trains and boats, as it is a point to keep up and drive. Does the government really think we shouldn't have planes in flightable condition?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5862	The representative Myrli and the department have been in dialogue about other running gear that we absolutely want to have in running order and which is also added to the museum this week. But there's a general rule that's being emphasized here. That means that here one could get solutions where just a aircraft that is in running order is also on Kjeller, so I think that's definitely a possibility. So I'm going to stick to the authorities that work with the museum and museum activity. That's the lead we've put in here, and I'm not going to go into the professional discussion. But that it would be possible with the wording from the government to have and be able to use aircraft that are in running order, I think I'm absolutely inside, also with the wording given by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5869	Now we are concerned with what former rickshaw Jørn Holme said, protection through use, and I hope that the minister sees the importance of the historic vehicle having to be used. It would have been a bit interesting to hear how the minister would then take the initiative to follow it up, so that the prominent position is not as the representative Myrli asks, that it should be there for decoration without use. Then I wonder how the minister intends to follow up on the majority's demands now that Kjeller must pass, pending that an alternative should be clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5876	We're working too hard on an option. That's what I stressed in my post, also because it's closest to the responsibility I have. We have a close dialogue with the Ministry of Defence, and the Ministry of Transport works mainly closely against Back because we consider it the best option now. My goal is to reach the deadline that has been set for Kjeller, and therefore we will bring a case on it to Stortinget. So I just want to point out, as I said in my reply to the representative Sverre Myrli, that it should be possible to have an aircraft at Kjeller that is absolutely active, and I also think that the formulation we've given is within it. Here it's pointed to as a general rule, and so it's the authority of the museum's activities that gave that formulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5883	I then feel that the minister will follow up that both trains, cars, motorcycles, airplanes and boats could be in a running condition. I think that's important, and that's good, so thank you for that. I'm recording that the minister is talking about that Smoking might be the most current option, because it's the concept of the Oslo area that is used in the papers here. Does the Minister then see the point of having it as close as possible to Oslo? Because there are very many of those who fly, who live in Oslo, and if they are to have the opportunity to practice their hobby in the evening, it must be at quite immediate travel distance from Oslo and not too far away. If so, will the Minister make sure that there will be no alternative that will be further away than Back, for Rygge is already far enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5890	Yes, we do have a dialogue with Rygge, but we like to do it in combination with other small airports in the Oslo area that can be included in the plan. It will meet the needs of the representative Johnsen. Then we could have both Rygge and possibly other small airports that are even closer to Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5895	In the process from which we delivered this proposal for a representative, because I was one of those who stood behind it, it has materialized that it is, well, Back that really begins to be what crystallizes itself. I know the area of Rygge very well, I know Kjeller, and I know the history well. I was born and raised in a family in Air Force. At the time you had full activity in small aircraft operations, there were three fighter aircraft quadrons on Rygge, and it would surprise me a lot if you couldn't find a solution for the small aircraft activity in the Oslo area. What everyone knows, which is what matters, is the costs and the administration of services on a military base. Then my question is, have you gone in and looked at and considered what is needed to have small aeroplanes versus what is required for military aircraft?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5902	For example, when it concerns the activity of Back, it is set up against the military activity that is there. It is natural that the Ministry of Defence looks closer to it. We'll look at that in the matter we're presenting to the Stortinget. So I thought that this initiative has been good, and we have been working on it. It's now obvious to the Storting that we're going to follow it up in line with what the multiple here points to. I heard the case spokesman say that among those who do not support the proposal, there is nevertheless a broad, common intention from a mass accumulation in this matter, and I will follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5907	Thanks for the answer. Then we're back to it with flying veteran planes and protection through use. The practical thing about Kjeller has been processes that have been going on for many, many years, that the representative Myrli probably knows better than I do, but I recommend the council to take a trip to Kjeller and see what is really required to get a veteran plane in the air. It's kind of not all the world. Is it the ambition of the Council of State when he is in dialogue that this is exactly what needs to be preserved? Because that's what's unique, that's what's different from many other places, where you can go into an exhibition room and watch. Here you can actually experience, hear the sound, know the smell of fuel and really feel that you're on a historic basis. Do you want to follow up on that particular piece, or isn't it so important?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5914	I'm not going to go in and outrage the museum professionals, but I share the vision and the thinking that what we can do at Kjeller is something authentic. We can show the authentic history through real experiences with planes that can actually fly as well. I feel that in the advice we have got into this, a used formulation that it's normal not to have it, but here a follow-up to what the representative Fasterøne's intention is, and that's what I'm going to take with me. After the debate on this matter, I will take with me just those instructions, so that we can secure it at Kjeller.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5920	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5927	It was the Permanentraune representative who made me take the floor, because I heard that the representative has an east fold dialect and has grown up in what we call "sharsbårr" and is busy with the districts, and then he didn't mention Rakkestad Airport. Then I thought that I had to, because today I've been to Rygge Military Airport with the Prime Minister and seen the development and potential that's there. I'm probably also one of those who haven't given up any way to get back a civil activity at the airport. The possibilities are many, with the infrastructure that is there and that is being built. Rygge Airport has also been in the department, not with this Council of States – although it is possible, without my knowledge – but with former government councils, to show the possible alternative that can be to Kjeller, because there is an important environment on Kjeller, also in the cultural historical values that lie in the aircraft to be taken care of for the future. Rakkestad Airport is too many an unknown jewel, but it lies close to Rudskogen Motorsenter, and for us who are happy in chrome, diesel, gasoline smell and nickel, and one by one, the activity at Rakkestad Airport is quite large. There are large companies that actually map the whole of Northern Europe for mapping. In addition, a well-run small aerodrome also has the potential for extensions with, in this context, relatively small funds. But already there are opportunities in combination with Rygge. I thought, since I also see my co-representative from Eastfold as the author of this proposal for a representative, that for the sake of shame, Rakkestad Airport must be mentioned in this debate. The centre party and the permanent are busy in the districts, but as you know, there is nothing left to think about this possible combination when we're going to solve the challenges of Kjeller's liquidation. It will also be another important thing given that one should choose a combination of Moss airport Rygge, or Rygge airport, as it is now called: it will also be a catalyst by a more activity in order to get into what was former civil activity, which the owners are still working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5940	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 17. At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. Eighteenth and nineteen will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5971	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, lines are not allowed, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the time allocated will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5978	I will speak as a case rapporteur for two matters that are being dealt with together. This is the report by the Swedish delegation to the Nordic Council on the activities of the year that went on, that is, 2020, and the news of Nordic cooperation, also in 2020. There is no doubt that Nordic cooperation is absolutely crucial for us. In the Nordic region, we find our closest partners, with shared history and strong cultural ties. However, 2020 was a very special year for all international cooperation, including the Nordic one. As indicated in the Storing Communication, an intensive effort has been undertaken throughout 2020 to deal with the ongoing pandemic. The number of meetings and contacts at the level of office and policy has been record high throughout the year. Nordic health authorities have also continuously shared information in the field of health and evaluation of the pandemic. Let me give you a few examples: from the Norwegian side, the government has assisted Sweden with infectious diseases and has also replaced Sweden in European fire preparedness when the Swedish health service has had a major impact on coronary patients. Sweden, for its part, undertook to pass on vaccines from the EU to Iceland and Norway. Another area in which the Nordic region has cooperated closely and effectively is by facilitating the return of Nordic citizens stranded abroad when the pandemic broke loose. Several thousand Nordic citizens were helped to get home by coordinating the offer of return flights. I would like to say a few words about the report from the Nordic Council's business. This work, too, has been strongly influenced by the pandemic. Despite travel restrictions, more meetings were held in the Nordic Council than ever before. Most of the meetings were conducted digitally. It is worth noting that the Bureau acted as a plenary session during the last year and dealt with matters that would normally be dealt with in the plenary session of the Nordic Council. One of the main concerns of the Bureau in 2020 was how the Nordic countries managed the pandemic and its consequences for Nordic cooperation, especially in border areas. The effects of the coronary apathy are also at the heart of the selection process in 2020. I am sure that I speak on behalf of all our Nordic colleagues when I say that we look forward to regular visits between our countries. A strong and united Nordic region is a good thing for each of our countries and for Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e5991	I have asked for the word twice, because I need to spend some time, both on the delegation and on the Council of Ministers. I start with the delegation, as a leader of it. This year's report from the Swedish Government's delegation to the Nordic Council is extensive and shows great activity in many areas. The delegation has selected five meetings during the reporting period, and there have been extensive digital meetings in all of the Nordic Council's various selections. I would like to say here that there has been good cooperation in the delegation. The delegation has worked well as a collective, and I thank the members of the delegation for their cooperation. The Bureau's work in 2020, as the representative Schou just said, has been very strongly influenced by the coronary apathy and the consequences of different handling in the Nordic co-operation countries. I will come back to that later in the debate. Furthermore, the dialogue on the 2021 budget between the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Bureau has largely focused on the Council’s influence on the process and the outcome. In particular, the Council of Ministers is opposed to implementing the Nordic Council's unanimous decision to establish a separate Council of Ministers for Transport-Based Frustration and Aggression. The Bureau, responsible for international cooperation in the Nordic Council, has also had extensive contacts with, among others, the Nordic Council in 2020. Baltic Assembly and participation in Baltic Sea Cooperation. Norway has chaired two of the trade unions. The Committee for a Sustainable Nordic Region, led by Ketil Kjenseth, has put a number of important issues on the agenda. Microplastics in the body, marine pollution research and joint efforts against food waste are examples of this. In the welfare committee, for which Bente Stein Mathisen is responsible, the work on mental health among young people, suicide prevention and antibiotic resistance has given good input to the political debate. The Committee on Growth and Development has contributed in important areas, such as building regulations and building standards and the establishment of a Ministry of Transport, while the selection of knowledge and culture, among others, has contributed. have focused on the impact on school closure students due to the corona epidemic and measures for better conditions for hearing impaired persons. Finally, I would like to stress that it is the delegation's strong opinion that Ruth Grung has done an excellent job as head of the Nordic Council's Control Committee during this period. I also refer to the very comprehensive report available on the occasion of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e6006	In the Nordic region, we have one of the most comprehensive regional cooperation in the world. The Nordic community is unique; we share fundamental values and interests and have confidence in each other. Decades of close cooperation have shown that we can do more together – not only to strengthen our own societies, but also by taking joint international responsibility. This cooperation is fully documented in the communication under discussion today. There is no doubt that 2020 and 2021 have been such a challenging year for the Nordic countries as well. National measures for the protection of human health affect the free movement of people in our countries and between our countries. As I have pointed out earlier, despite different decisions, we in the Nordic region have informed and helped each other. Strong cooperation traditions have added value. Despite the pandemic, the Nordic Council of Ministers has worked purposefully on the implementation of Vision 2030 to make the Nordic region the most sustainable and integrated region in the world. I am impressed that the Nordic wheels have been kept going so well in such a demanding time. At the same time, we need to discuss how we can strengthen cooperation in crisis situations and learn from the experience of the pandemic. We are doing this in the Nordic Council of Ministers. Vision 2030 and the implementation of the accompanying action plan are at the top of the Nordic agenda and will guide the Norwegian Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers in 2022. In addition, it will be important for the Norwegian Presidency to contribute to a well-managed organisation and good financial management in the Nordic Council of Ministers Secretariat. As I mentioned earlier, there are challenges in this area that are being cleared up. This year, the Nordic Council of Ministers is 50 years old. It deserves to be celebrated. Nordic cooperation is stronger than any pandemic; it appears in the communication being debated today. I look forward to continued good cooperation with the Stortinget, not least under the Presidency of the Council of Ministers next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e6017	I have had the pleasure of being a member of the Stortinget delegation to the Nordic Council in the current period, where I sit in the selection of the Sustainable Nordic Region and the Border Obstacles Group. I myself am a resident of the North Calotte and have always felt that the people of the North Calotte are almost one – not nationally, because we live in several countries, not linguistically, because the area has more languages, and not ethnically, because we are different peoples as well. We've been moving across the borders in the north for many years almost without thinking that there are boundaries between us. The Sami people live in all the Nordic countries and also in Russia. There is another important argument for as much friction-free association as possible and that the possibility of communication between the Nordic countries and Russia is also important. We have had a well-functioning housing and labour market, until the Korona epidemic came and made us aware that we too have limitations, even our borders can be closed between brothers. Many border dwellers and workers working on the other side of the border had problems when the border was closed and thus also the way to work. The Nordic countries experienced border barriers we had barely thought of before, because we've been able to operate as seamlessly as we've been doing for many, many years. What we should draw as a lesson from this epidemic is that closed borders immediately lead to the Nordics no longer being able to achieve the goal of being the world's best integrated region, if we don't do anything about it. The labour market does not work, the welfare society does not work when the teacher or nurse is excluded from their work due to a closed border. An integrated Nordic region requires open borders. One of the other meeting points I really appreciated was when, in the Nordic Council, we had a digital meeting with UN Secretary-General António Guterres on the Korona crisis. We know that the corona has hit the world differently, we know that the differences are increasing between prosperous countries and poor countries, and that the corona is further reinforcing the fact. The Nordic model does not just ensure that the economic well-being of the Nordic countries is good. It also provides us with good health care, it provides free vaccines for everyone, and it manages national crises. The Nordic Council is part of international policy, and not just limited to the Nordic region. We see it in cross-border projects, for example, the exciting plans for a train route from Rovaniemi in Finland via the Churches and over to Russia. If this had been realised, it would have provided the North Caloten with a new, innovative offer with the possibility of planning and increased contact with Russia. Unfortunately, this is not a reality now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e6032	Nordic cooperation is more important than ever. The pandemic has shown us how vulnerable we are, and as the rapporteur explained, there has been extensive cooperation across the Nordic countries during the time we have had this pandemic. There has probably also been a lot of things that we have to learn from, and that we can share some experiences about afterwards, so that we're more prepared next time we hit something similar, because we definitely do that again. I'm happy to be the leader of the Nordic Welfare Board, and I'm going to draw up a couple of themes that we've spent a lot of time on, and that have Nordic added value in terms of cooperation. Better cooperation in research and health is needed. There is a large potential in the Nordic health registers, which are unique in a global context. There is also good research infrastructure in the Nordic region, and our population is actually willing to participate in studies and take on new technologies. The North with its 27 million inhabitants about is a perfect population that makes us attractive for clinical studies, and here's actually great opportunities. Then it's the fight against antibiotic resistance. The committee has been working on this for several years and has attended and prepared a conference on the topic in cooperation with the European Parliament on 3 March earlier this year. The pandemic has also shown us here how important this work is, and how important it is to develop new antibiotic medicine. The Committee has developed a common Nordic interpellation, issues, to the Nordic Health Ministers, where they are challenged to create a common Nordic action plan on antibiotic resistance and closer cooperation on research, vaccine and pharmaceutical production. Interpellation has already been sent to the Nordic parliaments. Maybe we can together be better prepared next time a pandemic hits us in this area. The last topic I want to mention is mental health and suicide prevention. We haven't had physical meetings in the last year, but we've had good digital meetings, and we've had several of the ministers inside as initiators. When we discussed the proposal on suicide prevention, the committee met with the Finnish Minister of Family and Care Krista Kiuru and our own Minister of Health Bent Höie. The committee subsequently adopted a proposal for the Nordic Council to organise a Nordic summit on mental health and suicide in 2021. In addition, the sample decided to work for a Nordic action plan aimed at reducing suicides by 25 pst. by 2025, and the objective in sight is a zero vision. The committee agrees that suicide prevention is a common Nordic challenge that we need to work more closely around and take the most seriously. We live in the world's best country, but yet ten people kill themselves every day in the Nordic countries. It's six times more than those who die in traffic. It's an incredibly sad statistic that we have to do something with. I am pleased that the Nordic Council in plenary adopted the committee's proposal for a zero vision on suicide, and a summit on mental health in 2021, a topic that is more topical than ever with the pandemic as a backcloth.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e6049	Like the others, I want to raise what surrounds us in Nordic cooperation, and it is that globally we experience increased polarization both between countries and within countries. We see that the rule of law is under attack in several countries and that the pandemic has shown how vulnerable we are. In fact, Nordic cooperation is becoming even more important, both in order to address the green transition, where we can take a leading position, and digitisation – there are a few countries that have used it as actively as the Nordic countries have done. And we have a unique model of the welfare society that we need to develop further so that it meets the future, and not least ensure democracy and the principles of the rule of law. When such big changes happen in the world, Nordic cooperation actually becomes crucial, and it has been incredibly inspiring to work. For me personally, it's almost been a political workshop, because we have a lot in common, while we're different. This gives you ideas about how other countries have solved it, and why they have solved it, because it is just enough community and enough inequality. But as I also say, as head of the control committee, it has been a special year. The Council of Ministers has not been in control of financial management. It has been incredibly serious, and it is very special that it has not been discovered before. Nor have we been given an overview of the 700 projects that the Council of Ministers has, and the Nordic Council and the Nordic Cultural Fund have the same accounting and economic systems and are bound up by the same. We are totally dependent – these are the means of the community – on the fact that we have transparent systems that are verifiable in how we use the community's funds. Now we're expected to have control. There I just have to say that the Danish National Audit Office has been unique and has really prioritised this in order to get good cooperation and to get this on the rails, and I expect you to be able to deliver approved accounts before the summer anyway. I have also been responsible for energy policy, and as the Council of State was in it, it is perhaps one of the areas where we stand out most, in the unique, because there is no country that has been so early in entering into a cooperation like what we have done in the Nordic region. Renewable energy supply is crucial in the shift, so here we need to work together on both green hydrogen, ammonia, solar power and bioenergy, on which the other Nordic countries are better than we are. Then I also want to lift preparedness, the production of vaccines. I have sent written questions to the Council of State about this, because it is an area that we can really give priority to. I must also mention fisheries policy. It's one of the areas where there's been disagreement, and it's incredibly important that we can also find consensus there. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for taking on the role of Minister of Cooperation. It is very important for us to have such an important and committed minister of coordination.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e6064	The Korona crisis led to closed borders, but it has also shown that cross-border cooperation is more important than ever. Since March last year, I think most people in this Chamber have learned how important it is that democracy works well in a crisis. Those who thought the Storting would abdish were wrong. Parliamentary activity has gone high throughout the pandemic, and my experience as a parliamentarian in the Nordic Council is really similar. Decommissioning and frozen mobility have not stopped international cooperation. In fact, when it comes to writing history, the conversion to digital meetings has meant that we have been able to meet more often and in some areas have intensified cooperation. It's been far from optimal. Let me raise one dimension that may seem trivial, but as I think is absolutely fundamental: the friendship, the Brotherhood, the very basis of Nordic cooperation is not as well nourished by digital encounters. The sustained health crisis has enormous human consequences, and the Nordic countries have dealt with the crisis differently. Nobody knows the fasit. But I am sure we should recognise that every Nordic country has done what they can to ensure life, health and jobs within its national framework. The initiators of extended Nordic cooperation in the knowledge sector after the corona, called 'Mobilising the Nordics', may be right when they claim that Nordic values such as trust, openness, willingness to cooperate, faith in knowledge, trust in democratic solutions and strong professional environments have made the Nordic countries among the best to deal with the crisis and limit its adverse effects. The experience we have gained in the Nordic region should be taken into account by individual countries. We should learn from each other's handling, knowledge and best practices before the next crisis. The Social Democrats in the Nordic countries are committed to strengthening the Nordic model. The crisis should not create major differences or weaken cohesion in the Nordic region. We believe the crisis has been an acid test for social democratic solutions. It has demonstrated the importance of strong communities and a strong state of public welfare. The Social Democrats in the North are looking forward to the time after the Corona, where we can take even better advantage of the good neighbourhood and create a better and fairer Nordic region, together. We continue the job of the Nordic region as the most sustainable and integrated region in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e6079	I am going to talk more specifically about the Council of Ministers' annual report to Stortinget. It is a good message to show that there has been a broad consensus and work well in the Council of Ministers, as it emerges. However, I would like to point out that, on the part of the Nordic Council, it is disappointing that this year's notification does not particularly attract the recordings of the Nordic Council. Only in one case are the activities of the Nordic Council referred to as political substance, namely the Nordic Council's strategy for social security. All the other recommendations adopted by the Nordic Council in 2020, 17 in total, have been overlooked in the communication to the Stortinget. Neither have any of the 22 member proposals discussed by the Nordic Council in 2019 been mentioned. This I say in this way, because this shows the challenge in Nordic cooperation. There is a great deal of agreement on the need for Nordic cooperation, a great deal of agreement on the importance of the Sandberg representative just mentioned, namely the friendship. But it doesn't work politically as it should, in my opinion, and the pandemic has shown, quite clearly, the differences in how to deal with the challenges. I do not want to conceal that when I stand here for the last time as Head of the Delegation, there has been a very clear challenge, as we have experienced in the work of the Nordic Council, between the delegations and the understanding of how to resolve the crisis. The challenges we have had in relation to the relationship between Norway and Sweden have been very clear, and I can't say anything about it except that I wish it wasn't. I wish there was closer and more real political cooperation between the Nordic governments, in general and during the crisis in particular, because the pandemic has clearly shown us that the need for a different and more trusting cooperation is absolutely necessary and right. Therefore, my final words are that if Nordic cooperation is to maintain its political strength, the Council of Ministers must respect more strongly the Nordic Council's political decisions. The active, effective cooperation between governments in the Nordic region should be strengthened significantly to avoid the challenges created by the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e6092	I have to thank the Head of Delegation for the last meeting here, that's important. After several years as a member of the Nordic Council and the Committee on Culture and Education, I have gained much greater understanding, understanding and knowledge of the Nordic countries and the community we have through common history, culture, language and values. In 2017, a population survey was carried out in the Nordic region on the importance of Nordic cooperation. Over 90 pst. Nordic cooperation was considered important by the population. In the special situation we're in and face each of us under this pandemic, Nordic cooperation and cohesion are more important than ever. We work together across borders and in very many areas of society. We are working for ever closer cooperation between the Nordic countries to facilitate practical solutions for the citizens of the Nordic region. The goal is that people should be able to live, work and move freely across borders. Earlier today, we have dealt with the implementation reform. How will the school of the future ensure that children and young people experience mastering and rejoicing, so that they complete secondary education, and that students end up with study skills or as skilled workers? Is that what we in the Nordic region, as the world's most integrated region, should and must cooperate on in the future, this is exactly what it is: training more skilled workers to strengthen the competitiveness of business and the quality of welfare services and to strengthen the Nordic model of labour and welfare. The Social Democrats in the Knowledge and Culture Forum have just received a majority in favour of a joint Nordic conference, which will be held in school, professional, apprentice and skilled workers as a theme during the course of 2021. It will be an important meeting place. As a long-standing member of the selection of knowledge and culture, as I said, and now as chairman of the Nordic Cultural Fund, I want to underline the importance of an even closer Nordic cooperation on sport, outdoor life, volunteering and culture, which binds people and countries together and us as regions in closer cooperation, especially young people and new generations. When we experience that the Council of Ministers is cutting off important offers and institutions, such as: The Nordic cultural fund, and another example, is the winding-up of support for Nordic Panorama, which is an important platform for displaying, nurturing and expanding networks and not least financing Nordic films – that is wrong. At the end of the day, I would like to stress the democratic dilemma, on which Mr Kolberg was also involved, in Nordic cooperation, that what the Nordic Council as a Nordic Parliament decides is not followed up by the Nordic Council of Ministers as a government. This undermines Nordic cooperation and parliamentary cooperation across borders in the Nordic region. Here we have a common responsibility to ensure that what is decided here in Stortinget and in the Nordic Council is followed up by the governments responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e6112	It's been said a lot correctly, so you can wonder why I need to say something more. But I don't think we should split up and have discussed Nordic cooperation without paying attention to the opportunity we have to get Nordic cooperation even more committed. By that I believe that it is a disadvantage for Nordic cooperation too that we have chosen different alliance solutions. We have NORDEFCO, which fortunately has become a forum after it was once again allowed to talk about defence and foreign policy. It was the shadow from the first Soviet that lay above the Nordic Council. I'm glad we've come a long way. Then it's the EU. Those who now celebrate the Nordic unity and integration should be aware that if we weaken the EEA Agreement, we also weaken the automatic integration we get through the legal entity that we get either through directives or regulations. We're in the internal market, so we're also starting to operate in Europe with what we've been used to from the North from the beginning, that's boundless. But those who want to weaken the EEA will weaken Nordic cooperation. Those who want to weaken NATO will also weaken Nordic cohesion. It is not just a powerful common political heritage that has brought us closer to each other in the Nordic region. It's also the pressure of how to behave in the big world, and where others have helped us coordinate. But now I'm happy that all the prize results. So let's get closer to each other. I want to tell you that Antony Blinken, the new US Secretary of State, was asked why he came to Denmark as the only one of the Nordic countries. He said: I'm going to attend Arctic Council, it's an anniversary, I'll be able to talk to Denmark. I'll deal with NATO questions, I can talk to Denmark. And Denmark is also part of the EU. It's the only country that has triple insurance. That's what I think we're going to worry about. So I'd like to end by saying, now it's risk free to praise political competitors and partners, because I don't want to leave it unspoken from this pulpit, that it's a pleasure to cooperate with Martin Kolberg. He's fair. He's accurate. He burns for the Nordic. And he's left a good impression with our Nordic neighbours. It's supposed to be the Big Thing proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e6125	No more people have asked for the floor in case No. 18 and 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-01.ana.ud328e6140	There is no record available. This means that today's maps are ready. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
