ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e28	For the sake of infection prevention, the President proposes that the public gallery be closed during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative Bears Moxnes, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The representative of Erlend Wiborg shall apply for parental leave from 13 May to 21 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The sales representative, Björn Laabak, is invited to meet in Stortinget from 18 May to 18 June.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e66	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Bent Höie and Knut Arild Hareide will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative of Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e75	My question goes to the Minister of Health and is about the consequences of the pandemic on the most vulnerable vulnerable children and young people who need help and care, but also young adults with serious illnesses who need access to treatment — and good treatment — more than ever. The government appointed a sample to look at how the pandemic has affected mental health and drug use. The sample suggests well-known lowthreshold measures that Stortinget has already asked the government to expand. The report has also been criticised, and the sample leader Kjøs himself responds to the criticism of Today's Medicine: ‘We have adhered to the mandate, which was to assess the specific effects of the pandemic, without using it as a joke to instigate measures that should rather be justified in the general state and be built up over time.’ The committee writes correctly that there has been a steady increase in patients with eating disorders over several years, and that this is one of a few patient groups who have also increased during the pandemic. However, this problem is not further addressed, despite the fact that eating disorders are among the most serious and fatal mental health disorders. In 2020, 23 p.m. the referrals to mental health protection have been rejected. It's high numbers, and it shows that the consequences are serious. So my question to the Council of State is, does he recognize the basic challenges in the service, which are now facing more serious sick patients who have to wait a very long time for what they need to be treated for life?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e89	I understand that the representative is concerned with the mental health challenges we have, regardless of the pandemic, which was there before the pandemic. I fully agree with that. This is also the reason why the government started a great deal of work before the pandemic hit Norway, where we asked the Health Directorate and the Health Regions to find out what the future need for specialised mental health care in Norway, including the provision of both children and young people, both in daily treatment and outpatient treatment, etc., is precisely because we believe that there is a need to build up this offer in general and that there has been too little basis for assessing the actual needs in the years to come. This work is soon completed, and I look forward to following it up. This is also one of the reasons why the government put forward a stepping-up plan for children and young people’s mental health before the pandemic hit. We have also followed that plan of escalation, for example. in the budget for 2021. There is a commitment to the mental health of children and young people that had come — regardless of the pandemic. I think it is nice that the Kjøs Committee, which has gone through this and looked at it related to the pandemic, points out that there are many of the same measures that should be strengthened. This also means that with a look from the outside, the efforts of the government over the last few years in the field of mental health have been pointed to as the important initiatives ahead. That's what I share. Had it been that I thought that the offer in the area of mental health in Norway was good enough, of course we had not started all this work. Despite the fact that we have prioritised mental health from day one since 2013, there are so many challenges, and the challenges have unfortunately increased before the pandemic, but also as a result of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e100	I appreciate the fact that the Council of State is honest about the situation in mental health protection. It was problematic even before the pandemic, with a high rejection rate for both adults and children and young people. The major efforts have been lacking with this government, and in response to the effects of the pandemic on the mental health of children and young people, it is now a bit shaken throughout the core wall of all the structures mentioned by the Minister of Health. Opinions from child and youth psychiatry here in Oslo show that there has been a massive increase in referrals, and from September to March there has been an increase of 30 pst. in relation to last year. In particular, the number of eating disorders has increased sharply. Here there are patients between 10 and 15 years of age, and the waiting time for treatment is very many places. So what's my question to the government council is, what does he think about the long wait for eating disorders, where we know that the disease tends to get worse for every day that goes without treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e107	I would like to emphasise again that I am the first to point out the challenges we face in mental health, but I definitely do not agree that the great efforts in this area have been absent under this government – on the contrary. I just want to remind you that we have had a growth of nearly 2,600 years in the municipal mental health and drug work only for 2016–2019. I would like to remind you that when I took over as a health minister, the offer to children and young people when it came to mental health had been weakened in the year before I assumed responsibility. This is a significant bet. We have developed a psychological service in the municipalities to ensure that children and young people receive rapid help that does not need referral until they become so seriously ill that they need specialised treatment. In the case of eating disorders, it is one of the areas that we have prioritised, where we have introduced the first diagnostic-based package course, just to ensure reduced waiting time and continuous treatment. I am recording that the Workers' Party is now choosing to wind up the package trajectory in the area of mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e116	There will be follow-up questions – first Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e121	It is good to bring down the waiting time, and it is good that you are proud of your own bets, but legalizing the requirement for a municipal psychologist does not guarantee a single treatment period for children and young people. Action needs to be followed up with measures that can be put into practice by municipalities and that can meet children and young people. We have now been presented with the revised national budget, where several of the measures proposed by the Kjøs Committee are financed, but the question is, after all, about the municipalities, with the arrangements they have received in recent years, having the opportunity to expand this rapidly. Exposured families and vulnerable children are lacking in government plans, the Corona Commission has established its report. The consequences were not sufficiently investigated and healthcare professionals dedicated to these inhabitants were redispatched early in the pandemic. My question to the Council of State is whether he feels confident that the measures now being financed will lead to help and support and capture especially these vulnerable families.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e132	Yes, I am absolutely sure that these measures will have an effect, precisely because it is based on bets that have already been there, and it also makes it less complicated for municipalities to follow up. A significant part of this effort is also in the voluntary, non-profit sector, in line with the Kjøs Committee, which is also ready to do much of this job. Then it's true that the law of psychology in the municipalities doesn't give any more psychologists. The Labour Party voted against this law, so with the Labour Party's policy, the municipalities could today choose not to have psychological competence. But what we did before we legalized this was to significantly increase the number of psychologists in the municipalities. When I took over as a health minister, there were 130 psychologists in all the municipalities of the country. In 2019, the number was 617, and it's been increasing since. It now means that most municipalities have this important competence, not only to meet patients, but also to develop the offer to all.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e139	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e144	My question continues in mental health, but it goes to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. The Corona report points to three reasons for highlighting the impact on vulnerable children and young people. Vulnerable children may more often be exposed to unfortunate events, and they may be exposed to more serious incidents. Short-term and long-term consequences can be widespread for children because of this, and because vulnerable children and young people often have fewer resources to help with. This government has followed the situation for children very carefully – at a price. The results were discouraging. The government’s action package will help in the short term, but the Workers’ Party is concerned with the long-term consequences. Parents must get jobs, and ordinary people with low incomes must not pay for the tax cuts of the rich. Does the Minister agree that there is a prerequisite for doing something about the persistent poverty of children?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e154	I fully agree that one of the most important things we can do now is to secure people a job. If we're going to straighten up and help people back again, we need to make sure that businesses work, that they have jobs, and that people can come back to work. We know that the greatest difference in this society is between those who have a job to go to, and those who don't. That's why it's extremely important that we do what we can to get people back. It is the overall objective of the entire budget, both for the year 2021 and also for the revision, which was presented yesterday, namely the idea that we should include more, and that we must create more, both in the acute situation now and in the long term. This is why we also have very targeted and powerful measures at approximately. 900 million. Dr, who goes to mental health, as the Minister of Health spoke a lot about now, and to counteract the consequences that children and young people have experienced, whether it is violence, assault, mental illness or the fact that there are more people in poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e163	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e168	I'm recording that the tax cuts weren't part of the answer. The right-wing government has in all budgets chosen a policy that increases the differences between people. Cut after cut has made it harder to live for ordinary families. There are long queues of children and young people for Abup, the school fruit disappeared, the holiday money for the unemployed and the child supplement for the late disappeared, and the commuter supplement it was cut in. Cuts were also made for children with sloppy teeth or the need for glasses, while kindergarten prices went up. The working party will not have such unsocial, petty cuts that hit them with the least, hardest. We know that social inequalities mean something to mental and physical health. Does the Minister think that these cuts have helped to reduce the insecurity and stress of the most vulnerable children and their parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e177	I totally disagree with the description of reality coming from the representative. First, I can refer to tax cuts, because because of the tax cuts, a normal family has got $14,000 more to travel with. It means a lot to the families and to the ability to make your own choices. Is there anything about this government and the Christian People's Party, even when the Christian People's Party was in opposition, is the precisely targeted action against either children and young people growing up in low-income families, or measures that go right on these families. I can mention child welfare, with a historical increase of $8,200 for the youngest kids. It wasn't done in over 20 years. We've done that. We have increased the one-time benefit, which is for some of the most vulnerable, who are waiting for children, but have not come into work before. They're going to get approx. a triple of the one-off aid. In the case of kindergartens, it's also completely wrong. We've really prioritised those who have low incomes. That is why we have also lowered the price for those with low incomes, and we have free core time – point by point. Housing support has become more targeted for those who have the most difficulty. But the most important thing is to be able to get more people into work. That is why we have presented our own cooperation strategy in this area, where it is one of the important actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e186	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e191	10 pst. by those with at least reduced purchasing power during this government. 115 000 children grow up in persistent poverty. The queues for food distribution and organised summer activities are growing each year. They have increased steadily and believed under this government. So people are in line for food while the Christian People's Party is in government. Growing up in low-income families increases the risk of bullying, poorer physical and mental health, poorer and poorer housing conditions, more frequent relocations and less friends. 115,000 children in persistent poverty are status after eight years of right-wing policy. Statistics have gone in the wrong direction since 2011. The policy pursued by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs is a misguided policy that affects the vulnerable hardest. The government fines this with adhoc appropriations for holiday stays in the summer, gifts before Christmas and food distribution. Children of low-income families live 365 days a year. How many children do we need before the government takes over?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e200	Unfortunately, this is a development that has been going on for a very long time, not since 2011. One of the main reasons why many children grow up in low-income families is immigration. One knows that it's approx. 60 pst. of these families that are in that group. That is why the government has made a real commitment to integration. It's one of the main initiatives we have, because we know it's so important that they learn language, that they get educated, that they get to work. Either I mention the cash shock, the one-off benefit, many of these measures that the Workers' Party cuts once and for all, it targets some of the most vulnerable families. The most vulnerable kids get a more difficult starting point. We are implementing a targeted policy to get people to work, which we know is very important, but we also have targeted measures to alleviate the demanding situation. I share the reality description that this is a difficult starting point. Therefore, it is not just to hesitate that we have increased the bet on holiday and leisure activities. It's over 400 million. kr – it is a quadruple. It means a lot to come back again after the Easter break or the summer break and could have taken part in vacations in the same way as other children.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e209	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e214	I just have to say, I don't hareble at all with these appropriations. I'm just saying that's wrong. It is not useful to provide adhoc appropriations when there is something fundamentally wrong. The Council of State stands here and says that he agrees with the problem description, but that has not helped with these measures. After eight years, this government has continued with unsocial cuts, with tax policies going in the wrong direction. All of this has hit the most vulnerable. Cash benefits also affect the most vulnerable, because they do not get into work, and they do not get into kindergarten. So the policy of government is a strengthening of an unsocial policy that affects common people with low incomes. It is strange that the Council of State agrees with the problem description, but disagrees very much with the description of the measures that the government itself puts in place that prove not to work. So we have a reality out there that the government's policy doesn't solve. After eight years in government, negative trends are increasing. Does the Council of State understand that this is going in the wrong direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e223	Once again, I disagree with what Mr Henriksen says. I share the challenge description, because growing up with low income gives some extra challenges. This is why early intervention in kindergarten and school is enormously important. It ensures social mobility. So even if the starting point is hard, you can succeed later in life. It's been a major effort by this government. Only in recent years have several thousand teachers come to see each student, giving them better follow-up. If you look at the background figures on why there have been several poor children, one of the main reasons, as I said, is that more immigrants have come to Norway. My party is happy about that, because whether it's children from Syria or they're from other countries, we have a responsibility to help. But we also have a great responsibility to improve integration policy and to ensure that they can get to work. As far as child welfare is concerned, as I said, it has increased by 8,200 in recent years. It is not included in the last figures, because they are from 2017 to 2019. So the big promise that comes there might mean 3,000 fewer children in poverty. Many of the other measures will help them out of poverty in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e232	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e238	The big question here is the basic welfare services and the basic economic policy. In both of these areas, this government is leading a policy that is not for ordinary people and those who have the worst starting point. It shows all the statistics. 10 pst. of those with the lowest income from the past, they have reduced purchasing power, so with the highest income and the highest wealth they receive, they have tripled, quadrupled, five-fold and perhaps up to the hundredths of the party that is this government's tax policy. The Church's Bymition has also said that cash benefits and ad hoc measures are good – we also support the increase in child welfare, but we do not support the cash support – but they also say that there is a need to do something about the basic structures. And that's where I can't understand that the Council of State and Government can't see the context when it's gone completely wrong for eight years. Will the government change its policy so that the basic policy takes greater care of the disadvantaged?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e245	Let me repeat the most important thing we can do, and that's helping people out to work. It succeeds in getting young people through school, in getting their education, in getting a vocational letter, higher education, in being able to get a job – that is the most important measure to help these individuals and also help families and young people growing up today in persistent poverty. That is why integration is crucial. That is why education is crucial. And if there's something this government has invested in, then there's these fields and work inclusion. It's a little absurd to listen to the description of fiscal policy as well. As far as I know, the Workers' Party has supported large sections of the tax system. We agreed on a tax reform. I have looked at the promises for the next period, and the Workers' Party does not want to reverse the tax promises either. If it had been as hostile as the representative Henriksen described, I would have expected them to reverse the tax changes as well. They don't, and that means, as I said before, that a normal family has got $14,000 in taxes. It means a lot, it means, especially for those who have it demanding. Child welfare means an enormous amount – $8,000 more a year means a lot, especially for those who already have a bad economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e252	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e257	My follow-up question goes to State Councillor Bent Höie – it concerns mental health. I noticed that Prime Minister Erna Solberg in his statement in Stortinget on 26 April said: ‘At the same time, I would like to stress that the government placed great emphasis on protecting emergency services, the offer to cancer patients, children and drug users/psychiatry, which also worked well in the specialist health service.’ But the fact is that for mental health and drug use, according to the Corona Commission, it was specifically daily treatment that was reduced, i.e. the supply to the sickest. VG has reported that more than 5,000 agreements were postponed and canceled in the drug clinics, and that at least 77 patients were discharged from ongoing drug treatment. VG also mentions a patient who took his own life shortly after such a printout. Will the Minister of Health go through these publications, and does he think that the Prime Minister's statement that the specialist services are well-closed to screen the rush and psychiatry under the pandemic is credible?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e271	I believe the Prime Minister has kept his word. It is quite right that, especially in the first few weeks when a person had to lose activity, there was a rather severe decrease in some places, especially in the case of drug treatment. This turned around, and we gave very clear signals to the hospitals about the priority, and it was followed up. We can see that, among other things. the waiting times. While waiting times have generally increased during the pandemic, waiting times for both mental health and drug treatment have continued to decline. It's a sign of priority. The second is that we also see that one has managed to treat several patients, especially in mental health for children and young people. So although there has been a sharp increase — especially just before Christmas, when it came to the increase in the number of emergency patients — there is an increased activity. In the case of cancer, hospitals have actually also been able to implement the cancer package pathways more in line with the targets than they did before the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e282	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e287	My question goes to the Minister of Transport: Since this is the first time that the Minister of Transport has been in the Question Time since he presented the National Transport Plan, it is tempting to ask whether he forgot to use the calculator when he wrote several of the proposals in the plan. New Roads have been an important tool for the Progress Party. As soon as we received the Ministry of Transport, we started work on establishing the company to build faster, more and cheaper roads. Road development is now faster than ever. Roads of real four-field construction are being built, and the costs of expansion are falling, while the benefits go up. In the light of the success of the policy of the Progress Party, it is now envisaged that the company should expand with 11 new sections of the portfolio, including: E6 Otta–Dombås, E6 Åsen–Steinkjer and Rv. 25 Hamar-Løten, to name a few. This means that even more roads are to be built and maintained. It likes the Progress Party, but we get worried when the government commits new projects without increasing the annual allocations to New Roads. This means that the new projects will compete with the projects already in the portfolio of the company. And that could mean that it's the E39 project on South, E18 or some of the other old projects that are pushed out in time, because roads are not built by air and love, it actually has to fresh money to do. In the plan, the government also plans to conclude new urban growth agreements in Grenland, Buskerudbyen, Tromsø, Kristiansand and the Lower Glomma region. In addition, they will introduce it into the smaller urban areas, such as Bodø, Ålesund, Haugesund, Arendal, Grimstad and Westfold towns, but the Council of State cannot respond to the proportion of the bills he thinks the drivers will take. This means that the Council of State will open up the possibility of digging deep into the pockets of the drivers in order to charge even more tolls in these cities without telling you how much to risk paying. In fact, it must be allowed to ask the Council of State if he has forgotten to use the calculator before he argues with projects that will cost the drivers billions of dollars. So my question becomes simple: does the Council have a calculator, and – if so – does it work?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e300	Not only do I have a calculator, but I also have skilled professionals who are working on a plan to do two things: it's the most ambitious national transport plan that's made, but it's also realistic. I've been busy getting to both, because we've been doing more in this sector for the last ten years than for a long, long time. Road budgets have become more than double in ten years. The railway budget has become more than triple in 10 years. And now we're building more roads and more railways than in a long, long time. If we take the travel time from Trondheim to Oslo, it has in ten years been reduced by 1.5 hours if a car is running. If one runs from Ålesund to Oslo, the travel time is reduced by two hours. Running one from Oslo to Kristiansand, travel time is reduced by 1.5 hours. I think people see that we've given priority to the highways, but now we also have to do a lot on the highways. So to New Roads: Yes, I have been impressed by the work that the Progress Party did in government tied to New Roads. It has been a success. I also feel that those who were opponents of New Roads have been very quiet. And we continue that success: we give them more projects, and we say that they can get more time where they can take money, and so we also give the opportunity of New Ways to follow up on it. So for urban growth agreements, where I also follow what the Progress Party did, just by urban growth rates in the four largest cities. It's worked so well that we've reached the zero-growth measure. Yes, there have been some tolls, but it has worked. I also want to use the same recipe for success in more urban areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e309	It is interesting when the Council of State says that he has presented the most ambitious national transport plan – it is always presented, there is no bomb – but there is very little new, fresh money in addition to wage and price growth. So the Council of State says that realistic national transport plans are important, and clearly believes that when the Progress Party sat in the Ministry of Transport and doubled the appropriations on the road and provided for a significant increase in rail, provided for a significant increase in collective traffic, it was super-ambisious. Then the question becomes, when he says that there is a «realistic» plan: why is there then 11 projects that have been added without a single penny more in the annual budgets, in addition to a railway project of tens of billions of dollars? It seems that there have been some ‘hiccups’ with that calculator in the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e316	The 11 road projects that New Roads get, as the annual path to New Roads does not stop in 2036, which has been planned until now, but they will be carried up to 2041. In other words, New Roads already know that they get a promise that goes many years further than they knew before we presented the National Transport Plan. So to the question of what's going on about the joint project Ringeriksbanen and E16, which we've now decided to go to New Vegar. No funds have been added to it in the national transport plan, because the government finally decided to do so when we presented the revised national budget yesterday, and we naturally have to wait for the Storting to deal with such an important issue. But, of course, New Vegar must also have the means to carry out that project.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e323	There will be follow-up questions – first Bård Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e329	That is what the Council of State is now saying, that he has not actually invested the money to carry out important projects. This means – although he says that it is possible to extend the number of years – that some of the new eleven projects or some of the projects already in the portfolio of New Vee will be at risk of being pushed out in time. Then it becomes a little special that the government parties have traveled around the country and the beach and said that these projects are coming, while the reality is that no money has been deposited. In addition, billions have not been added to the Ringerix Railway, which is an important project. I think you should be honest and deposit money. In the Advance Party we dare to deposit money, because we mean something by it – and we want to. I also think the Council of State will notice that. I want to ask questions about urban growth agreements and urban environmental agreements. Ålesund is one of the places where the Council of State wants us to put a lot of tolls on the drivers. You don't want to tell me what the project is going to cost, a project for almost 4 billion. kr, but over 50 pst. By the people, you don't want this. Only on the upper edge of 20-25 pst. says this is a good project.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e336	There will be no urban capital talk in Ålesund, but we want to come up with a back-up scheme, where we are just helping to support road construction, building collective measures and securing bicycle and pedestrian paths. I have to admit that we know that some places are resistant to tolls. But what we see is that when people see what the toll goes to and experience that the infrastructure, the travels, works, they're willing to contribute and contribute. The paradox of the representative from Hoksrud here says that it is the urban areas that have seen how well it has worked for the four largest urban areas, which now wants to be the same. In Kristiansand and Tromsø they say that they want exactly the same kind of agreements that Bergen, Stavanger, Trondheim and Oslo have had. Why not use a recipe for success as in the four big cities, including the smaller cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e341	Bård Hoksrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e346	I record that the Council of State believes that there is great popular uprising and great commitment to this in these cities. I dare remember that there was quite a stir among people when you saw how much toll there was and the consequences of it. This goes right in the wallet to people, and it's money that you should actually spend on other things, like local politicians and the government think it's okay that normal drivers have to pay. The Council of State now says that the Arendal-Grimstad region will also be given a city package, a urban environment agreement, but it is about tolls – that is what is necessary to get it. That's at least how it's used locally. But the city councils in Grimstad and Arendal have voted against local bombing around the Arendals region. No new decisions have been taken or signalled political change in this position. Why, then, has the Council of State chosen to enter Arendal as one of the urban areas that can receive reward if you are in favour of local co-financing — or tolls, as it is actually called in good Norwegian?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e353	Toll agreements do not apply if they say no locally or regionally. It's been a leading principle, and I think it's a very good principle. I am concerned that cities should say yes to tolls. It has a cost, but a lot of politicians are willing to do it when they see that they're doing something about the infrastructure. In the national transport plan, which the government has now submitted, we have brought down the tolls. There is more government money and less toll in this plan than in that plan Progress Party announced four years ago. This shows that we understand that we have to make sure that the tolls don't get too high. I think there must be legitimacy in the population for the tolls, and then we have to make sure that we don't go too high. A lot of places say people: we are happy that the road comes, that the railway is there, that there is better public transport, and then we are willing to pay some toll for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e360	Tor André Johnsen – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e365	When former Minister of Transport Dale gave the whole of E16, from Ullensaker to Kongsvinger, to Nye Veier, the jubilee stood on the roof, and we toasted in alcohol-free champagne. The rapporteurs were also very pleased. Now they were finally going to have the built-up road that was stopped due to cost increases due to mercury and very poor basic conditions on the current trajectory. New Roads quickly launched a northern alternative to the Gardermoen and a separate alternative was launched. But now the consensus and the cheer have stopped. Now the municipalities are arguing about trasé. There is no longer a focus on the whole region or country – it is a purely selfish approach to what is best for itself and its municipality. In particular, one municipality blocks and requires the development of today’s trajectory – the track that was scrapped due to costs, the worst option that was simply stopped. Will the Council of State sit still and see that a single selfish municipality is trying to destroy an important extension, a national and European highway – or will he help us to find a solution that is in the best interests of the whole region and the country as a whole?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e372	I believe that both the former Minister for Transport Dale did, and the former Minister for Transport Solvik-Olsen did, are right. I think we should let New Roads be New Roads. The reason why New Roads have become such a success is that they have reduced costs by 20 pst. They have added value even more than that. But then they have managed their portfolio. Several projects that I have presented in this Chamber have been in the New Vegar portfolio, but they have been on their own initiative. They determine the order in which the work is done. I don't intend to go into singles and try to influence New Vegar's portfolio. We are now looking with light and light to continue this model of the railway because he has worked so well. That's why I'm not going to affect singles, singles, in New Vegar's portfolio.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e377	Erlend Wiborg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e382	The council mentions that there have been many improvements on the highways, but if you take rv. Nineteen through Moss, it's in a jam. The people of Moss are in line, and everything points out, even when you see the challenges with the railways, that it is going to be challenging for many years. There are different alternatives that are considered in the case of routes, but there is one area that the government is not talking about particularly loudly, and there is the cost of this, i.e. what costs are transferred to the drivers. Of course, it's related to what trajectory you end up with, because it's about how expensive the different trajectory choices are. We know that several of the trasé choices will mean that Moss residents will have to pay NOK 20 000 – NOK 30 000 per year to get to and from work. Will the Council of State make sure that the citizens now know, before the rollover elections, whether there will be a toll in Moss, and what an average driver will have to pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e387	I noticed the positive feedback from the National Transport Plan in Moss, because the highway was inside. I have noticed that many have expectations about it, because it is a major challenge as the highway is today. It's a significant job. What is the solution here? The state has said that we are willing to set up. We come with funds to solve this, but it's natural that it's a fissure layer. I also believe the people of Moss, with the challenges they have, are willing to face. I can't give you an answer today, because there are some years ahead. But the city council in Moss will also be involved in providing leadership for this, for what they are willing to do. I think a spice layer with Moss to do something with rv. 19, that's Moss willing to do, because I've noticed that this particular stretch was the priority of the government of the NTP, is very well received.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e397	Erlend Wiborg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e402	I record that the Council of State does not respond directly to the question. It is also a little special, I have to say, to take income that the inhabitants of Moss are very happy, when they have not been told what they are actually going to pay. Because it's quite essential. I do not think the Council of State is right when he creates the impression that the citizens are happy to end up with possibly paying NOK 20 000 – 30 000 per year to deliver the children in kindergarten, to get a job, etc. The situation in Moss is in a certain position because it is not the traffic within the city that creates the traffic challenges. Much of the challenges are created by the state imposing on Moss the call of the Bastø Fosen inside the Moss centre, and the traffic there is going on the same roads. That is why the Progress Party believes it should be clear that the State was fully financing the traffic problems they are imposing on Moss. Does the Council of State consider it irrelevant whether there is 20 000 or 30 000 kroner an average driver in Moss has to pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e409	I actually don't think the representative Wiborg understands how much frustration there is attached to rv. 19 in Moss. It's one of the distances where there are big challenges every day, at even intervals, precisely because of the ferry that goes there. I think it's a big wish to have something done with that in Moss. When the state says that we take the majority of that bill, I also believe that local authorities are going to be involved and want to get a solution. That's what matters to Moss. I also noticed that the representative Wiborg rightly pointed out that much has been done on national roads. In the national transport plan that we are now presenting, the biggest effort we have, individually, is on urban growth contracts, but also on the county roads, which I know is striking the district of Wiborg very strongly – just to get something done with the county roads. I'm sure we'll get a good solution with Moss, but we have to work on the project, and we have to know the wholeness of the costs before we look at the distribution between tolls and the state contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e416	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e421	My question goes to Minister of Health and Care Bent Höie. People don't understand why the government wants to lay down, scrape and then sell Ullevål hospitals. The professional environment of the Oslo University Hospital, whether there are health professionals in the Trade Union, nurses in the Nursing Association, the Leges in the Medical Association or the LO in Oslo, all end up with the slogan «Save Ullevål Hospital». All the elected representatives of Oslo City Council, except the representatives of the Right and Labour Party, are calling about Ullevål. Seven out of ten people in Oslo will preserve Ullevål hospitals, showing a poll. The reason for this massive support is that the professional community sees that the medical supply is getting poorer and more fragmented, while the social economists see that the scrapping of Ullevål is a waste with a building capital representing a value of well over 10 billion. kr. At Stortinget also supported by the government’s own representatives failing. The left is opposite. Central Right-Representatives are disunity, and the Christian People's Party does not say anything. But the performance project of Prime Minister Solberg and Health Minister Höie still has support from the leadership of the Labour Party, and that is it. This hospital investment will have a price tag of between 50 and 60 billion. kr and will therefore burden Norway's hospital budget for a year. For in spite of all the resistance to scraping Ullevål hospitals, the government is running hard on further. What has the Council of States understood, which people have not discovered?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e432	If you're talking about people, like... The patient and the user representative at Oslo University Hospital, they've probably understood the same thing as me. That's what's part of the challenge of the representative's posts, that one doesn't represent a real alternative. The same majority in Oslo City Council, and to the extent that the Central Party as a party, is very clear that they want to build new Aker Hospital. The professional fragmentation for which the trade union community at Ullevål is concerned is not due to the expansion of Gaustad. It's because of the construction of Aker. So if the representative is concerned with these counter-arguments against the model that means that we are going to build a new hospital on Aker, and build a new common regional hospital for Health South-East in Gaustad, then the representative has to present an alternative that could be agreed. Unfortunately, there is no such option. The opposition to Ullevål is very much linked to the construction of the hospital in Aker, to which I feel there is a strong connection. If we do not build on Gaustad, but instead we build on Ullevål, which is a real alternative – build Aker, build on Ullevål instead of on Gaustad – the representative will probably experience a similar resistance from the Rikshospital environment to moving to Ullevål. In addition, this option would mean that we had to spend a lot more money and a lot more time and take a significantly higher risk, which in turn could lead to that we did not actually have an up-to-date hospital offer in time for the growing population of Oslo, where, unfortunately, because this case has taken so long, we are in arrears.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e439	The government's hospital plans for Oslo contain both a regulatory risk, a professional risk and an economic risk. To take up the position of a professional: In the newspaper on 3 May, five key professionals at Ullevål University write that the government will provide their hospital plans in Oslo with poorer preparedness for major accidents and disasters, as disaster preparedness is split with the advanced medical treatment for New Aker and the surgical treatment for the New Rikshospital. A gas explosion is used as an example – should patients when ‘transmitting your poisonings be treated or are they going to be treated for the surgical damage?’ If the regional emergency response is split up, it will be possible to get serious on the day of a critical event. Does the government admit that the government's hospital plans will weaken disaster preparedness at Oslo University Hospital? Or does he mean that the OUS professionals are wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e448	No, I believe it will not be weakened, precisely because a very good process has been done with the professionals to find a better distribution of the emergency response between the new hospital in Aker and in Gaustad, which is just taking over some of the objections. Now I see that the representative Jan Bøhler is on his way to the pulpit, but the post that the representative from the Central Party now made was an attempt to build a new hospital in Aker. It amazes me about the Center Party now, when they have got the representative Bøhler into their ranks, who has been one of the biggest champions of the hospital in Aker, continues the fight against Aker Hospital. For the entire speech by the representative Toppe, an intervention in the debate was against expanding a large emergency hospital on Aker.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e455	There will be follow-up questions – first Kjersti Toppe.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e460	My installation was a post for Aker Hospital to become a local hospital for the whole of the Grorud Valley, and not the government, which has been postponing that possibility for years to come. That's our model, and that's why we can't support the government's plans. What has our argument to the Council of State is that one cannot go for the Central Party's model because one is to collect the Regional Hospital of Health South-East at Gaustad. But now, the OYS itself has published a report that says that several regional functions just end up in Aker. It shall apply, inter alia, to: High risk infection isolates, general renal medicine, gynaecology, etc. How can the Council of State explain that his main argument for not tearing Ullevål and having our model is that one has to collect regional functions in one hospital when a good part of these now are located on Aker instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e467	I record that the representative continues to argue against the functions and content of Aker Hospital. So here it's obvious that the representative of Bøhler will soon have to get out of there, so that one gets ready if the Center Party is now going to continue the fight against a large emergency hospital in Aker. So it's not uncommon that we also have some smaller regional hospital functions in other hospitals, but it's quite obvious that we need total regional hospital functions for Health South-East at all in one place. It could be on Gaustad. It could be on Ullevål. The challenge with the Ullevål option is that it takes longer, costs more money and represents great uncertainty. The representative was concerned about the risks in his statement. The representative’s proposal is that of the highest risk to the inhabitants of Oslo, the highest risk to the economy and – not least – the highest risk of never becoming a new acute hospital in Aker.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e477	It is the President and not the Council of State who controls who gets the floor in the Chamber, but the next person who is now going to get the floor for follow-up questions is Jan Bøhler.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e482	Thank you for that point. My question concerns the regulation plan for the extension at Gaustad, which is to replace Ullevål Hospital. It shall be in consultation until the beginning of June. The planning and building kit has not recommended the regulation plan, and a majority of the parties in the city council have already stated clearly that the framework of that plan is, with the height to which it is added, and the large building mass to be incorporated there, they are against the plans. Health South-East has also stated that there is a major regulatory risk in the case. My question to the Council of State relates to how he thinks: Will he just go ahead and invest everything in one card when the treatment of the regulatory plan is so uncertain, or is it behind that he will agree to use a state regulatory plan if the City Council does not agree to these plans? Because it seems like he has a tactic with almost going straight ahead no matter what he encounters.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e491	The risk of regulation is also linked to Aker Hospital. The height of the Aker hospital is significantly higher than the height of the hospital planned to be built in Gaustad. But I think the representative Bøhler and I have both helped to build a new hospital in Aker. I would like to remind the representative that his great fight for Aker Hospital was first given a possible victory when we got a government change and I was taken over by the work on these plans. And I felt that not least the representative of Bohemia was one of those who really cheered at the time I presented the plans that meant that we had built a new hospital in Aker. However, the representative, Bøhler, has now joined a party group that spends all its time on torpedoing the plans and thus also torpedoing the plans for Aker Hospital. With regard to the regulation plan in Oslo, it is the Municipality of Oslo that is now the regulatory authority. I'm waiting for them to follow up these plans, and I can see that the objections raised by the level department are objections to which solutions can be found.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e500	Jan Bøhler – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e505	Now the regulatory risk for Aker is much smaller than for the project at Gaustad. The level and building seat have not similarly marked the distance from those plans, nor have the parts of the city council. So it's about local hospitals in Aker for all the parts of Groruddalen – it's been the primary thing I've been cheering for all along. Akershus university hospital wears with the capacity and needs the download. The council said in Stortinget on 9 March that «the building mass on Ullevål is very much destroyed», whereas Health South-East in its report on Ullevål says that approx. 100 000 m 2 on Ullevål are suitable premises. It's about the same as for the hospital that's planned in Buskerud. The rooms that are in order are acute receptions, cancer centres, children's centres, high-infection isolates, etc. I would like to ask the Council of State: Has he recently visited Ullevål and seen the well-functioning buildings? And does he think he gave the correct information to Stortinget with that statement on March 9th?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e515	Yes, I do. It is absolutely right that there is a lot of good building mass on Ullevål, but the challenge is all the building mass that is not good. If one is going to go for the option of moving the Rikshospital to Ullevål, it means a significantly greater risk and challenge, because then there is a greater proportion of the area that needs to be renewed. I would like to remind you that a lot of the business that is currently operating on Ullevål operates with partial exemption, and we have spent a lot of money on taking temporary measures in order to be able to have hospital operations at all in parts of those premises. It is quite right that new premises on Ullevål are also built that are good, but the choice between building new on Gaustad or building new on Ullevål means that Ullevål’s standard will require a significantly greater investment and risk and therefore economics, and not least the risk to the inhabitants of Oslo, represented by the representative of Bøhler.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e522	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e527	Bent Höie's plan is to put Ullevål down, split the emergency environment into two and divide it between Aker and the Rikshospital, which is irresponsible according to those who work with emergency medicine, who are currently on Ullevål, and which it is absolutely vital for us to have under one roof, together. In the event of a disaster, a terrorist attack, a major accident, we need all the experts together to have a roof to save lives as quickly as possible. So there are strong warnings against this plan from an overall professional environment. The alternative to this is, of course, to preserve Ullevål hospitals, expand Aker as a local hospital for the Groruddalen and scrap the plan to build a tower on Gaustad. Does Höie see that this is a more sound plan to ensure emergency preparedness for the people of Oslo and surrounding areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e534	No, that's the opposite; it's a considerablely irresponsible plan that the representative here stands for. Firstly, it involves significantly larger investments with much greater uncertainty. It will mean many years of delay. In addition, such a plan would mean that the rest of Norway would have to pay a rather high price for adding to a hospital structure in Oslo that would require a greater share of its total highly competent resources. This is a challenge already, and it will be reinforced by the Red Party and the Central Party model, which means that patients in the West, in Northern Norway, will have to experience in the Inland that they do not have the skills needed for their treatment. It is concentrated in the Oslo area, where there is already a concentration of that type of competence. This means that even more patients have to travel from the South, from the East, from the Inland to Oslo in order to receive treatment that they could have received in their local hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e539	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e544	I have rarely heard so much bluff at the same time from the pulpit here on the Stortinget as that which now came from Bent Höie. First of all, we know that it's going to be about 20 billion. kr cheaper to preserve Ullevål and expand on Ullevål instead of laying down the entire Ullevål and building these infectious towers on Gaustad, which is Bent Höie's level – plus not least Aker, where he will build giganticly over what is needed, namely the local hospital of Groruddalen. That's what they want, and they can get it. But of course, you put Ullevål down, you have to build huge on Aker, everybody understands, but that's not our plan. Secondly, the risk is enormous in the case of Gaustad. Plan and construction are not for this. Oslo isn't for this. Seven out of ten people in Oslo are against this plan. Thirdly, there is no need for more professionals in Oslo to remain in Ullevål Hospital. What's controlled here is patient inflow. It has something to say for the number of employees, but it's not that you're dropping the plan for a giant hospital in Gaustad, which is Bent Höie's big plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e556	The President would just like to remind us that we should have a parliamentary vocabulary in the Chamber, and that characterising the views of other representatives or states councils as 'bluff' is not considered to be that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e561	I think the representative's posts were very clarifying, because this is the first time we've got the honest explanation from the party Red that they have significantly lower ambitions for Aker Hospital than the government has. I hope that the representative of Bøhler and the Center Party will remember that one of the leading allies they have in this case is now talking honestly about what their alternative actually means, namely that one will build a significantly smaller hospital, a hospital with less content, on Aker. There is something quite different than what I think the voters of the representative of Moxnes in that part of Oslo have seen before. I think that this article brings us closer to actually getting a discussion about the two real options, namely an alternative with a significantly smaller, less substantial hospital in Aker and a transfer of the Rikshospital to Ullevål, which will cost more, have a higher risk and take longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e568	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e573	We in Red have been clear all along that if you don't shut down the emergency hospital Ullevål, our largest in the country, you don't have to build a new emergency hospital in Aker. We've been clear about that all along. What they've been missing for years is having a local hospital in Aker. It was laid down, adopted by the red-green government, it was a gigantic loss. It should be rebuilt for the districts of Alna, Bjerke, Grorud and Stovner. If, instead of keeping Ullevål and having a single emergency medical professional environment under one roof, which is absolutely crucial, we know that from July 22, we will split it up and divide it between Aker and «Riksen», which is the plan of Bent Höie, then we risk – and the experts say – having to send a lot of damage, perhaps dying, patients in shuttle traffic in ambulances between Aker and the Rikshospitale. That's what's irresponsible. And there's no answer to whether there's going to be a global emergency medical profession somewhere that we have today at Ullevål, with Bent Höie's plane. The people of Oslo, as well as the East, deserve a clear and clear answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e580	Yes, with the representative's proposal, the inhabitants of Oslo East will not get a full-fledged emergency hospital that can help them in acute situations. The consequence of this is that we then have an – very large – emergency reception still on Ullevål, which will also grow significantly. But it is not necessary to have such a large emergency reception for so many patients at the new hospital in Gaustad to maintain, for example. the national trauma function in Ullevål Hospital today. This is one of the new work that has been done to find a better distribution of patients and functions between the new regional hospital and Aker hospital, which makes Aker hospital a major emergency hospital, but at the same time has a large enough basis for both patients and content to maintain the local and, not least, regional and national functions of trauma services for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e585	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e590	The pandemic we're in the middle of, has seen health professionals across the country in an unlikelyly demanding situation. There is an enormous amount of work, work at all times of the day, which is very inconspicuous and gives an unlikely pressure to work on them. This is happening on top of the fact that we are in the middle of a crew crisis in the health sector, and numbers from the SSB show that the crisis is going to get even worse in the time to come, if nothing is done. The SSB estimates that we will lack 28 000 nurses and 18 000 health professionals in 2035. The National Audit Report of 2019 showed major problems in hospitals in recruiting and not least in keeping nurses, midwives and specialised nurses. Two out of three jobs in addition to part-time. A recent study by the NRK among top leaders in Norwegian municipalities shows that one of three municipalities has doubts as to whether they are able to provide home-based care for those who need it in the future. So this was the situation and the investigation that happened before the pandemic. So the pandemic has come in addition, in the middle of a crew crisis. There is reason to ask questions as to whether the situation is worse now, whether the low manning, as much part-time and challenges as the pandemic additionally leads to, will lead to even more deaths. So the question is, is the Council of State agreed that we are now in a national manning crisis in the health sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e601	I fully agree that we have major challenges in the years to come in recruiting and not least keeping enough health professionals in our municipalities as well as in our hospitals. It's probably especially in the municipalities that the challenge is greatest. I also very much agree that all health care employees have worked extremely hard in the year we are behind, and in the situation we are in now. Many are tired, many have stood around the clock, and many have had a very great responsibility and many great concerns. This means that we are dependent on recognising it, but also looking further at how to ensure that many young people still want to work in this service, and not least that those who work there are already there. That is also the ambition of the government in Competence Council 2025, which we presented in connection with the state budget for 2021. There we launched not only recruitment, retention and further training of more people, but also work to reduce the use of part-time, to reduce the number of temporary workers. We also established a cooperation forum with the Norwegian Nurses' Association, the Trade Union, Delta and KS, where we are now sitting around the same table and working on the follow-up to this specific plan. This is about a major and also complex problem. That means, of course, we need to increase educational capacity. We have to make sure that those who apply for the education carry out the education, and we have to make sure that they also apply and remain in the service. For those who work in the service, we see that there are some factors they put very much emphasis on for them to thrive and stay, and that's among other things. good management. This is why the government has launched a continuous leadership development programme for the whole health and care sector. It's about the possibility of working in a place where there's good staff, where you have good and safe colleagues. That's exactly what's also in Competencelift 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e612	I didn't realize that the Council answered my question: Are we now in a national crew crisis in the health sector? There's a lot of good reasons to believe it. The council did not answer that question. Here we are in a situation where too few health professionals are in the health sector. There is too little staffing, too much part-time, too little continuing training, too few places of study and practice, and too many stop early. The SSB has just carried out an examination of it: half of the party does not complete the education or training or does not enter the profession after education or training. There is also too low a salary, which applies to all the women-dominated groups in the public sector. This was the situation before the pandemic, and this doesn't contribute positively when we're now inside the pandemic. Does the Council of State see that we need to join forces politically in order to face a manning crisis that we are facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e621	Yes, I fully agree that we have major challenges related to recruitment in the future. It is also true that in some departments, in some municipalities and in some areas it will be felt that one does not get recruited as a crisis in which one is. It's in different areas. It may be that someone in a municipality does not feel able to get hold of permanent doctors. It'll feel like a crisis. It may be in a nursing home, where one does not get enough qualified nurses to apply for a job. It'll feel like a crisis. We now work and have worked systematically for a longer time to solve this. What we see is that the plan we worked for up to 2021 has produced significant results. First of all, there has been a significant increase in the number of annual work in the municipalities in this sector, and we see that of those recruited, there is now a greater share of those in education. There are many thousands who, through this programme — involving a significant earmarking of funds — have received continuing training and have gained their skills. So this is work that gives results, and it has to be reinforced and continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e628	It opens for follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e634	It was interesting that the Council of State drew it up with increases in the number of annual works, because the question is whether there is an increase that corresponds to the geographical challenges we have as a society. That's what the SSB is based on. Do we have enough people to meet the needs of the people? That's what we don't have. The NRK has one thing today – where the Council of State also figures – about Andrea Volle, Mathilde Heggen and Malin Myklebust, three young people who consider themselves to be strongly ill nurses. There are three out of 13,370 young people who want to become nurses, but there are only 5,100 places to study, which are then dimensioned according to practice places. It's in the middle of a situation where we really need to increase the amount. Then the question is, how does the government actually work systematically when one for eight years has looked at the same problem day after day, and then one is still far, far away from keeping a form to meet its needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e643	Here one talks about two different relationships. One is what is the projection of the situation we can stand in the future. What many of these projections have in common is that I have ordered them, just to get a description of the challenge picture in the future, in order to meet it, so that we don't end up there as these projections describe. I also heard these great representatives of young people who want to work in healthcare, on the radio this morning. What I thought was fun is that they're already in an education, that's to become a health-care worker. That's the other big group we want to lack, not least in the municipalities. I am very concerned that we are going to lack both nurses and health professionals. I also hope that those we heard, who had ambitions to move on and become a nurse, will have the opportunity to do so, but I really want to say that what we also have to do is simply to raise the status of health professionals, because we need a lot of health professionals in the healthcare sector in the future. That's why I have, among other things, All hospitals in Norway are required to have apprentices in the field of health — as they were in the process of leaving — precisely because we need to ensure that the entire healthcare system uses the essential competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e652	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e657	Yes, it is the status of all those who work in the health care system who really need to be raised. All women-dominated welfare and health professions need to be raised. That is the problem today. Here they meet a reality with extremely high labour pressure, too low a crew, too much part-time and too low a salary. People stop too early, people don't go into their jobs, and then the government doesn't do what they really do, by taking care of the big problems there. Just to take one example: Now the council has more questions in a row he hasn't answered, so I want to ask a question about how it goes with one of the really big jumplifts Erna Solberg raised in 2015. She then declared at a major health conference that by 2020 15 000 nurses and 15 000 health professionals would receive continuing training. Has it happened? Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e664	Yes, that's what I was talking about, about Competencelift 2020, which has now been followed up by Competencelift 2025. Through that programme, just thousands of unskilled, skilled and highly educated people in health and care have received continuing training. I don't have the numbers by hand, they can possibly get the representative on a written question, but there is no doubt that that programme has contributed to the achievement of many of the goals we set at the time. We're probably not in a situation where all the goals have been achieved, but that plan has really contributed to a promise, we've seen. I fully agree that part-time use is something we have to live on in this service. We've managed to bring down time use in our hospitals, with more of all or more jobs. There we have a bigger challenge in the municipalities, which we also work with, and that's one of the things we're also going to work on in Competencelift 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e671	Nicholas Wilkinson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e676	I disagree with the Council of State that there are some crises in some parts of the country. We have a crew crisis in Norway nationally, and I hope the Council of State can say that. I had a very difficult conversation with Tea Leonardsen, who is a PD at the OUS, and who works as a nurse at the Children's Cancer Department. She tells of a work pressure that is so high that over time, nurses end up in the profession. She says that you have to be able to offer high-quality nursing care, care and care, and that then the staff needs to be considerably strengthened. That's what SV agrees with. That is why we need to get more education positions, practice places, apprenticeships and increase funding category for nurses from E to D. Does the Minister of Health agree that we need more measures, which SV has now proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e685	A number of these measures are in the government's plan, so it's nice that we have SV's support in that work. These are measures that we are now working with the trade unions and KS to meet. So I agree that there are challenges to recruitment in some hospitals, but I would like to stress that the biggest challenge in the years to come is going to be in the municipal health and care service. In our hospitals, there are also many people who experience a lot of work pressure. I am concerned that we see the health, environment and safety of employees and patient safety and quality in a context. That is why we have now set up annual studies, which include both health, environment and safety for employees and patient safety and quality for patients, so that at all levels of leadership throughout the service, through management and quality regulations, we are required to review the results of these studies and make continuous improvement work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e694	Tuva Moflag – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e699	First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the President and all other nurses on the day of nursing! We in the Workers' Party share the SV's view that we are facing an overall crew crisis in healthcare. We have a fixed medical system that has been approaching collapse, and we already need several thousand health professionals and nurses. By 2035 we can lack as many as 28,000 nurses. In parallel with these major manning challenges, or crises, throughout the healthcare system, we also have a high degree of part-time work both in hospitals and in the community health service. On the very day of nursing, I would like to ask the State Council why he does not do more to secure the entire position, and why we have not put in place more study and practice places for nurses. We know that universities in Norway reject qualified applicants — and that in a situation where we will lack several thousand nurses.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e708	We have increased study capacity, but it is also important that we work to solve what is really our main challenge: that the study places can increase together with the practical capacity. This is something we work with the Ministry of Knowledge, because it is also important that those taking this training get a good practice that makes them want to stay in the service and not get a different picture of the service through the practice period and thus do not apply for a job there. Then I'm very busy that we're going to strengthen the work of reducing the use of part-time. Part-time's not good. It is not good for the employees in the service who want to work more, and want to have an income that they can live on, and a pension that they can live with. But it is also not good for the service, and not least it is not good for the patients. We know that the continuity of a treatment course is incredibly important for quality, and much use of part-time contributes to poorer quality of service.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e716	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e721	Then the Minister of Transport can go up again. Recently we could read about the Spanish entrepreneur company Acciona, where several leaders have been convicted of fraud and money laundering. Acciona is a well-known company also in Norway. They build a new E6 between Ranheim and Værnes in Trøndelag for Nye Veier and have a large billion contract there. Acciona is also involved in several major transport projects in Norway, among others. Sotra connection. The Sotra connection is a big project, in the order of 10 billion. kr, and, as far as I know, Acciona is just one of three entrepreneurs in whom the assignment stands – all three for other foreigners. Yesterday, the Stortinget decided to build the Hålogalandswegen in Nordland and Troms, a gigantic project for 17-18 billion. kr. There is reason to believe that for this project, too, foreign entrepreneurs will be involved, and there is one of the points here: The government is now making such large-scale development projects that in many places only the large international group is able to submit tenders. The question is, why is the government doing this? Why does the government have a policy that leads to such huge expansion projects that only foreign contractors can actually win the tenders? And the Minister of Transport thinks it's a good idea to, for example, Acciona builds a road and manages transport projects in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e732	There is an important issue that is being addressed here, for dishonesty we do not want from Norwegian or foreign suppliers. I am pleased that the evening post went in and discovered the kind of things that we could read about 10 May. I would also like to point out that Acciona joins the well-being of the Evening Post article, but they also think it's another image – it could be in both Norwegian and foreign companies. They also point out that it wasn't at the leader level these bad additions were, it was at a lower level, according to them. In any case, it is important that we work for both Norwegian and foreign actors to act in a proper way, and then I believe openness is very important, and I believe that the work of the Labour Inspectorate is very important. So to what's the main question from the representative Sverre Myrli, and it depends on what actors we want. We would like both Norwegian and foreign actors, and if we go back ten years in time, the death penalty from a gathering of Norwegian businesses was that they wanted larger road contracts. They didn't want us to build that much piecewise and divided, but more holistically. I now feel that the message is that some of the contracts that we have issued are experienced as being far from large, and there is a message that we can bring with us. We have also done work, such as Ryfast, which was a very large project, but was divided into smaller contracts. That's the possibilities we're looking at. I have said this from this chair before, and I would like to repeat it again: we are looking at the possibility of even coming with smaller projects, more adapted to the Norwegian players, but I would like to see both Norwegian and foreign players in the Norwegian market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e743	I agree with the Minister of Transport: there is reason to praise both the Evening Post, Bauk.no, the Free Trade Movement and others who are working on this, and who have revealed critical circumstances. The Minister for Transport has presented a national transport plan of 1 200 billion. kr. When it comes to spending so much money on transport, we must ensure that Norwegian construction, Norwegian transport and Norwegian companies pay taxes to Norway, which have apprentices and contribute to vocational training, which has Norwegian wage and working conditions, which are good for health, environment and safety, and which are in the driving seat for digitisation and use of new technology. It's important that we support that kind of business. Nobody says we're not going to have foreign companies, but now the development is that the contracts are getting so big that soon only foreign companies are winning the big contracts. Does the Minister for Transport not consider it important to support the Norwegian construction industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e750	I totally agree with that, and I thought I was happy. In 2019 I saw that 19 out of 21 projects went to Norwegian contractors, Norwegian subcontractors. So that's going to say that we're happy pretty good. It has not been many years since, under the red-green government, State Council Marit Arnstad moved abroad to lure foreign suppliers into the Norwegian market. And I think with the activity that is now in the field of transportation, not least road and rail, we also need foreign actors. So we also have to point out, and there I thought the representative Myrli had a very good point, that building a road is something else now than it was a few decades back in time. We see that we have some of the most exciting engineering projects in the world, and we have to make sure that Norwegian operators are part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e759	There will be follow-up questions – first Sverre Myrli.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e764	Back to the Spanish Acciona, which must at least be said to have a questionable reputation: it's not the first time we've met that kind of company. We remember how things went with the Italian contractor Condotte, who couldn't do the job they had done on Follobanen, who actually escaped the country. It delayed the expansion project and probably resulted in 2 billion. kr in increased costs on Follovanen. Condotte has actually left Norway. They have no representatives in Norway and owe a number of employees a lot of wages for work they have done. We also remember the Austrian Alpine Bau, which went bankrupt, and which was going to build parts of the E6 and the Dovrebane along Mjösa. Norwegian entrepreneurs had to take over, and the project cost hundreds of millions more. I ask the question again: does the Minister for Transport still think it is a good idea to facilitate a greater presence of foreign companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e771	As I said, 19 out of 21 projects went to Norwegian suppliers, subcontractors. Then I don't think we can say that we're facilitating that it's the foreign people who take the big cake here. But I'm busy picking up the signals from Norwegian business and Norwegian suppliers, who ten years ago said they wanted bigger and bigger projects – now it's a contradiction. That's what I'm talking about. So I want to say that Acciona here has admitted that precisely this case has been demanding for them. They have also made a settlement with the authorities relating to the matter covered by the Evening Post. The important thing for me is that that type of company is certified, approved, and then we have to do what we can to comply with both Norwegian and foreign actors, so that they comply with Norwegian law. And we know that in this industry, unfortunately, there is a possibility of being unrealistic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e778	Severe Myrli – for raised questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e783	I think we just have to state that no one has claimed that all the assignments go to foreign companies, and no one wants to put any ban on foreign companies either, but there is now a development where the projects get bigger and bigger. Sotra is 10 billion. kr and the Hålogaland Road between 17 and 18 billion. kr, and it is clear from the Norwegian construction industry that these are so large projects that it is very difficult for Norwegian companies to get them. Then the number is not exactly that interesting, if the Norwegians get some small contracts, and then the foreign people are left with the giga contracts, but it's worth looking at. The impression is that the government wants larger and larger projects, huge projects, and there will be international entrepreneurs who get those assignments. And it seems like the government thinks this development is quite right. This can lead to pressure on Norwegian wage and working conditions and, in the worst cases, to social dumping. Does the Minister for Transport not see any concern about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e790	Once again, when we invest as much in commerce as this government has done and will do in the future, there will be a lot of big projects. I think I'm completely natural. But I have said several times in this reply that we have taken the signal that there is now a wish for smaller contracts. We follow up and look at the possibility of that. When it comes to E10, which we debated on this matter on Monday, and which was adopted yesterday, it is not certain that the description given by the representative Myrli here will be quite correct. I share the description of the Sotra connection and the contract there. There we know that it's foreign that's in front of him to get him. When it concerns E10, there's another image given to me. But we've taken the signal. We want Norwegian suppliers, contractors, as part of these contracts. That's why we also look at the size, because we've got a wish for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e798	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e803	My question goes to the Minister of Health. The coronary apathy has led to the cancellation of planned treatments and operations by several public hospitals. At the beginning of the pandemic, this was a major challenge that led to the suspension of more than 100,000 agreements in Norwegian hospitals. Some of the delay has been resumed, but during the third wave of infection several hospitals had to reduce their capacity again. Treatment capacity in the most infected areas has been particularly affected. Oslo University Hospital reduced the number of treatments and operations by 25 pst. earlier this year, and other hospitals are also struggling with the regular patient treatment. As a result, health cows are increasing again. During the budgetary procedure in Stortinget, 250 million were spent. SEK to regional health enterprises, earmarked for increased purchases of services by private operators – in order to reduce health cows. The money has been granted to prevent sick people from waiting unnecessarily long. But are they used as the Storting expected when the budget was adopted? The answer is actually found in the government's proposal for a revised national budget, and that is quite depressing reading. Despite a government and a health minister saying that it is desirable to use private health care providers for the benefit of patients, there is a small proportion of the funds used to purchase services from private hospitals. Six months after the budget was adopted, little has been done to follow up the decision of the Grand Duchy and to provide more rapid treatment for the sick. Only Health Nord has a very concrete plan to use their share of this additional allocation. Additional purchases are targeted at large disciplines with capacity challenges. For the others, concrete initiatives have not been taken. The increased funds have been earmarked for the reduction of health cows, but the money is on book and health cows are growing. That is the question: is the Council of State satisfied with the follow-up of the budget decision by health businesses and how will the Council of State ensure that health businesses actually use the additional funds allocated to reduce queues?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e814	It is right, as the representative says, that the government and the Progress Party agree that buying the free capacity from the private sector is a good solution for resuming some of the things that had to be put at risk in connection with the pandemic. Then I do not think I agree that what we are presenting in the revised budget is discouraging. Health South-East, which is the largest health region, has added to an increase in purchases from private suppliers of more than 270 million. kr in the budget for 2021. It's significant over what they've been earmarked for this, which is 129 million. kr, so they have followed up the political guidance signal in this area. As the representative has said, Health Nord, who has got the smallest share of this, has also already made concrete agreements, as we explain. You also work with both in the Health West and in Health Mid-Norway. And I come to the follow-up meetings that I have with the health regions this summer, to ask for further evidence that they are following up on what is the political governance signal, which we have also reinforced with the financial instruments that we put in place here as a result of the budget agreement with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e829	I hear what the council says. At the same time, I also read what is in the revised budget. The whole purpose of this ringing of 250 million. In reality, the purchase of private services was to be increased in order to contribute to increased treatment and reduced health cows, and we are not yet there. At the same time, we have several examples that private individuals can carry out both treatments and operations. They have no waiting time, they could help increase capacity, and it's the public that's funding, so for the patient it'll only be a good thing. Then again, the question to the Council of State: how will the Council of State help us really to use the funds that are now allocated, 250 million. kr, so that we get the effect that was desirable from Stortinget's side, as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e836	I'll do that by following up health regions closely so that they actually use them for that purpose. I also perceive that they report that they are working with and have plans for. Then we also have to have some respect for the fact that the Storting has passed a law around this with acquisitions that make it not just turning around from one day to the other. This requires a certain process, in addition to the agreements that they already have, for which they may increase their use and which are also part of it. I would also like to point out that, fortunately, we also have free treatment options, which are much simpler. There are no tenders which may be notified by private authorities to be able to carry out operations in the areas covered by the Free Choice System. It is an important arrangement that has also been agreed between the Right and the Advance Party and the Government, and which unfortunately is now at risk if we lose the elections to the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e845	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e859	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 12, from the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik to the Minister for Climate and Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance who is directing him. Question 13, from the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete to the Minister for Climate and Environment, must be postponed until the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e873	‘People’s higher education schools are a valuable alternative to the formal education system, which has no grades and exams, but which provide learning and new motivation as well as driving general education and developing life skills. Public schools are more popular than for a long time and offer a large range of courses and courses throughout the country. Will the government present a national plan for the growth of student places and the establishment of new public high schools, while reviewing support and funding schemes for public higher education institutions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e880	Thank you for asking about public schools. I fully agree with the representative that public schools are an important part of the diversity of education provision. For quite a number of people a year in public higher education is a very important and different experience in the time between secondary education and other education or working life. This is why the government has decided to set up a public body to carry out the social tasks of public schools and whether they have framework conditions that build up under this mission. The Committee shall deliver its report on 1 October 2022. No major changes have been made in public high school policy for a long time. The previous NOU on public high schools, NOU 2001: 16, Freedom of diversity – on the framework conditions of public high schools – was presented 20 years ago. This government has invested in public high schools. For many years, no new public high schools have been established, but since 2014, six new public high schools have been approved which can receive grants for nearly 800 students. Total uses about 1 billion. DKK for grants to public high schools each year, in addition to expenditure on training aid. Over 10 pst. of each youth school spends on average DKK 120000 on a public high school year, in addition to equipment and pocket money. Then it is important that we are absolutely sure that the students get a high-quality professional high-school year. The Committee should therefore also look at the professional quality of public higher education schools and the recognition system for new public higher education schools. Through this sample, we will be able to gain a better basis for assessing the dimensioning of the provision of public higher education. The public schools have important qualities that we have to take care of. The committee shall take the view that public schools should continue to be complementary to the formal education system and that they are mainly targeted at young people and young adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e893	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. I myself have had three kids who have attended public high school and have taken higher education afterwards. It's true that this is very important for generalisation and not least it can give a new perspective on life. Today, there are very many skilled fires working to establish new public high schools. Here I can draw up many examples, but I will draw out two examples from the state council's own county, Trondelag: Øyrekka public high school at Mouse's infirmity in Frøya and not least Røro's public high school. Here is an environment that has worked for a long time to produce good, professional plans for the two offers, but then there is a lack of good clarification from the government and the state council on further progress to be recognised as public high schools. Can the Council of State clarify whether these public higher education schools will be able to start before such a message is now notified?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e902	I would argue that the last eight years have really been golden years for the public high school sector. Before that time, very many years passed without the creation of a single new public high school, and the last time it was seen entirely on it, when a government left sat in, gave a mission to launch a NOU. So I believe that our parties have really followed up this well. In the case of Øyrekka, it received a start-up grant in the revised national budget last year and the plan is that they will receive further appropriations, as long as they meet all the requirements and are ready to start up, in the national budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e909	I thank you for the answer here as well. It is both good and good, but still there is no national plan for when new applications can be made at a level and possibly on a priority list. This means that many of those who work year after year with good professional content and have obtained funding do not receive feedback as to whether their application is accepted. Can e.g. Røro’s public high school, which has gone through all the quality requirements for professional content, etc., and which has a very exciting offer as a background – related to the southern Sami environment, Nordic public high school, etc. – expect to receive a similar grant as, inter alia: Eyeball public high school has been given? Or will it be waiting for new government feedback according to a national plan on 1 October 2022?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e916	It is up to any majority to create a budget, to give priority to new public higher education schools even before we have completed a comprehensive plan. In the last eight years, six new public higher education schools have been approved, which means that a fairly large number of new student places have been created across the country, including the United Kingdom. in Svalbard, in the South and a number of other places. There has undoubtedly been a deliberate investment in public high school. We have also seen that the number of applications has increased, and that many have wanted to enter public high school. What to do before we have an overall plan, whether it's relevant to say yes to new applications or not, we haven't decided. You might open up to create more in that period as well. The last time I checked, I think I had an overview of approx. twelve public higher education schools, which were in preparation, wishing to receive support for the start-up of projects. In addition, we know that a lot of existing public schools want more places, and that's exactly why we want to do a more thorough job, so that we can take good, professional judgements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e926	The question is: ‘Testing, testing and screening in school have been discussed. The size decided in 2018 to carry out a review of the quality assessment system in which tests and educational outcomes at school would be updated in line with new school curricula. This has not been followed up. VG revealed on 4 May that the Council of State has started work on a new test regime in school. The right of the NRK P2 Political Quarter on 4 May states that national tests and PISA provide insight into what students learn at school. Does the Council of State wish to increase the testing pressure or to promote school learning?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e935	The government is following up the request decision of the Stortinget to review the quality system in school together with the parties through the reference group for the renewal. This has also been informed by Stortinget in Prop.1 S for 2020-2021. I have regular meetings with the group and discuss with them what changes we should make to the quality assessment system in the light of the innovation. They have absolute transparency of all assessments made, both by the Directorate and by the Department. The proposals for changes to the tests are part of this review requested by the Storting. When we created new curricula, we focused on openness, co-creation and early involvement. This I believe was good processes. I want to continue this very line of transparency and cooperation when we're going to change both the tests and the other tools we have for quality development, so that they better support the intention of professional renewal. National tests and screening tests are currently providing valuable information for quality development and for capturing students who need additional follow-up. I do not think there is a contradiction between having tests and having a focus on learning, as the question from the representative Knutsdatter Strand gives the impression. We don't add up to more tests in school, but the tests are going to get better. I am concerned that the tests must be of good quality and that they are well associated with the curricula. Once the schools have been given new curricula, it is natural that we also update the exams, so that the contents of the rehearsals reflect the curriculum. I also believe that we really have a responsibility in all areas to continuously improve the quality of the tools and tests that the school uses. Based on feedback from sample users, the Education Directorate has made recommendations on how to develop them in the long term. We have decided to continue with a two-sample model that will replace the current national tests as well as both screening tests and character and learning support tests. One type of test shall support the en-route assessment in the classroom and the other shall provide a basis for quality development in schools, school owners and national authorities. The purpose of each test shall be clarified. The tests shall provide better facilities for students to experience mastering. The development of the samples is in an early stage. Key issues such as: the skills, subjects and disciplines to be taken into account in the tests have not been decided. Test developments will continue over several years, and it is a process in which I believe it is important that we involve early and broad.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e954	Central questions may be clarified in someone's eyes. Lille soil and the rest of the expert group point out in their interim report that participation is crucial for quality in school, including the understanding of different levels. The letter of assignment from the Ministry of Education to the Directorate of Education of 24 March 2021 stated that it is a sample of the report prepared by the Directorate of Education itself in 2020, entitled ‘Tests in the Innovation — What Needs Are the Samples to Cover?’, to be introduced. The report confirms that the Centre Party has claimed for a long time, namely that national samples have failed. Instead of doing what the Biggest has decided, going through the entire rehearsal gym in school, driving the government and flicking on today's system. Now the Left Right is about to sneak into the competition school with symbol politics and so-called improvement of tests. The tests shall be carried out in several stages, including: 2nd grade. What evidence does the State Council have, apart from the Education Directorate's report, to claim that this is the right model to give these insights into quality and development?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e961	Now we have experience with national tests in approx. 15 years. Over these years, we've had some experience. We have a lot of research that shows what these tests give us good answers, and how they don't work so well. The research, all the experience and feedback we get from the sector has been the basis for us to start a process to assess both the national tests and the entire quality assessment system. So is it also that because of the innovation we had to develop new tests, and then it was a good time to ask ourselves, is there any other change you should make at the same time, when you're going to make new tests anyway? You can't run and change national tests. They're going to lose their function if you're going to always move on time, on the subject, and on the way they're done. If we're going to make any changes, this is a good time to start with it. We do that in very close dialogue with the parties. They have had full access to Directorate of Education's reports. We have had several meetings with the parties on these reports. It's been full transparency all the way. I think it is very exciting that VG calls something a revelation, when we have sent out press reports about it several months ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e968	It's a question of who the tests are for. Education directors of the Education Directorate write in readers’ letters in the VG that the development of new tests should provide support and that interested parties should be invited. State councils and education directors express that the tests have not been completed. As I said, key questions have already been clarified, as they also appear here today. It is not the opinion of the Centre party that the teacher's prophecy is screaming for more control and control through tests, which is outlined both through a look-up in the VG and the Education News that the government wants. All 18 June 2018, the Ministry of Knowledge sent a letter to the Directorate of Education on the development of examinations in school after the involvement of the Directorate of Education back to 16 March 2018. The decision to review the quality assessment system took place in Stortinget on 11 June, and the processes were then merged. Involvement and information for those concerned is not the same. Where does the Council of State see a crying need for more control and control through tests when the teaching profession is so clear that the need is different places?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e975	The purpose of further development of the samples is no longer control and control. Then I think the representative has completely misunderstood. The aim is for us to make better tests that will enable us to develop the school, both more adapted to the individual student’s needs and more information at the level of governance, so that we can put in place important measures. For example, it would be interesting for national authorities to know something about the math skills in primary school. Is there a need for us to have some special promise there, bet on further education or something like that? But there's not least a much greater need for individual teachers to have better tools to provide adapted training for their students, and that's one of the most important things, with the one change that we're proposing, for us to develop our own tests to provide much better feedback on each student. It's not about control. It is not because national authorities should have control, but because individual teachers should know how to follow up their students.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e985	It's the same theme, but I'm going to focus more on the process ahead. The question is: ‘The VG has revealed that the right-wing government has asked the Education Directorate to prepare a new comprehensive test area at school. The Minister of Knowledge expresses her desire to push through a new testing area at a high pace, as there is a danger that a new political majority will change it. Will the government push through a new test area with more and earlier testing of the students, before the elections, so that there is no time to involve the most important actors in the school; the employees, the students, and the parents?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e994	At least I can assure the representative that this Council of State, from the Left Party, has not intended to push through anything, but let all processes take the time needed for us to get a good professional basis. Experimental developments are closely linked to the introduction of new curricula in school. When renewing the curricula, we also need to update the examinations to provide relevant information for use in en route assessment and quality development. I hope the representative agrees that new curricula require new tests. Test development takes a long time, and we need to be sure that the new tests meet the needs of those who will use the tests. That's why I want to open processes, of course, where we can discuss alternatives and recommendations before we make decisions, as we do right now, for example. I have dialogue with the parties on how we can further develop the entire quality assessment system, and we have had several meetings where we have discussed various recommendations from the Education Directorate in the test area, both these questions, which relate to national tests, and also completely different themes, such as: The smiley mapping, which was a theme here in the hall yesterday. When the tests are to be developed, we will also ensure early and continuous involvement, and we will find good solutions with those who will carry out and use the information from the tests. Based on both professional recommendations and discussions with the parties to the school, we have decided to continue developing two types of tests. The Education Directorate has recently passed on recommendations, but we have not taken decisions on, for example: the stages in which the tests are to be carried out, the subjects and disciplines in which they are to be covered or the number of tests. These are questions that I want to discuss further, both with the parties and with professional environments. The objective of further development is better support for quality development and school learning. There shall be no more tests, but the tests shall more meet the needs of the different users. National tests have helped to provide us with useful knowledge of the learning outcomes at school. I believe it is important that we still have this knowledge, but that we also take the time to improve the tests so that we are sure that they provide the best possible support for learning and quality development. Work on the further development of national testing is part of the review of the quality assessment system requested by the Stortinget. It is important to stress that the quality assessment system is about much more than just the tests, and that the development of the tests is seen in the context of other quality development tools and resources at school. The different parts of the quality assessment system must support, individually and collectively, under the objectives of the professional renewal so as to provide good and relevant support for quality development. However, I believe it is right that in a process of assessing the whole system, it must also be possible to make decisions along the way, make changes along the way, and not sit and wait for absolutely everything until we have completed a full review. For example, it would be pointless not to start adapting new national tests to new curricula, even though we have not yet decided what happens to the student survey, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1015	We in the opposition have long criticized the government for being late with this process, when the trade renewal has already begun to work. After all, the description of the Council of State does not appear to be a complete and open review, when two types of tests have already been decided and are now in the process of evaluating the recommendations of the Directorate of Education. To the VG, the Council of State said it is important to keep a good pace with progress. And what I'm wondering is what the sector can expect in the future and what the Council of State means by this. If you have an excessive pace, I am afraid that it will be at the expense of involving the parties. The council says what involvement until now has been. It is that there have been some meetings, the teacher has had access to the reports, and there have been general discussions in the reference groups. Now the State Council has had a little more time to look at the recommendations of the Education Directorate. Could she be a little clearer on what progress you can expect here, and what process the government intends to initiate?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1022	The involvement so far has been something quite different than on a general level. We have been discussing details in the reports provided by the Education Directorate, including: teachers' organisations, and we've had several meetings where we've had the opportunity to record both the assessments we've already made and those we're going to make in the future. We're going to have a lot of these meetings. We've had these meetings almost monthly. And as I said, there is full transparency about absolutely all documents in this case, that's why VG can write about it – it's full transparency. We have delivered press releases when we have made decisions, we have been in News of the Day eighteen when we have discussed it from here. So here we have no intention of shutting down the process at all. We're going to make decisions when it's right to make the decisions, when we think we have the right professional basis, when we've made all the clarifications we need, with all the ones that are going to be involved. What I meant by keeping a certain pace, is that at some point, when we've had new curricula for a while, we need tests that are adapted to the new curricula. The most recent time for new tests will probably be the school year 2024–2025 at the earliest.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1029	It is useful to clarify more clearly, and it is fine if the Council of State can elaborate a little on the reference to the 2024–2025 school year, as the government sees this to be clear. There have also been serious, or clear, objections from the trial environment, both UiO and NTNU, in letters about this. Some of the Education Directorate's recommendations for this are called unwarranted recommendations, and you are concerned about how the new tests you are now proposing will be met in school. I'm very concerned that you're now spending the time you need, and will again challenge the Council of State if you shouldn't, when you're going to look at this, be more complete and get away from the two types of tests that the Council of State says the government has decided – if you shouldn't have a broader view of it, when you really have time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1036	When we work with the quality assessment system, we work in a combination; we see the whole, and then we also work with the individual parts and the continuous development of them. With regard to the criticism that has been made by the Directorate for Education's proposals from individual professional communities, there is a criticism that we take seriously and that we have to go into. We have not yet evaluated the proposal we have received from the Education Directorate. It has come in to the Ministry of Knowledge, we have neither made a decision nor made a proper assessment of it. We will listen carefully to recordings from professional environments and not least from teacher organisations and others who have good input into us. We want an open process. So that would be the way that the choices we make now will be what defines what kind of assignment to give. It is often the professional environments that actually develop these tests, both the Mathematics Center and the University of Oslo are examples of that. So they will also be important in the actual development. But there's no test yet developed, we're still just discussing what premises to base on when making such a mission.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1048	My question also concerns the new test regime, and I would like to remind the Minister that orientation is not the same as involvement. ‘The VG has revealed that the Minister of Knowledge has asked the Directorate of Education to prepare a new test regime at school. Here it is suggested that all students down to the second stage should be tested on a mandatory basis and that the results of these tests can be compared. Does the Council of State believe that the new test regime will have an impact on students’ learning, and in that case why does the Council of State not have confidence in teachers and school leaders in seeing the whole of the new test regime she wants to implement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1057	The government has not decided to introduce a new test regime. What we have decided is to further develop the national tests as part of the work on the overall quality assessment system in Norwegian school. As I mentioned in my previous answer, it is that once we have got new curriculums, we also need to update the exams, so that they are closely related to the curriculum. I believe that the representative also agrees. Further development of the tests is part of the review of the quality assessment system requested by Stortinget, which I do in close dialogue with the parties. And that's dialogue, not information. The aim of the further development of the tests is to provide teachers, school managers and school owners with better support for their work on in-flight assessment and quality development. Another important part of the new tests is that they help students to experience motivation and mastering. In view of, inter alia: professional recommendations and discussions with the parties have been chosen by the Government to proceed with the development of two types of tests to replace current tests in the long term. One type of test shall provide better support for en route assessment and the other shall provide a basis for quality development in schools, school owners and national authorities. The tests to support in-flight assessment will be primarily a pedagogical tool. This means that they should provide as much information as possible as possible to promote learning and adapt education to the needs of the student. A test itself doesn't necessarily give better learning, but it can provide a good starting point for capturing things and following up the students much more focused. We've only decided on the main model for the new samples. Key issues such as: the skills, subjects and disciplines to be taken into account in the tests have not been decided. Nor have we decided which steps the new samples should be on. Today, we have several mandatory screening tests at the earliest stages of school. It is important that students who struggle with initial training are caught as early as possible and get the help they need to learn basic skills such as reading and billing. It is therefore natural that we discuss whether there should be some types of first-stage tests in the future as well. The challenge of today’s screening tests is that they only reveal which students have professional challenges, which students perform at a low level, but that they provide little information about the pupils who perform at that level, and therefore a very small basis for adapted training. But I stress that no decision has been made on what steps these tests should take, and that these are questions that will require more investigation and assessment of the need for information about the youngest students.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1074	In order for the individual teacher to know as much as possible about his students, the minister said to the representative Knutsdatter Strand. I've been working at school for 17 years, and I've never met a teacher who's been surprised when he's seen his students' test results on national tests. Norwegian teachers know their students best. There is no lack of response after VG revealed this. The central board member of the Education Association Simon Malkenes says to the VG that introducing own governance tests only to control and manage municipalities, schools, principals and teachers will provide more testing pressure and stress for the children and is a down-priority of practical-esthetic subjects in school. Teachers already think there is too much reporting and testing in school. What will the Minister do to get fewer reports and more time for the students in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1083	Based on the question, I am very unsure whether it is the national tests, the tests to provide management information, the representative is skeptical of, or whether it is the tests to provide individual information about the students. As far as the last thing is concerned, I think there are a lot of teachers who have experienced that they haven't received enough new information from today's national tests, and there's also some of the main reason why we want to introduce such a distinction, that we're doing other types of tests that are meant to obtain the exact kind of information that gives much more information to the teachers, so that they can follow up their students better. Yes – I know that very many Norwegian teachers have good tools to identify professional challenges and to discover what the student can, not least – the most important thing is that you find out what the student can and can build on it. I also think the vast majority of teachers will recognize that it's obviously part of the students' not a thing to catch up well enough. When it's true that we still have students who don't learn to read and write, and when there are students who start in high school without professional qualifications, there's obviously a lot of students that we should be able to help before, and that's exactly the purpose of those tests.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1090	It is not only at SV's new test set-up to the Council of State that raises concerns. The new test regime has also raised concerns among experts who have participated to date in the design of the national tests. In a letter to Minister of Knowledge Guri Melby, Jostein Andresen Ryen and Olav Dalsegg Tokle warn against the yet unfinished rehearsal. They are concerned about the consequences of replacing current national samples with two new ones to support management and quality development, respectively, and in-flight assessment. They are afraid that the new test plans can make it easier to use and misinterpret the tests. What has the Minister intended to answer this letter?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1095	I believe that what we're talking about is saying something about what we think it should be. When the representative calls it a test regimen, I realize she's skeptical, because I don't think either of us want a school with a test regimen. I call it a quality development tool, because that's what it is. That's what you intend to do with it. I believe that if we were to abolish national tests today, it would have meant that we went back to the situation we were in in in the 1990s and early 2000s, where we had little or no overview of the professional level of Norwegian students, where we had very little basis for making political decisions, and where school owners, school leaders and teachers also had very little information about their students. I think this is very important for us to be able to adapt the training to each individual student. And it's most important for those students who don't have parents who have the resources to run and take care of this themselves, and who actually need us, as national authorities, to follow the training offered to the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1103	‘The Nordic Police and Troms and Finnmark did not meet their own response time requirements in eight out of nine categories in 2020. Since the ‘close police reform’ was launched in 2016, response time has increased in several places in the northernmost countries. Some patrols have to cover huge areas. Among other things, there is one patrol in Mid-Throms in the evening, night and weekends. This shall cover an area of more than 11000 square kilometres – a larger area than Rogaland County. Does the Council of State feel that police preparedness in North Norway has improved as a result of the reform of the police?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1110	Since the representative asks a yes/no question, it is tempting in itself to only answer yes, but let me explain why police preparedness throughout the country – including in Northern Norway – has been strengthened as a result of the police reform. These include: established stronger operational centres; the interaction with the other emergency states has been strengthened by the co-location of the emergency response centres; and with the increased competence of the patrols, they can carry out more police work on the ground. A key element of the police reform has been the development of strong disciplines in police districts, such as: in criminal investigations and operating centres. These professional environments have contributed to strengthening the capacity and quality of police work throughout the country. Demanding geography and great distances make helicopter an important part of Northern preparedness. Let me therefore mention that there is an agreement on the civil lease-in of helicopters stationed at Tromsø airport, with one hour's standby, to support the police districts of Nordland, Troms and Finnmark. Since the agreement entered into force on 1 May 2020, it has been crucial for police first action in several tasks. In addition, I would like to point out that the police staff has increased significantly since the government joined. Since the end of 2013, police staff have increased by 3,600 years of work, of which 2,500 are police. In the police districts of Nordland, Troms and Finnmark, the number of annual works has increased by 289. The police's budget has increased by a total of 4.2 billion. kr during the same period. The capacity survey carried out in the police shows that, although there has been a decrease in the number of loner offices, the police are moving out on missions where people live. The survey also shows that the police spend as much time on urban and urban missions and that the police have the capacity to give priority to minor incidents. Since 2015, national demands have been made for police response time at national level. It has been important to ensure increased attention from national police management in police districts on police response times. It is the Police Directorate that sets response time requirements for the police districts. I am aware that Nordland, Troms and Finnmark police districts did not meet all the requirements and targets as set out by the Police Directorate in 2020, and I expect that to be done in the future. The police are systematically working to improve the response time results in those areas where the requirements are not met. Response time results for the police districts of Nordland, Troms and Finnmark are followed up in the governance dialogue between the Police Directorate and the police districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1123	Now the state council was in the helicopter situation of the police in North Norway. In 2016, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, DSB, published a crisis scenario entitled ‘Risk Analysis of School Shooting in Nordland’. That report included: evidenced that helicopter resources on Bardufoss could be used. This readiness is now gone. Now we know that the government has a relaxed relationship with the analyses from DSB in terms of preparedness, but if school shooting or the like should occur in North Norway, it unfortunately helps very little to call a friend. What is the preparedness of the police in North Norway for the most serious incidents, which require both sharpshooters, a lot of policemen, transportation – fast over long distances – and helicopters?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1130	The Central Party has many police issues today, including: about police helicopters, so I'll come back to it thoroughly. It is that overall helicopter preparedness in Norway has never been better. In the case of rescue helicopters, in the case of police helicopters, and in the case of defence helicopters. The representative gives the impression that the Bell helicopters could have been used for sharp missions. They couldn't. The Bell helicopters were used to transport policemen. We have now hired two civilian helicopters, and we actually saw them in action now in April outside of Ålesund. They have very good capacity, they are very strong, and they did a great job saving both crew and boat. This type of helicopter is now leased in, with one hour response time. In addition, we have new helicopters at the National Emergency Response Centre. It's not a center built for the Oslo region, it's built for the whole country, as well as the Bell Helicopters are now freed for the Defense. So the readiness has never been better, nor in the case of helicopters.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1137	I think there's a big disagreement about that. And if the helicopter readiness in North Norway can be said to be strengthened, I think there are shared opinions about. In the East and South East police districts, response time requirements for police are 22 and 24 minutes to places where there are less than 2000 inhabitants. In North Norway the corresponding requirements are 42 and 43 minutes. What are the reasons why people in places such as Stokmarknes, Lavangen, Skjervøy, Loppa and Båtsfjord have to expect to wait about twice as long as the police, compared to sites of similar size in e.g. Telemark, Buskerud and Eastfold? This shows that preparedness is not given priority to people in Northern Norway as to the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1144	Yes, I know that's what the Center Party is trying to achieve, and there are no shared opinions about actual resources – that's the presentation of it. The representative Borch is now trying to represent it as if two plus two is two, when two plus two is actually four. So it's strengthened preparedness, it's strengthened presence. What is also the situation is that this government, from day one, has given priority to preparedness, has given priority to the police. That was not the situation when the Senter party itself was in government. Then there was no response time requirement at all, and we read the page up and down about events that happened in all parts of the country, where the police actually didn't come. Now we've made sure that we have such demands. Then, of course, the goal is that we should meet these requirements, and as the representative knows for sure, it is based on a police, preparedness assessment of the risk of events occurring, and based on the population figures in the municipalities concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1154	‘The two Bell helicopters that the Red-Green government was set up to prepare the police stood at Bardufoss by 2020 with an hour’s response time. That readiness was terminated by today's government. The replacement was a private helicopter in Tromsø. For many years, the police have been practicing the use of the Defense Helicopter as a sniper platform or to fly personnel into a building or similar in a terrorist situation. Do the police have helicopters on standby in North Norway for which they can use between other counter-terrorist operations today?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1161	Demanding geography and great distances make helicopter an important part of police preparedness in the north. When the defense moved their Bell helicopters from Bardufoss to Rygge, the police therefore established an agreement with a civil helicopter supplier. The agreement provides police access to a civilian helicopter from Tromsø airport with one hour response time. The helicopter supports Troms, Nordland and Finnmark police districts in their task solutions. This is an important capacity to increase police mobility and speed up response time for police response. Since the agreement entered into force on 1 May 2020, the civil helicopter in Tromsø has been crucial for the police's first efforts in several missions. The helicopter shall be used for the carriage of personnel to the police, with weapons and equipment, by sea and mainland. It may also assist in facilitating search and rescue for police purposes. The helicopter shall not be used by the police for sharp operations. The main task of the Defense Bell helicopters, which were on standby for the police when they were stationed at Bardufoss until 2020, was also to assist in the transport of police personnel. The use of helicopters for sharp missions, such as counter-terrorist missions, imposes high standards of equipment and competence on both pilots and operational staff. This competence is reserved for national specialist environments in both defence and police. Police helicopters stationed at the National Emergency Response Centre of Taraldrud shall therefore be used by the police for sharp missions and for a sniper platform. The police can also ask for assistance from the Defense Bell Helicopter at Rygge. If intelligence indicates, or in the case of planned operations, it is fully possible to move the police helicopters or the Defence Bell helicopters to bases elsewhere in the country. This also applies to North Norway. After an overall assessment, the Police Directorate believes that the police's transport capacity by helicopter in North Norway is not impaired after the establishment of the civil helicopter in Tromsø. Of course, I have confidence in the assessments they make. I would also like to stress that police preparedness in the north consists of more than helicopter capacity. It's about the police. It is the police who are closest to assessing how police preparedness should be optimised in the individual police districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1174	I thank you for your answer. A civil helicopter is just as little like a police helicopter as an Avis rental car is a police car. It actually confirms the Council of State in its answer. Last Wednesday, the Council of State said here in the Question Time: ‘In addition, it is again that the Centre Party is notoriously concerned about the geographical location of our helicopters.’ Of course we are, and the Minister of Justice should also care about that. Sweden has five police helicopters, from Boden in the north to Malmö in the south. Countries around us with geographical distances, such as the United Kingdom, Germany, Poland and Austria, have police helicopters located on bases around the country. In this country, police helicopters from Austria’s mesmerising countries need to be operated two or three times in order to refuel, for example. to Troms and Finnmark. So it takes hours for you to get help. If a geographic location doesn't mean anything to the Minister of Justice, why can't she spread police helicopters around the country, just as likely to be there as in the Austland?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1181	It's pretty interesting to compare with Sweden. We must be very happy that our police training, our police coverage, our response time and our capabilities help us to have a completely different crime scene in this country than what we have in Sweden. A small example is that we solve all the killings, that doesn't matter to the Swedes. I think they're resolving 40 pst. or something like that. Of course, in terms of capacity, geography means something, that's not what I've said. But what the Center Party is doing all the time is counting offices, so they count helicopters or boats, and then they say it's equal to preparedness in Norway. It's not like that. We're actually a pretty small country, and we're totally dependent on helping each other. It's about the police and the defense, and it's about our special forces, which are located on Taraldrud. Taraldrud is a national emergency centre. It's made for the whole country and it's supposed to help the whole country. But first there are the local police forces. Therefore, it has also been important for us to provide budget coverage to train them at Taraldrud, no matter where in the country they work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1188	Governments are right that Norway is in a way a small country. We are also, to a large extent, a long country. A little bit of the point of spreading helicopters on bases around the country is that we have our big country, and that's why we have helicopters spread around in many places. If a person gets a heart attack or a cut is on the move, there are medical helicopters nearby. If the neighbor has been psychotic and is looking for a gun, or there is a major and serious incident like a terrorist attack, both the police and the people in the West, in central Norway or in northern Norway today have to wait for a police helicopter or a helicopter from the defense of the Austland. Does the Council of State really think this is good preparedness for the whole country, or is it gambling that serious accidents, crime and terror are just going to happen in the Austland?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1193	The answer to the last question is, of course, no, and that's also why we hired civilian police helicopters. There's better helicopter coverage in this country now than it's ever been. So this representative, like the previous representative, gives the impression that the Bell helicopters had a completely different mission for the police than they actually had. They also give the impression that civil helicopters are much worse than other helicopters. Of course it's not like that. There are now two police helicopters that have as their mission to assist the police with one hour of response. That's the same thing that the Bell helicopters had. The difference is that the Bell helicopters are now released to the Defense, so that the defense's preparedness has improved without weakening the police's preparedness. We have invested significantly in the National Emergency Response Centre. It may be thought that it is not important for parts other than the East, and I completely disagree with that. Action personnel first on site are the most important, but the national response forces will assist the whole country in the event of an incident.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1205	My question is as follows: ‘Telemark has fewer police officers now than when it was its own police district. According to the Brønnøsund Registers, only two of the remaining Länsmann offices and police stations in what is now called ‘GDE Telemark’ have more employees today than before the reform, while the rest have the same or lower crew. The crew has stepped down into cities such as Skien, Notodden and Kragerø as well as smaller places such as Seljord, Rjukan and Bamble. How do fewer employees contribute to the objective of the near-police reform of an operational, visible and accessible police?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1214	I know that the Central Party wants to believe something else, but there has therefore not been any fewer employees in the police, neither in the South-East police districts, nor in the other police districts. Since the start of the police reform in 2016, the East Police District has added 75 additional police years. So, after the government joined in 2013, there have been 3,600 more paid annual police posts in total. The vast majority of these are in the police districts. With regard to the statistics from the Brønnøysund Registers, to which the representative Sem-Jacobsen refers, I would like to repeat what I have said earlier in response to representatives from the Senter party: these figures do not give a proper picture of the police force in each municipality. This statistics do not show that employees registered at a permanent police station are in practice carrying out their work in several municipalities and are available throughout the district. After the establishment of South-East police districts, new units have been established, and smaller offices have become part of larger offices. Tasks, such as: As a result, the handling of guards and preparedness and investigation of difficult criminal cases are resolved within the overall resources of the police district, and in specific cases by national special bodies. It helps the police today to deliver better police services to the citizens of the entire police district than was the case in the past when the competence was spread in several places of service. During 2020, geographical holdings have received a significantly higher share of the increase in police year-on-year than functional units. 76 pst. the increase in the year 2020 has led to the strengthening of the geographical holdings. This reinforcement continues. In the budget for 2021, the budget for the police was increased by about 578 million. kr. The increase is mainly aimed at strengthening police geographical holdings and will increase local presence and police force where people live and move. As Minister of Justice and Security, I am committed to ensuring that the police have the best conditions to do the best possible job, while at the same time the police themselves have to perform the police professional tasks and assessments. It is those who have knowledge and insight into how resources should be allocated and set up to meet citizens' expectations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1227	I think it is sad and also strange that the Council of State cannot recognise these figures from the Brønnøsund registers. But maybe she can admit that the police coverage in the South-East police district is only 1.59 police per thousand inhabitants. These include: that very many policemen have been centralised away from Telemark to mainly Westfold and Tønsberg. Telemark has gone from 436 policemen before the reform to now just 380, cf. The SSB and the Brønnøsund Registers. But Vestfold, which is actually smaller in area than Vinje municipality, has increased from 591 to 747. It turns out that Tønsberg alone has more than doubled the number of employees from 220 in 2015 to 474 on 11 May. So they have increased the number of annual works – almost twice as many as in the whole of Telemark counties combined. How do these 250 employees, who have come to Tønsberg through the reform, contribute to a slightly more operationally visible and accessible police force in Telemark, as there are 56 fewer in Telemark?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1236	It's pretty interesting to talk to the Center Party. They're talking about counties that don't exist. They're talking about janitor offices that don't exist. They're talking about police districts that don't exist. The fact that the centre party has not taken over is that Norway has changed considerably in the last ten years. They have obviously not taken over the clear recommendations we received from the Gjørv Commission. So the people who work in Tønsberg don't do a job just in Tønsberg. I really would recommend the representative, Sem-Jacobsen, when we get the opportunity to travel again, to travel and visit a police district. It is true that where the police headquarters, the operating centre, for example, is located, they will have more employees than other municipalities. That's why the Brønnøsund records don't say anything about the police force in the South-East police district. The police operation centre has its entire area of impact – the entire police district is a unit of intelligence, they do it throughout the police district. The center party counts the number of people in an office, but you have to look at the job they're actually doing. It's very good that we don't have an operating centre that's distributed throughout the police district.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1245	I think it is very discouraging to say that this has nothing to say. The GDE of Telemark shall provide a call-out in Telemark and the crew shall be reduced by 13 pst. The telemarking knows this on the body. In a population survey in 2020, when they were asked about the claim: the police are regularly visible in my local area, answered a total of 36 pst. by the respondents: quite or completely in disagreement with the claim. It is significantly higher than the national average. If the Council of State chooses not to focus on the response, we can look at the response time measurement in this area. In fact, on emergency missions to sites with less than 2000 inhabitants, the police in the South-East police district actually spent 5 minutes longer in 2020 compared to 2016. The number of missions at these locations, of which there are very many in Telemark, of which you do not want to recognise as a separate area, has tripled since 2016. And events in the media show that there are increasing numbers of firefighters in Telemark who have to deal with dramatic situations. Will action be taken soon to ensure that South-East police districts also meet their response time requirements, or is it okay for the Council of State that the response time increases, especially in places with less than 2000 inhabitants, many of which are in Telemark?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1256	The President will remind you that the speech is to be made via the President and not in du form to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1261	It's by no means meant to be demeaning, but when you refer to municipal sizes and to counties that don't exist, it's going to be very difficult. We discuss and compare incomparable sizes. I do not know if the representative of Sem-Jacobsen acknowledges that a new, strong operating centre has been established in the South-East police district. It is important for all the inhabitants of the district. We've set up new community units – it's important for all events that happen throughout the district. That's what I'm trying to falsify. There is not the number of employees in one patrol in one municipality in the district who tell us something about the police's efforts, it's the preparedness of the entire district. So it's much, much better than before, even though I understand that the Central Party has a plan to reverse this. The ones about it. It is then important for me to stress that, of course, the GDEs are important. That's why last year we had a historic addition of 400 new policemen, which, when the covid operation is completed, is to be added to just the GDEs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1273	‘According to the NRK, in 2013 there were nine police boats in Nordland, Troms and Finnmark. In 2018 the number was four, while last summer it was two. The coast line in North Norway of 41 954 km has only two boats, and only one is seagoing. In comparison, there are five police boats on the three-kilometre stretch Akershu fortification to the island of Sjursø in the center of Oslo. Why does a country largely composed of coasts and seas not have police boats that allow policemen to be transported quickly to islands, over fjords or enforce the law also at sea in the north?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1286	It is quite right that there were several police boats in the police districts of Nordland, Troms and Finnmark in 2013, but I would like to stress that it is not the number of police boats alone that provide a complete picture of police preparedness or the ability to enforce the law at sea. The police have close and close cooperation with various co-operators who exist locally, both the Coastal Agency, the Red Cross Help Corps, the municipality's archipelago service and the State's natural supervision. The police have also concluded their own cooperation agreement with the Rescue Company, which has more than 50 operational skates all over the coast. This cooperation agreement significantly strengthens coastal preparedness, especially in the case of emergency police operations, even outside the high season for recreational boating activities. The police department has informed us that the police will have about 20 boats available this summer, which is about the same as last year. The police’s maritime service in the districts is different in size depending on the number of ships at sea, geography, coastline and climatic challenges as well as local priorities. Police maritime services, like other visible police operation services, intend to create security, regulate behaviour, prevent unwanted behaviour, exercise control and help the public in the event of an accident or the need for assistance. It is also an important element of the overall preparedness of police districts in the event of emergency incidents in the coastal zone. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that the government's long-standing commitment to the police has led us to have 3,600 more annual works since 2013. About 2,500 of them are police officers. In the police districts of Nordland, Troms and Finnmark, the number of annual works has increased by 289. The police's budget has increased by 4.2 billion. kr during the same period. The budgets of the police districts of Nordland, Troms and Finnmark have increased by more than 350 million. kr. It is the police officers in each district who are responsible for allocating the total resources within the limits given. I trust that resources will be distributed in a way that provides the best security for the citizens, both by land and by sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1297	We see that the government is increasingly suggesting that someone else transport the police if necessary. The state resources are centralised, like the Bell helicopters and the police boats. Recently, we could read in Finland that there is strong criticism in the East Finnish Council that police snowmobiles and ATVs have been centralised. Is it really good police readiness to gamble that someone else has the resources when the police have to get there quickly, whether it's at sea, in the scooter loop or by helicopter? Why is it that if you get a heart attack or the house is on fire, medical helicopters, ambulance boats or the local fire department, while the police have to try to get a hook with a boat, a helicopter or a snowmobile, if there's anyone nearby?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1302	It's amazing how the Center Party manages to present the police as a taper case in the last eight years. So the police have been budget winners. There have never been any more employees. There have never been more and better capacities – with boats, cars, helicopters. There has never been better preparedness in all parts of the country than it is now. We don't sit in the Justice Department and don't distribute people or materials to the districts. We are confident that this will be assessed by the police. For the first time in my life, I think I should allow myself to quote the Central Party's principle and action programme, where it says: ‘The Central Party will give greater responsibility and influence to the police and local police in determining staffing and resource allocations based on local analyses and priorities.’ I think that's very well said.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1312	The largest cities and the directorate have increased preparedness and the number of police officers, but we have not increased police resources, for example. on the Helgeland coast. In part of the commissions the police are called upon to do, it is either because there is or is going on something as serious as violence, killing or in the worst case terror. Does the Council of State seriously believe that preparedness is better if, for example, the police force. have to move out to an island on Helgeland or in Lofoten with a los-helicopter or a boat from the municipality's archipelago service on that kind of mission? Is it not better that they have their own equipment and trained staff also for that type of assignment? So I wonder how many of the 20 boats that are in turn this summer, that are in North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1317	I may not think the representative heard what I said, because for the time being and again and for the fourth time this questioning repeats the Central Party that preparedness has become worse, that the budget is worse, and that the police coverage is worse. So that's not true. As I said in my reply to the representative, the number of annual works in Nordland, Troms and Finnmark has increased by 289. I don't think there are any state businesses that have had the same growth in the number of years that the police have had, including in Northern Ireland, Troms and Finnmark. The budget has been increased by 350 million. kr. So it's a budget winner we're talking about, and it's just about taking the police and getting ready in the whole country seriously. That is why this has been a priority for this government, and we have been busy building stronger police districts that are just going to benefit the inhabitants of the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1325	‘The food department at the hospital in Kristiansand is in poor condition. It affects the natives. Improvements have been planned for a long time. What is the reason for the failure of Sørlanden Hospital HF to give priority to improvements now, and will the Council of State urgently ensure that women who are born in Kristiansand receive a better offer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1332	Southern hospitals have maternity wards in Kristiansand, Arendal and Flekkefjord. The health company receives about 2 900 births per year. The food department at the hospital in Kristiansand, to which the representative Henriksen refers in his question, is clearly the largest and receives about 1,800 births a year. Health South-East states that the maternity ward in Kristiansand is located in premises that follow a normal maintenance plan at the hospital and that maintain normal standards for surfaces and equipment. The external roof of the women’s clinic has recently changed due to a leakage problem. Recent improvements to sewerage have also been made. Health South-East states that there are area limitations in the department. The area limitations make there not enough family rooms available, and therefore some women who are pregnant have to be in double rooms. Land limitations also reduce the possibilities of modern, family-oriented care. However, health South-East informs that the construction does not pose a risk to quality or patient safety. There is a need for rehabilitation in all three hospitals at the Sørlande hospital. A new building for mental health is now being built in Kristiansand, which will be ready in 2023. I am also aware that the board of Health South-East has recently dealt with an application from Sørlanden Hospital for the start of project planning for a new emergency and intensive building. It is Südlanden Hospital and Health South-East that have a responsibilities for the population of Agder, and that must first assess and prioritise the building challenges. I therefore believe that it is Health South-East and South-East hospitals that are the closest to making good decisions about the operation of their own business and any plans for future investments. Health regions may, as a follow-up, apply for government loans for large investment projects. In line with the Granavolden platform, the government has changed the loan terms. This will make it easier for health businesses to invest in new hospital buildings and in new technologies. The loan applications for this government have also been followed up and granted through the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1345	I want to take the opportunity to congratulate you on the day. Today is the International Nursing Day, and it may be good to remember each other. This is because both the birthing and the mothers who have just given birth and the newly-baked fathers are concerned about the situation. And so do many nurses and midwives. What they are most concerned about is that hospitals have been given more and more tasks and an economic framework that does not extend to the tasks they are given. It's about the hospitals in both Arendal, Flekkefjord and Kristiansand. Another who despairs is the Minister's party trap Espen Saga from Kristiansand. And he's not only desperate, but he's also disheartened. He is reckless because he has been visiting Höie many times and has asked for a reparation of the maternity ward. How bad must conditions be before the Minister listens to the voices coming on these challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1356	I listen to these voices, and the Sørlande Hospital has prioritised is initially the development of new building for mental health in Kristiansand. It's over in 2023. Then has a priority new emergency reception and intensive capacity. It is also a project it goes further in line with the governance decision in Health South-East. That's the project I've met most with local politicians in the area about. It is also true that if you believe that you have the opportunity to do something about the offer that the representative here is making, it is primarily the way in which the type of project has to go. The representative also knows how this is organized. It is not the case that ministers are taking the initiative to develop projects in the individual hospital. That initiative comes from below, from the employees, from the boards, from the population in the areas that have hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1363	Yeah, that's absolutely right, and that's where we agree. We just don't agree that the government is running a policy that makes it harder to listen to just the voices coming from below. For it, unlike the Workers' Party, has a financing model which makes it more difficult to make provision for investment. Espen Saga has said, "In retrospect, I don't understand how to cope with such relationships." The Labour Party has proposed to abandon intervention-driven financing of food supply and to develop a new funding model for women’s clinics, maternity wards and maternity wards, precisely based on the quality requirements for maternity care. This government spends money on private rather than public hospitals. The government says they're betting on female health, but in my experience, there's a lot of strategies, plans and investigations and less concrete action. Why not vote in favour of this concrete proposal by the Labour Party, which will secure women and families waiting for children throughout the country and lead to a predictable situation for them?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1372	No, it'll get our hospitals in the wrong direction. This government has implemented a number of major improvements to the framework conditions for hospitals in connection with investment. If the Labour Party's policy had been pursued in this area, it is a number of the major hospital investments that have now been carried out throughout Norway, either unimplemented or with significantly worse conditions for implementation. Some of the things that have really benefited from the development of new hospital buildings in Norway are the conditions of the right-wing government to make the necessary investments in construction and equipment in our hospitals. What the Labour Party is going to vote on is a recipe for increasing the patient's waiting time, because the Labour Party is now in favour of a policy that penalises hospitals financially for treating more patients. It is a policy the Labour Party itself left in the 1990s, and to which they now have a romantic relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1389	This question is from Emilie Enger Mehl to the Minister of Defence, but the President cannot see that the representative Emilie Enger Mehl is present, so we are moving on to the next question, where I see that both the questioner and the answer are present.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1397	As the President said, my question goes to the Minister of Research and Higher Education: ‘In connection with the treatment of the National Audit Office’s report on the right of students to training in and in Sami, it was noted that recruitment of Sami language teachers is a critical factor in the training. Will the Council of State facilitate the granting of exemptions from this requirement to current candidates who are prevented from applying for teacher training due to the requirement of grade 4 in math?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1406	I want to start by thanking the representative for the question. The government has high ambitions for Norwegian students, no matter where they live, and what background they have. The Knowledge School shall contribute to social cohesion and ensure Norwegian working life and well-being. Professionally strong and motivated teachers are the most important contribution for students to learn more at school. Which students are recruited for teacher training are of great importance for the quality of education and for getting students to complete and graduate as teachers. I share the concern about recruiting teachers in Sami language, but lowering the requirements for those who are going to be teachers of Sami students as native language is the same as lowering the ambitions of these students. The recording requirements for teacher training must be consistent. The combination has indicated that the same admission requirements must be set for Sami teacher training as for other teacher training courses. Norwegian Mathematics Council has over time documented that Norwegian teacher students have too poor knowledge of mathematics. All students in primary school teacher education, GLU for stages 1 to 7 and many of those taking GLU 5 to 10 have mathematics as their subject. They are given the competence to teach in the subject and responsibility for raising the next generation. It is the responsibility of the government to make demands on those who have this task. The four-digit requirement is moderate and does not apply to those who have mathematics as a programme subject. Highly competent teachers are better placed to lift students from their homes with a weak educational background. Here, the achievements in mathematics are particularly vulnerable. We need to continue the joint work on qualifying and recruiting strong applicants for teacher training, including for Sami students. The three educational institutions in North Norway are doing a thorough and systematic job of recruiting teachers and qualifying applicants for Sami teacher training. Each applicant receives close follow-up and offers of qualification courses, either locally or through the nationwide digital mathematics course funded by the government. A system is now to be set up for the completion of education and formalisation of those who have started a teacher training course but have not completed a scheme in accordance with a model from the universities of Northern Norway. The Ministry of Knowledge has put in place several arrangements for teachers who are samish in the trade union or take jobs in North Norway to be able to cancel their student loans. The schemes may be combined and a large part of the study loan may be subordinated. The composition has scholarship schemes to recruit Sami language students for studies where there is a lack of Sami language staff, such as language and teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1423	It was a long answer to the defense of the general position of the Council of State that everyone had to have 4 in mathematics. I didn't intend to raise that issue. We have discussed in the Control Committee a case from the National Audit Office which seems as if the Council of State may not have become aware of, pointing out that it is particularly vulnerable to the Sami languages. This applies to northern Sami, but of course it is especially lulesamic and southern Sami, where it is difficult to find, as the Council of State said, professionally strong and motivated candidates to become teachers. In this context, we have had consultations at both the Kautokeino and the Sameting, and it has been pointed out that it is difficult to get hold of teachers who have Sami as their mother tongues, especially in the two narrowest languages. We believe that we have a special responsibility for preserving those languages, and one possibility is that good candidates, but who may have only 3 in mathematics, can really contribute in a socially critical area. I ask, will the Council of State make an exception to contribute to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1432	I understand that the representative does not want to raise the debate on the character requirement 4 in mathematics in teacher training, but when the representative points to it as a solution to a problem we can agree on, the representative raises the debate on admission requirements for teacher training. We have also had contact with the Sameting about this, which is clear that they do not want other admission requirements or lower expectations for teachers who are going to teach in Sami, than for teachers who are going to teach students in other subjects. That's why I spend a lot of time in my answer explaining why this government is in favour of this recording requirement, although I understand that we can disagree on this. As I also mentioned in my answer, Sami University, just to solve this, has now identified what at least now appears to be 18 students who have started their teacher's education and have Sami, but who have not completed it, and who can now be offered quite quickly to complete their education. It can go pretty fast, and it's a way to quickly recruit teachers who have almost completed but who have not completed completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1441	I'm sorry to say that it seems like the Council of State has not taken over the national responsibility we have to take care of vulnerable language groups, because here it makes it a general goal that 4 in mathematics should be the rule of everything, sail where it's hard to recruit small language groups with a narrow recruitment background. I find it regrettable, because when the specialist council for teachers was here and was in the discussion about the Riksrevision report, she actually said that she would assess the experience with that requirement. Then I think it would be reasonable for the Grand Duchy and the Government to take joint responsibility to say – you know what, it is so important for this country to take care of the narrow language groups that it might be possible to renovate that requirement by specially qualified applicants for Sami teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1446	That's right – we have a national responsibility to take care of e.g. these subjects. That's why I also think it's very important to listen to the Sameting, which is saying that they don't want lower expectations for those who are going to teach children with a Sami background or who have a Sami language than other students. The second is that if we are actually going to recruit more teachers – I have mentioned several measures that are already in progress, in addition to the recruitment campaigns that we have unfortunately had to stop something now because of the Korona, but which is being started again for the autumn, and in addition to the measures we have to delete student loans for students who choose to work in North Norway – I will not agree that we are going to erode the expectations we have for the teacher training, based on different needs. The fact that we have a character requirement has led to more qualified applicants, more completes and consists, and more people come out at the other end as teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1454	This question, from the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik to the Minister for Climate and Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1459	‘In letter dated 22 April, the NHO, LO, Norsk Industrie, Industrie Energia and Joint Concerns about the impact of the EU carbon duty could have on jobs and value creation in Norwegian land-based industry. In particular, it is noted that the EU Commission has communicated that carbon duty can replace current free-quota and CO 2 compensation schemes for industry. It is also not signaled that this will be compensated. How are EU signals assessed and how does the government work towards the EU to safeguard the interests of Norwegian industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1469	The European Commission presented the European Green Deal on 11 December 2019. The Commission informed the Member States, inter alia: a Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism, commonly referred to as CBAM. The Commission shall present a concrete summer proposal, together with other key EU climate policy directives. Like Norway, the EU is leading an ambitious climate policy with extensive use of carbon pricing through the quota system. High carbon prices are isolated as a competitive disadvantage for European industry. Climate policy can therefore lead to industrial production, including emissions, moving from Europe to countries with lower climate ambitions. CBAM shall counteract such carbon leakage. CBAM shall price emissions from the production of goods imported into the EU, taking into account any carbon pricing in the producer countries. This will, in theory, contribute to the equal price of emissions from the production of goods for use in the EU, irrespective of where they are produced. CBAM will be able to improve the competitiveness of the European raw materials industry, but could further weaken the competitiveness of industry in the value chain. Third countries may regard the mechanism as a protectionist trade policy instrument. This could lead to counter-measures in trade policy. The Commission has notified that CBAM will replace existing anti-carbon schemes, such as free allowances in the EU ETS and CO 2 compensation scheme for power-intensive industries. This may be different for different parts of the industry. Before submitting a proposal for a CBAM Directive, the specific design of the mechanism will not be known. An alternative is an import charge or carbon duty. Another, and perhaps more likely, alternative, is an EU ETS-related allowance system. The government understands that the EU is assessing different instruments that can counteract carbon leakage from the EU ETS, and we are positive in exploring possible models for CBAM. Norway has extensive trade with the EU through a single internal market. The Government has as its starting point that CBAM must cover the entire internal market, with the necessary adjustments for the EFTA countries. It is also very important to design CBAM in line with WTO legislation. CBAM and existing arrangements for similar purposes, such as EU ETS and CO 2 free allowances, must be seen in a context. We understand the concerns expressed by NHO, LO, Norwegian Industry and others, and we are in dialogue with them. We have also been in contact with the Commission, at the latest at the cluster meeting on 1 March 2021. The Commission’s first Vice-President, Timmermans, said that the Commission was available for consultations on CBAM.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1494	I thank you for your answer. It's incredibly important what we're talking about here. It is about taking care of the basis of existing jobs and value creation in industry, and laying the groundwork for new industrial start-ups in Norway in the future, which we really need, with the record trade deficit from mainland Norway that Norway has. One of the important instruments we have today is the CO 2 compensation scheme, which remains uncertain for a number of companies. It is an ongoing work related to it, with a hearing that I record to provide a response to the harvest. What is dramatic about what the European Commission is proposing is that the CO 2 compensation scheme may have to be removed. The industry is just pointing out that a carbon duty would not be able to help industrial enterprises if the CO 2 compensation scheme were not maintained. Is the government's position that the CO 2 compensation scheme should be maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1517	Here, the representative, Gælsvik, jumps over very many steps. The starting point here is that the EU and Norway share common interests. We have a common interest in combating carbon leakage, and Norwegian and European industries are moving elsewhere, which have lower climate ambitions than we have. We understand that the European Union is exploring this. We have, as I have pointed out, been in contact with the Commission, and the Commission's representative, Timmermans, has expressed his wish for dialogue with Norway. We're going to give our input to them to take care of Norwegian interests. Of course, we are committed to taking care of Norwegian interests. Of course, we are committed to caring for Norwegian industry and jobs. This means that we will engage in dialogue with the EU to find out what this scheme might be like, and we are concerned that it must cover the entire internal market, so that Norwegian companies do not get into a worse position.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1526	It is particularly important that both Norway, the EU and other countries make efforts to prevent carbon leakage, in order to strengthen the basis for industrial production in Norway in the future. That's exactly why I asked about the concrete grips and positions from the Norwegian side. For a carbon duty, the carbon content of imported goods will be affected, while the CO 2 compensation scheme will compensate for an increased CO 2 cost of the hydropower used by the Norwegian industry. It is incredibly important for industrial companies around Norway, as in the letter I referred to – both NHO, LO, Norsk Industrie, Industrie Energia and the Joint Association – that they cannot see that a carbon duty will shield Norwegian energy-intensive industry against the costs of CO 2 in the Norwegian hydropower price. Therefore, it is incredibly important to maintain the CO 2 compensation scheme that has recently been passed on by 2030. Is there any Norwegian position in this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1545	The government is committed to finding solutions, not like the Center Party, just sitting on the sideline. I record that the NHO has a balanced approach to this, including: in an interesting chronicle in today's business a few days ago, where they just stress that this can in principle be interesting, but that it may be difficult to get it done. For the time being, we do not know what is in this, but precisely because the government has a good relationship with the EU, we are also in dialogue about it. We are specifically asked to make representations, and we intend to do so – on the basis that we are to take care of Norwegian industry and Norwegian jobs, and that we have a common interest in achieving the ambitious climate goals set by Norway and set by the EU. So here we have a common interest in finding good solutions, and it's natural that we see these different instruments in context and evaluate how we can manage both jobs in industry and a good climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1565	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1573	«The report «Coastal cod power roofs» has caused great concerns among professional fishermen on Hyler and in Ytre Oslofjord. How will the Council of State help to mitigate the conflicts and include and ensure that fishermen are cared for in the further process of a more living Oslofjord?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1580	I can assure the representative that I will continue to maintain a close dialogue with the industry and facilitate good processes so that research, management and industry can find sustainable solutions in the future. We have good experience of this in Norway and will continue to do so. Living areas of the southern coastal cod are close to the most populated parts of the Norwegian coast. As a responsible seamat, management must be knowledge-based. The Kraftkap project for the coastal cod has provided relevant knowledge of the conditions in the Oslo soil that are also relevant to other parts of the management. Some may give the impression that the challenge is in isolation related to radiation. That's not true. Just because there are several complex reasons for the decline in coastal cod stocks, a number of measures have been proposed in the report, both in terms of fisheries and on the climate and the environment. In order to find good solutions for the Oslo Earth, the debate must be nuanced. The spectre of challenges needs to be lifted, as the government is just doing in the overall action plan for the Oslo Earth. Environmental challenges affect wild marine resources. I am pleased that the government's action plan follows up measures to reduce the run-off from agriculture and emissions from municipal waste. An Oslofjord Council will also be set up to follow up the overall management of the Oslofjord. With regard to the challenge on the fishing side, researchers have been aware that recreational fishing in this populated area accounts for the largest coastal cod catch. Since recreational fishing is the biggest threat in terms of fishing off-takes, in 2019 we introduced a ban on cod fishing in Oslofjorden from Westfold and Telemark to the border with Sweden. We have protected the spawning grounds in the time when the coastal cod spawns, imposed a ban on concentrated yarns and introduced a ban on the sorting of shrimp trawls. Professional fishermen selling berths have been exempted from the ban on grounds relating to their operational base. I have had several meetings with the industry on this, on the current report and the challenging situation of the coastal cod. We're all committed to finding good solutions, especially the fishermen who live by this, and we're going to do that in close dialogue with the researchers, industry and administrators. In assessing the measures in 2022, we will base the best available knowledge and ensure that all relevant actors can contribute with their input through good, open and wide consultation processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1595	I thank the Minister for Fisheries for the answer. I am pleased with the signals that he is listening to the industry, because there is no doubt that the fishermen in the area have recently felt exposed. Many people also feel that the basis of life and a coastal culture are threatened. Fishermen depend on clean sea areas, intact fish stocks and intact ecosystems to harvest and create values of marine resources. Fishermen have also set up constructively and supported marine protection as a tool to achieve it. I fully agree with the Minister for Fisheries that the policy must be knowledge-based, but what fishermen point to is that they increasingly, especially in this area, feel that the knowledge base is not correct, and in particular that is the case for this report. The councils also pointed to the Oslofjord Council. The question is: How will the Council of State contribute to a knowledge base that is perceived to be more accurate by fishermen, and will the fishermen be given a place in the Oslofjord Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1602	As a government council, I can't go in and influence the free research, but I want to be very clear that I think it's a little broken that the professional fishermen and shrimp trawlers have actually been wrongfully blamed for this. It's a very simplification of the situation. It also comes out in the report and the knowledge base, so we're very conscious that if we're going to get good results, we have to start snooping at the right end. In this context, we might say that we should start beaming right after the results. I feel that after the presentation of the report, there has been a close and good dialogue with the Norwegian Fisheries Team and with the Marine Research Institute, so that we can now correct misunderstandings and that the fishermen feel that they have actually been blamed a little unfairly for what has happened. As I said, that is not correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1607	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think we quite agree here. In the paper on marine protection, the government proposes to establish one or more major marine protection areas in the North Sea, Skagerrak and Oslofjord. In doing so, the Government will establish a pilot project related to one or more of the National Parks of Skagerrak and Oslofjorden. The pilot proposed shall reduce or eliminate local impact factors in order to restore ecosystems and fish stocks. The marine research institute has stated that the impact factors in the Oslo soil are warmer seawater, sediments from run-off, algal blooms, ecosystem shifts, food shortages and fisheries. However, with the exception of fishing, these factors are not mentioned, in particular local. Does the Council of State mean that Oslofjorden and Skagerrak are the right area for a pilot, as suggested?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1614	Actually, I don't have very strong opinions about that, but I think it's very important on a general basis that we generate knowledge. We have e.g. establish similar types of surveillance stations in the Western Baltic Sea with Coastwatch, new research ships are being built, and new drones are being built that will also generate knowledge. Just where this is to be established, I don't want to have any very strong formation about anything but that I think it's a success factor for Norwegian fishing industry that both the authorities and the industry themselves agree very much that sustainability must be at the bottom. There we've had some hard lessons. On 18 April 1989, all fishing was stopped overnight because too much fishing had been done for years without a good enough knowledge base. I feel that that's what makes us make this an forever renewable industry. Then it must sometimes be that we get a stop or a reduction in the withdrawal of fish, as has happened in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1619	The ordinary Questionnaire has changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-12.ana.ud94e1633	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
