ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e28	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The called alternate for Telemark, Olav Urbø, is now taking the seat. The representative of Une Bastholm will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e40	I don't get to lower the pulpit, I see. But I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative on climate change adaptation and enhanced flood and step-by-step prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e45	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e50	I am delighted to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Nicholas Wilkinson, Lars Haltbrecken, Karin Andersen and myself to create a plan for the safe reopening of cultural life when the infection situation opens up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e55	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e71	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure, which will take place on the two interlocutors down there, which may be adjusted up and down. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e78	We are experiencing today the highest unemployment Norway has had in several decades. We're about to pass 200,000 completely or partially available. It may be 500 a day that is now in this queue. What is particularly alarming is that those who dominate, on the basis of these figures, are young people under the age of 30 – about 50 000, every four. In Troms and Finnmark, our northern part, it's about every three. The concern that should then occupy us is that we can face the danger of a lost corona generation. Those who organize the students talk about that it can take years for those who are now newly educated, to get into the labour market, get into the regular life, finance their own lives further. So we have to raise our eyes and see what we can do on the other side of the coronary crisis, which we hope we get out of. We have to act now, take measures that people don't stay outside permanently. In my opinion, the government has been behind with its actions. The size has corrected in a number of areas, by being more accurate, more fair. The measures shall last for the duration of the crisis. Yesterday we proposed that there should be measures for wage subsidies. The Prime Minister says she's insecure because of technical things and side effects. It's too little action. Now the number of job vacancies has doubled in one year, from 100,000 to 200,000, but studying the actions Nav has for people under 30, the young, are about the same at the end of 2020 as they were at the end of 2019. The Prime Minister did not use the word ‘dugnad’, she used the word ‘power take-off’. Why is it not a force now to ensure that young people can get out of the job queue, get into work? Why so passive?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e85	It may not surprise anyone that I deeply disagree with the representative Gahr Støre in the description of reality when it comes to the government's handling of this, simply because the fact that we are not going to have a permanent big outsidership has been very much in front of the government's work throughout this pandemic. That's why we said very early that we divided the work into three stages. One phase was to ensure that we managed health and health expenditure in the public sector, ensuring businesses, ensuring opportunities to keep the activity going. We continued to compensate in the second phase, but in the third phase it was about that from the end of April / the beginning of May we should focus on the way out of the coronary crisis, how this hit people. That is why we have a major project called the Education promise of 2020, which means that we have opened the way for those on leave to take education, that those on daily pay can take education. We have also continued it after this pandemic might be over, by creating a new regulatory framework that will enable it to continue in the future. We have increased the number of places of study in vocational training, and we have a number of other measures. Because we see some groups that are going to be the most vulnerable in this. Very many of those who have gone out of work and are now on leave have an average lower education. They haven't graduated from high school. They therefore need to fill and have skills for the future labour market. In that time, the representative Gahr Støre and I were young – it might be relatively what we define as the time – was about. 70 pst. of the jobs you could enter as unskilled. Today it is approx. 10 pst. That means education is important. In addition, we have increased the number of action places. I said in my statement on Monday that we are now looking at new measures, not least for those who have been long-term unemployed, to follow them even more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e94	The description of the contrast with Erna Solbergs and my youth I can really join, but that's not the case. The matter is here and now. The issue is all those who are now outside, who are outside, the dominance of the young people among those who are unemployed, and that it is done too little concretely. We now have the opportunity to look beyond this crisis. If it is true that we can vaccinate the whole population by the summer, that the wheels are going to start, the measures must now be accurate to young people. My question is, why is Nav not equipped with greater leverage to meet this increased number, to meet that in Troms and Finnmark is one of three of those who volunteer, under 30 years? In the country, it could be about one in four. Too few measures are being put in place. Yesterday, a number of points were adopted in the Storting to correct some of the situation, with activity, with measures, with support for businesses and with keeping them going. But I call for a clearer response, a clearer ambition and concrete action from the Prime Minister on this. Then we can agree on the analyses, that it is serious, but it is the measures that count.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e99	Just before Christmas, Stortinget adopted a very expansive state budget in a cooperation between the government parties and the Progress Party. There are 7 000 more areas of action, with a clear prioritisation of the long-term unemployed and young people to ensure that they are given knowledge and competence, but also that they are given measures to help. That money is now being rolled out. It is now the beginning of the 2021 state budget, with a significantly higher effort being made to do this. In addition, I said in my statement on Monday that the government is working both with new measures for those who are long-term unemployed and with measures for children and young people. Unlike the measures adopted on Tuesday, we have said that on the 29th Proposition, we come up with measures that the opposition had not included in its list of measures, precisely targeting this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e106	There will be follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e111	I think the Prime Minister can be sure that we are going to meet that proposition offensively. 7,000 intervention sites are good, but compared to the number of young people who are unemployed, I believe this is deficient. What contributes to work? We have had the discussion on that topic, which I believe is about justice and propriety. Those who went off through 2020 – who were permitted because politics has shut down parts of society because it was necessary – can now find out that if they get a job for the first half of this year, 2021, and we hope they won't get holiday money that they've earned when summer comes. I called, and we had it up in the hall yesterday: what is the real reason why people were deprived of that right in 2015? The figures were lower in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. Now we see that 200,000 experience this situation – they feel that unlike us who have been lucky enough to have a job and have not been shut down, they do not get these holiday money. In 2015, it was said that the reason for removing that right was that it was little targeted at stimulating work. Does the Prime Minister think losing the right to earn holiday money stimulates people to get into work?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e118	I would like to point out that the theme that is now being addressed is not necessarily what is aimed at getting children and young people and newly educated people into work. On the contrary, it illustrates the reason why we said in 2015 that we should make changes to this. We thought it was most important to give priority to those who were unemployed, and get them back to work, that we had to make some changes in our welfare systems about how we had income protection, in order to have enough room to be able to spend the most on those who need the most help. That's why we've stuck to this. It is interesting to see that although the Workers' Party was against it in 2015, they did not add a penny to the budgets for 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 to reverse that reform. It also shows a lot of other issues. The Labour Party is taking up the debate. They don't have money in their alternative state budgets, but they're high and dark in the debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e123	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e128	I am tall – and increasingly grayer! And I get more gray hair in my head by listening to the Prime Minister's argument, because every year we can't fix all these cuts this Prime Minister is implementing in his government, whether it's glasses support and treatment for fire damage, or what it might be. We need a new majority for a new government to do that. When the corona set in and hundreds of thousands came into a situation where they were licensed, we said, it's about justice and propriety. Then we found three billion. kr and prioritized that they should have the right to take their children on vacation and have the money for it, and we did not, for many reasons, cut the wealth tax of those who have the most. It's about justice and propriety. We're correcting it. The question is, does the Prime Minister still think that the cook Robin in Bergen, who is applying for jobs and not getting them, is more encouraged to apply for the jobs when he does not receive holiday money for the time he is leaving? Does she think so?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e138	No, the Prime Minister makes some choices. And our choice is actually to set up for the young people with more measures and for the long-term unemployed with help. It was well documented in the NRK's debate yesterday that the arrangements of the majority on the Grand Duchy – Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left – have been in place, contribute to better arrangements for those who are on leave or on daily allowances, so when you get more when you have a holiday than the model of the Workers' Party would give. Then we make some choices, and those choices we're going to get more and more of when we're back from the time we can now stimulate the economy very much. The choices we need to make will be more and more in order to make room for the most important measures, which are to ensure that more people who have been out of work for a long time, provide good skills, knowledge and targeted actions. It is more important than that those who are temporarily outside and return to work get holiday money.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e145	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e150	The Prime Minister's scheme for the long-term unemployed in the summer: 50 000 will be able to benefit from it. It is good that they can get that holiday money when they are longtime unemployed. But if you've been available for 51 weeks and a few days and you get a job in the spring, you lose everything with the prime minister's arrangements. It's over 200,000. And those who are long-term unemployed and get holiday pay in the summer of 2021, and move on as long-term unemployed, don't make up for anything until the summer of 2022. That's when they meet in year two. It's a worse and less accurate system. I repeat: it is unfair and not accurate for those over 200,000 people who have gone on leave. And if they get to work in 2021 – and we hope they do – they'll feel that when summer comes, they can't take their family on vacation, the economy is going to be hit. It is – again – unfair at a time when the stock exchange is going well, those who have a job are doing well, and those who have had a home office have been doing well. Those who've been hit get even heavier. I think it's unfair and unfair.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e155	I note that the Labour Party admits that for 50 000 people the system we have today is better than the Labour Party system. I think that's a nice confession, because sometimes you give the impression that we've taken away vacation money for people who're on leave and out of work. No, we have introduced vacations and payments under it for people who are long-term unemployed, in a different way than before, but not so that you earn holiday money from the time you are outsourced. I understand that it is unreasonable now, according to the Labour Party’s argument, but it was therefore reasonable in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 in their alternative budgets. It's also an interesting observation that this wasn't a priority. I am in favour of the priority we are making, that we give priority to those who are farthest outside and return to work, with targeted measures and ensure that we help them more in the future. We have to make some choices as politicians about where we correct the money we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e162	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e167	Yesterday was a very important day for very many, because what we did in Stortinget will help ensure many young people and people in general their everyday lives. This will ensure the survival of many farms. What happened yesterday was that Stortinget did the job that the government has failed to do for a very long time. In Troms and Finnmark, one in three of those out of work is under 30 years of age. It's serious. And what branches do they come from? It's travel, it's serving, it's transport and logistics – important industries. Yesterday we could also read in the VG that there were several of the measures that the Prime Minister was uncertain about being implemented: wage subsidies or the valve system, which are very important. My question to the Prime Minister is: does the Prime Minister think that the decisions taken in the Stortinget are indicative of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e176	No, but decisions taken without prior investigation and treatment are also the duty of the government – and I stress it: obligation – to disclose that there may be challenges related to the implementation of it. Some of the decisions taken yesterday will require us, for example: has an ESA approval. Some of them will be technically demanding to implement, and we will return to Stortinget. But it is also my duty to inform the Storting that the decisions they take can cause difficulties. It would have been an omission for a government not to make the Storting aware of it. When you have a procedure where you do things right over the table, you have to expect it. In the case of the outsiders, this is the main priority of the government. That's why we have a great educational promise. That's why we work with industry programs. That is why we are working on targeting efforts, as is also stated in the State budget on several action areas. It also states that it is targeted and clear that it is about young people to ensure that there is no lost generation of this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e183	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e188	One of the challenges in recent months has been government satisfaction with itself and everything you've got. The problem is that there are too many things that have not been done. That shows the numbers. For example, when it comes to the unemployed, they increase month by month, even for those who are young. Yesterday we decided, as I said, important things. The Prime Minister has also been able to say that those who are unemployed can only find another job. I can guarantee the Prime Minister that it has provoked a lot of people. It's made many incredibly frustrated, because they know they're at home, they need a lot, they want and want to get back to work, but that's not possible. When you're a receptorist in Tromsø, you know that travel life will come back. You will need the skills you have, the professional skills you have, but there are no other hotels you can apply for. I don't know where to go to get a job at a hotel a day. So my question is, does the Prime Minister mean that there won't be any need for these people? Should the receptionists, e.g. in Tromsø, find yourself anything else to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e197	I really think that representatives of bigots should make a certain demand for the truth in what they quote others. I've never said what the representative is saying. What I have said – and I think that is right – is that it is important that you take both continuing training, and that you look for a new job and not get stuck in the permit. I've never said that you can only find another job. It is a deterioration in the political debate. When it comes to finding a new job, we know it's hard. This is difficult because many unemployed people have lower skills than the average in their working life. This means that we have to work with good continuing training schemes and good arrangements during the period of leave. That's what the government has put in place. So it's like the holiday went down a little bit in December. It has fallen in the autumn, up again in November and up a little now in January, because we have stricter measures. But our goal is always to get the time off as low as possible and qualify people on the way to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e206	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e212	Many of those who want to work in the labour market in the future are those with low or no education, and many of them are found in the food industry. That's why Stortinget made a wise decision yesterday related to the prohibition, simply because it can help save jobs. But then we heard the Minister of Health commenting on this during the afternoon and the evening yesterday. He said that the Storting had now made a priority in terms of reopening. However, the government itself announced in the context of new measures that they would return to an assessment of the prohibition of the offer as early as the next week. Does what the Minister of Health said yesterday, that the government had decided in advance? Or does the Minister of Health speak falsely when he presents it this way and says that the Storting has now made priorities in some queue that the government obviously has? Does the Prime Minister think that the Minister of Health handled this in an adult way yesterday?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e219	I have great faith in the health minister's handling of these issues. It is absolutely right that the government received two conflicting recommendations from our health professionals. We received a recommendation from the Swedish Institute of Public Health to open something by going back to the fact that the municipalities could make an assessment within a framework of not being open beyond noon. 22nd@item: inlistbox The second advice we received, from the Health Directorate, was that we should not open until 14 days, because we were in a very unstable situation. The government then said we won't open up now, because now we followed the priorities we've set, and we've seen that there's been great and positive feedback that we've had, namely that we've prioritised children and young people. After we had prioritised health, it was the most important thing. So we know that this has consequences for jobs, and that it's demanding, but we thought we should evaluate this next week. If we were to get to yes or no, we would depend on infection rates and not least how we saw the development of mutated viruses, because that's what's potentially explosive today, that we don't know how it's going to develop.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e224	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e229	200,000 unemployed – this is serious. I belong to a prime minister who is primarily very pleased with himself and the efforts of the government in this regard. I mean, one can never be satisfied when 200,000 are available. Yesterday, Stortinget made a number of important decisions to stop the activity and to give more security to businesses and people. It wasn't the Prime Minister's obvious satisfaction with and expressed it. It has been a pleasure to get the response afterwards – people out there are very happy with what has been done. My question is, how quickly will the decisions that were taken yesterday be implemented, and will they affect the proposition of crisis measures to be submitted on 29 January?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e238	The government is never 100 pst. Satisfied. There's nothing in my genetic material that suggests that I'm ever going to be 100 pst. Satisfied, neither with government nor with the development of society, before I see a society that manages that many people are outside, that there is low unemployment, and that we can do it. That's why we're most concerned about what we're going to be able to do in the future. It is a challenge to strike a balance between increasing activity and simultaneously having infection protection work to lower activity and reduce meeting places for people. This is the basic strain we have on handling the virus: the virus is handled by meeting as little as possible. Then it's a challenge to give gas and at the same time manage the virus. We are going to make assessments of all these matters and will of course report back to Stortinget. Some of the cases are very simple, and it had not been necessary to send them via Stortinget. That was also the opinion of the government parties. Changing a date in a proposition, from 1 July to 1 October, does not require a government inquiry. The Storting can do that. We will come back to the other matters, and we will show you pro and counter and provide a basis for the Storting to take decisions in the individual cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e247	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e252	The funding model for the construction of new hospitals is an increasing problem. To give an example, the construction of a new, large hospital in Oslo requires 2.1 billion. kr in operating savings before a new building can be realised at all. Then you can ask why you haven't come up with that idea before, if it's so easy to save 2.1 billion. kr on operation. It's necessarily the way it's going to go beyond patient treatment. And it goes beyond the possibility of hospital building in the rest of this huge health region. It's Inland, Southland, Viken, Oslo, Westfold and Telemark. We saw, for example, that the hospital at Kalnes was reduced due to lack of money. So I think that's all possible reason to be concerned. How are we going to be able to build according to actual needs for the future? We know from experience with previous construction projects that they are being scaled down along the way, and that one likes to get into a situation with Corridor Asians from day one in new hospitals. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does she agree that it is now time for a new financing model, where investment and operations are separated?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e261	It has never been built as many hospitals as it is at the moment. In the north, almost all hospitals have received either new constructions or additions in recent years, or other plans have been made for this. It's a lot of activity, and as the former finance minister may know, this is one of the great peaks we have. We have gone from approx. 2 billion. kr in the loan scheme for a significantly higher loan scheme for hospitals by the State and into the budget. This means that today's hospital funding model actually works to build new hospitals. It works by making a priority. There are also good models to keep costs around building hospitals under control. Unlike some other state buildings, the model around Hospital Building has given better cost control because those who are users are sitting tight and taking the bill for it. There's some of it that I've experienced throughout my reign that we've been looking for good models for and discussed how we can get in other ways. That means I'm not prepared to throw away the funding model we have, today, because I think it currently gives us more hospital buildings, better investments and better control. But I'm always open to looking at new models. One of the first things we did was to increase the government's loan share, so that you could extend the costs to the hospitals by the fact that the proportion at the beginning was smaller. It's possible to look at other models. But some of the core models where operations and investment are seen together are some of the things that give us better cost control, and that actually also contribute to the solidarity of an enterprise in order to get more construction. So exactly this period I would say is a period when we see a formidable growth in new health buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e272	But it is also true that building a large hospital in a part of a large health region can be at the expense of the needs of other parts of the health region. Many people are concerned about this funding model and see that there is a need to find new ways to do it. Let me do another example. Sjukehuset Nordmøre and Romsdal have a price tag of 4-5 billion. kr and is financed by 70 pst. government loans and 30 pst. equity. Skanska won the tender, but now the health care company will cancel the entire contract. 600 million. kr has been used for planning purposes, but it is now cancelled for the second time. Even before planning for this hospital, Health Møre and Romesdal were in deficit. How will they be able to equip themselves to take that investment without harming patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e279	Firstly, I would like to stress that for the government it is important that the project for a new hospital for North Moravia and Romesdal be completed. The project implementation and the financial framework must be clarified between Health Møre and Romesdal and Health Mid-Norway. This means that the whole health business must agree on how to make a financing, just as it has agreed on other constructions in the past in the enterprise. Now there are meetings going on to figure out how to solve this in the future. The present board case shows that costs are expected to be higher than those so far foreseen. The plans have been worked out, and users and employees have been involved in doing so. Rejecting a funding model and the company model for hospitals in investing in new hospitals, because you have a challenge one place, I think it's wrong. But we're following this closely, and we're concerned that the new hospital should be realized, because it's incredibly important. It is also linked to the importance of ensuring that those living in this region receive a well-qualified offer in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e286	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e292	However, the uncertainty that has now arisen around this new hospital in Nordmøre probably also means uncertainty about a possible completion. The size has at some point decided that the maternity ward in Kristiansund will be in place until the maternity ward of a new health hospital is in operation. In view of the current bidding war between Skanska and Health More and Romesdal, and the uncertainty that is now being created, it has been decided to close this food department, despite the decision of the Stortinge. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e297	It is not because of the discussion between the health business and Skanska that changes have been made to the supply of food. What the health company itself says is that they don't get enough qualified personnel to operate the Kristiansund department. We can't overdo that. It's a clear signal – you say you don't get enough gynecologists. In order to have a maternity ward, we need to have high quality, we need to make sure that the quality is there. The government will work to ensure that we have a good food supply both in Kristiansund and in Molde, but it is the medical responsibility and management of the hospital that are responsible for ensuring that the quality of the offer is good enough. If they say they don't get enough qualified doctors to operate that offer, it's also their responsibility to make changes. I believe that we cannot politicize, that consideration is given to those who are born, that they have qualified help.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e302	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e307	I believe that this word change shows the need to think anew in the way we finance and organize our entire hospital operations. We also, as I said, over a long period of time have seen that this way of financing hospital construction goes beyond patients. They cannot be implemented in line with the plans they have laid down, nor can they be built in line with the needs they see in relation to demography and other types of development. We need to ensure that we have patient safety across the country, and when we have this way of organising it, with major health regions, it shows that we not only need a new funding model – we need to actually also wind regional health businesses. For the situation is now that the Inland is dependent on Oslo, Westfold is dependent on Southland, and More and Romesdal are dependent on Trøndelag. We can't keep on doing that if we're to make sure it's built in line with needs across the country, to ensure the safety of our patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e314	The hospital reform was implemented in 2000 and 2001 by establishing a national joint responsibility for equivalent healthcare across the country. Then the state took responsibility. It was supported by the Advance Party and the Right when the Workers Party government promoted it, and it is important to hold on to it. What happens in the hospital sector is that we get a significantly greater degree of specialisation in some areas and a greater degree of things that can be decentralized, that relate to major public diseases, that are less specialised, that many should have available. There must be a division of labour among the specialised schemes. The current management model for hospitals and the business model contributes to it. We've been looking at questions about alternatives to the business model. We believe that it would create a lot of noise, a lot of anxiety and less treatment for patients to make changes in the business model, even though we might not have chosen this model if we had started with blank sheets.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e323	It is quite right that the Progress Party supported the state acquisition of hospitals, but we have also always believed that the model of regional health companies is wrong because in this way they do not dimension and plan for needs across the country, but make different parts of the country dependent on each other in terms of their ability to finance the construction. As long as one has a financing model where one has to save on operations in order to obtain funds for construction, it necessarily means that important projects have to be put on hold in one part of a health region in order to finance a construction project in another part of the health region. That is why I believe that we need a renewed discussion, both about the funding model and the way we organise our entire hospital structure, if we are to be able to ensure that we get a full health offer across the country. I noticed that the Prime Minister initially said he was willing to discuss it, but I may think that a little more systematic work needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e332	The model we have today, we got because the Advance Party gave the Workers' Party a blank vote in a secondary vote. When I met to negotiate with the Labour Party, and I did so together with Annelise Höegh and representatives of the Progress Party, the first Progress Party said in that negotiating meeting that they could guarantee that they would support it subsidiaryly. Then the Workers' Party replied: But then we agreed on this and have no reason to negotiate. That's the story behind it all. So a little bit of responsibility for the model we have, probably the Progress Party has to take care of itself if this is 20 years ago. So I agree that we can imagine looking at other models around some investments in the future, but the main part of the way we're financing today has helped us build more new hospitals, that we have better cost control, and that we don't make changes that will make us less cost control – so that we don't build the hospitals we need, and get a lower proportion of hospitals. And if you have a different model, you're going to have to take down another activity in the state budget to accommodate any hospital buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e339	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e344	One of the things that will remain after today's government is an enormous willingness to outrun community. We've seen it over and over again. We had the regional reform, the so-called democratic reform, which ended up under force for Finnmark and Troms. 87 pst. the population said no to aggregation. The government thought they knew better, and forced it through. We saw it with the so-called near-police reform. Local communities said that there was too long distances here. The government, with the Right and the Advance Party, chose not to listen and overrun. Furthermore, it was the courts and the district court centralization that we saw before Christmas. Local communities said clearly, but the government chose not to listen and overrun. So to the reform of higher education: it was a structural and centralisation reform, which just forced things through. There has been a line from the government that the government has always perceived that they know better than those who are actually affected by the policy. Now we have seen a new line – that Stortinget is not being listened to when Stortinget makes clear decisions. We've seen two examples this past week. One applies to wolves. There was a big debate in the Stortinget where the Stortinget did not follow the government's proposal on higher stockpiles and put it down. The government doesn't follow it up. We've seen it in this round of maternity ward in Kristiansund. The reason for the clear decision was that there had been concerns about the offer of time. It was seen that the government did nothing to ensure peace and security for the food department. The government then took a decision of its own on 14 May to create security and tranquillity, but then the government has not done anything to create security and tranquillity after 14 May 2020. Now we see that what we feared last May is happening, that the maternity ward in Kristiansund is being laid down. The government has not contributed to providing security around the important supply of Northern Ireland. Will the Prime Minister now intervene, help, so that there will be a fair and good offer for the natives also in North Moravia?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e361	I understand that it's the Central Party's attempt to tell the story of this government. But I can tell an alternative story, for example. The story that in all complaints we have dropped six out of seven cases compared to local decisions, while there were three to four in relation to local decisions under the red-green government, when the Senterparteen was in government. We've taken more into account local democracy in a number of issues, we've decentralised more authority, but we've also taken responsibility for what the state is responsible for, and it's making sure to organise the Norwegian society so that we get the best possible services for people, and we've promised decisions related to it. If we just take the police reform, for example, I refer to the article from Arne Johannessen, who has been under pressure in the nation, where he says that 2020 was “best ever”, that it is the greatest effort they have ever seen, and that he asks politicians to take this with him and stop talking down the police reform. In fact, there are nine new police posts in 2020, 19 new police cars, six new, modern police houses, expansion of the active police service, in particular in Sunnfjord and Sogndal, better systematic prevention based on knowledge and intelligence, decline in past cases over six and twelve months and improvement in the outcome of priority areas such as rape, violence in close relations, youth cases and gross violence. Maybe we'll listen to those who wear their shoes, those who work on these things, when they actually ask politicians to stop talking down both the police reform and its results. In the case of the Food Department, the situation is that the Minister of Health has followed up the decision of the Storting and informed that there should be two food departments and that it should last until we have a new hospital. But it's going to be a problem if the food supply we were to have in Kristiansund doesn't have the personnel needed. If you are unable to recruit personnel, this goes under local management responsibility for having a good enough quality offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e372	I notice that the Prime Minister has no desire to talk about the food supply in Kristiansund, that it is now being built up, and spends one minute and 40 seconds talking about everything else – because the government has done little or hardly any thing to create security and tranquillity, help to get a good deal, and follow up the Storting decision. That's exactly why the Storting intervened. One thought that the government did too little, and then you've come into the situation we're in now. It's a political responsibility. Another example is predatory policy, where the right wanted a higher population. It was overtested by Stortinget, among others. by the right’s own representative Gunnar Gundersen opposed Prime Minister Erna Solberg – very wise! Yesterday there were large markings around Norway, and there Anders Kjær, head of state in the Right, says that those who bear the burden are not being listened to, rather the Stortinget. I saw that representative Elin Agdestein liked the post. My question to Prime Minister Erna Solberg is: why does a clear decision by the Storting not follow up in predatory policy? And: Does Solberg think that Anders Kjær’s consideration is a good consideration?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e380	There is no doubt that the local population has a challenge in predatory policies, because there is a greater burden on predators. There's something we also know about the establishment of the wolf zone, that there's going to be a greater burden for those who live in a zone where we've said that here we're going to take care of and manage what's our national responsibility for the largest predator, the wolf. But that doesn't mean we don't follow the decision of the Storting. We provide compensation measures in the areas that are most heavily burdened, precisely because they take a larger piece, and we follow up through both laws, rules and other. Now we're in a difficult legal situation. We have a judgment saying that the decisions taken in the previous round were not well enough justified. We're trying to keep as much of what we've been given. We handle and manage the wolf population, but we do not take out all the animals, because we also believe that what we do must be in line with Norwegian law, but I believe that we are within the area for which Stortinget has laid the framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e387	There will be follow-up questions – first Tryful Battle Violence Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e392	Right-wing leader Anders Kjær said yesterday that those who carry the load will not be listened to, nor in Stortinget. And that's what we notice in the response of Prime Minister Erna Solberg, once again, that she is deeply satisfied with how predatory policies are actually implemented. Erna Solberg suggested to the government that we have a population of six to eight young people. The size went in and said no, it's too high, we want four to six. However, when the decisions are to be followed up, when decisions are taken by the local pollinator, appointed by elected representatives of the people, they are made by the decision of the Grand Duchy. They want a lower level of conflict, they want to help people living in the zone, while the government is reviewing that decision. Now, eight years have passed with the Right Robbery Policy and the level of conflict that has been, so my closing question, if we don't need another one, is: Is the Prime Minister satisfied with predatory policy, or will she start listening to their local people, such as. Anders Kjær, who is the head of the state in Trøndelag, or will she just run the same rough course, with all the conflict it creates?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e401	I think – and I think everyone in Norway thinks – that predatory policies are demanding and difficult. We have international responsibility, we have a Berne Convention to follow up, and in Norway we have legislation that sets the framework and connects us to the Berne Convention. It has been decided by the Storting. At the same time, we have goals. On some of them, we're above the stock targets, and that's why we manage the different predatory areas. One of our most difficult issues is the current bear, where we haven't reached the stock target, but where we still have to work to ensure that the load in areas doesn't get too high because of the bear. But it's a long way to go until we reach what's the Big One's goal for bear. So we've made a decision in the government in the complaint handling that the Ministry of Climate and Environment is responsible for following up, where we take out two of the covers for wolves. To do that, we believe that we are within the framework of the Bill of the Storting and the Constitution of the Storting, and in line with what has been the leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e408	Ole André Myhrvold – to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e413	Without being notified or heard by communities or other interested interests, the so-called Deisjö wolves were transported from Østerdalen to Østfold on 3 January. In retrospect, the activity and secrecy associated with the wolves have been high by the state. Measures, information, dialogue and so-called conflict mitigation have been absent. We just heard the Prime Minister talk about compensating people in the areas of wolves. We have not heard anything about this in Eastfold. Of course, people with grazing animals in the areas are concerned about the upcoming season. It all worked out this weekend when there was a call from the State's nature agency to walkers and other people who use the field, to avoid the areas where the wolf is. Does the Prime Minister think that the process of deployment in Eastfold has been good? And is it now the government's line that the consideration of wolves weighs more than the consideration of people, grazing, other forms of land use and all-man rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e420	We have a consensus in Stortinget that we should have wolf in Norway. The consensus lies in the predator deal we have. We've also been clear that we're also going to have what are genetically valuable wolves, and that's what's happening with the Deishe virus -- it's a genetically valuable wolf. So it's just to bring in the wolf with a little bit of other genes, so we don't get inbrd and worse genetic material in our wolves. That's the administration we're going to have to have in the future. Now I feel that the climate and environment minister had a clear feedback from Stortinget that it was okay with the move of the Deisjørviret, that it was going to be moved. You can always discuss whether the process has been good enough to move it to. But my experience with these things is that it would be very difficult to get someone to offer a little asylum for a wolf couple within the wolf zone. So it probably wouldn't be that easy to find a solution. But it was important to get it done, so that we could prevent it where there was the most strain: in the areas around the Deisjö.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e427	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e432	Of course, last year's decision on the food department in Kristiansund had defensive operations as an envoy, and this is the government's responsibility to follow up. No mean the managing director of Health More and Romesdal that the operation is too risky, and will therefore close the maternity ward from 8 February and out of the year. The closure will lead to the birth of women on Smøla now having three hours of travel, and it is as if one in Oslo had to travel to Arendal to give birth. The exacting situation of Kristiansund hospitals must be known to the government. The risk of recruitment failure was clearly described in the ROS analysis in 2014, but the government has allowed the recruitment failure to develop and has only now asked for an evaluation from the health care provider of what has been done. The question is whether the government will now follow up the decision of the Storting and ensure that the enterprise obtains the necessary financial and professional resources to provide a defensive food supply, so that the food departments both in Molde and Kristiansund are continued with daily operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e439	Firstly, it is important to say that we have followed up the decision of Stortinget by the fact that this was clearly confirmed to the health company at the enterprise meeting on 10 June last year. At the same time, it is of course necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the service provision. We cannot have food services without personnel with the qualifications needed to provide food. It would give uncertainty around it. Health Møre and Romesdal have decided that for a temporary period they have to collect the food supply in North Moravia and Romesdal at the hospital in Molde. This is because, over a long period of time, there have been challenges in recruiting sufficient professional skills and ensuring an adequate range of services. I believe it is important to say that this is a temporary change. Of course, we will follow up on it and work on them getting a robust crew. But in the choice between the birther getting an offer close, but where there are not enough qualifications, or an offer a little longer away, but where there are proper qualifications, we must, for the sake of children and mother, choose the best qualifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e444	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e450	The common denominator for this is people who feel overwhelmed, people who feel that they are not being listened to, people who want to be a government who clearly say that they are standing by the decisions that have been made, and that they are doing something to realize the decisions that Stortinget has made. Instead, we have a prime minister who starts talking about bears when we ask about wolves, and we have a prime minister who talks about genetically important wolves, but then the question is, what does one do with the inbred wolf? Will it be taken out? What we are asking about predatory game policy is simply: is the government standing by the stock target adopted by the Stortinget, at four to six young people? Or does the government really believe that the Storting that made the wrong decision and that one cannot stand by it? And if you're standing at four to six young people, what should a do to get down to that goal? Because today we are high above.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e457	The government stands by the decision of four to six young people. The government has worked a lot to ensure that we can implement that decision in a way that also complies with the requirements of the law and with the obligations we have internationally. That's one of the reasons why when we saw that we had challenges with reasons for the withdrawals, because they weren't well-founded in relation to the law, we also directed more resources back to the Secretariats of predators, to ensure that you map, justify and provide the basis that allows us through the courts to also show the burden like that. is linked in a community to the fact that it is wolf, linked to the actual wolf virus, which the law requires us to do. These are among the measures we have taken to strengthen the ability to achieve our goal. We're in a situation where we've now had a verdict against us, where because of the lack of justification in the work done locally, one has got a verdict, and we have to make sure that we get it in place too.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e462	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e467	We need a climate plan for the 2020s, one that can ensure that we can both cut, build and share: cut emissions enough to achieve our climate targets, build jobs and green industry, and share goods and burdens related to the green shift. Norway shall be a zero-emission, industrial and welfare society on the other side of the green shift. It was such a plan that we hoped the government would come along when it made its climate announcement, that it would be the government's plan to achieve the climate goals, which would mean that one would come with a 50-55-pst emission plan, in line with Norway's Paris commitments. But this message does not contain it. It does not have enough measures to reach the target. At best, this is a message that can send us about halfway. The Minister for Climate and Environment has confirmed that the measures contained in this Communication are limited to about 10 %. 4 million tonnes of CO 2 in addition to what is already on the way. This means emission cuts of less than 30 p.p., because industry and the oil sector are excluded, and because there is a large amount of notice of investigation rather than notification of action. The message says ‘assess’ 18 times, it says ‘explained’ 14 times, and it says ‘continue with’ 12 times. Why has the government not submitted a plan to achieve the entire Norwegian climate target?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e481	I think we're going to be a little happy today, I. Today, fossil fuel consumption figures arrived in Norway last year. They're showing 13 pst. decline. Some of this is quite extraordinary because air traffic has been going on, so we can't count on it, but for the car and the transport sector except it's probably at the top of half a million tons that's now cut off extra last year. It shows that we're on the right track in terms of the cuts. We have delivered an ambitious plan with the main emphasis, of course, on the cuts to be made in the non-quota sector in order to achieve the targets and the emission plan we have in cooperation with the EU for this. That's where we're going to cut almost 17 million tons, aggregated over the period from this year to 2030. It's a plan for us to reach this. It's actually a plan to lie a little bit above what we've so far committed ourselves to. There are also very clear indications of how we are going to work with competitiveness, how we are going to work with new technology, how we are going to work with measures to ensure that the competitive sector will also renew for less emissions, even if they are not included in that part of the emission path. But the objective in this area is not a national target. The aim in this area is something that we are going to implement together with the EU. That means that we also have to use the means, like, the quota system, to get those solutions, but we've gone further. What we're doing, for example. in the case of the CO 2 tax, means that we go further, including for the competitive sector, than the quota system alone will provide. It's important to say that we have two different goals. One is to be achieved through national measures, the other through the Community within Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e495	It is absolutely permissible to enjoy the emissions that are being cut, but that is so that if we only look at the effect of the cuts that have been completed until now, without adding enough new measures, we will not achieve the goals we have set ourselves. I'll come back to it. Let me first ask the Prime Minister what kind of process she sees herself. We have a good tradition in Stortinget for broad climate settlements. We have seen that past climate announcements have been able to get even more weight and collection behind them – and often more action – by using broad cooperation in the Stortinge. Now the question is: When the government's partner, the Progress Party, has slaughtered this message to be too tough and ambitious, while we have criticized it for being too weak – have Erna Solberg and Sveinung Rotevatn intended to sit down with the Progress Party first and let them get the decisive influence over the message?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e504	Firstly, I would like to say that what we have presented is a plan full of new measures. We know that we're going to reduce emissions in the future with what we've done, but the whole point is that we're going to do more because we have greater ambitions. We're going to go further. We're going to cut more emissions. It is also important for us to say that we should cut emissions, but not progress. We need competitiveness, and we need to develop Norwegian business at the same time, so that we can ensure that we have more jobs and better revenues, and that we convert Norway into a low-emission society, not a low-emission society, in the future. There are two important premises for the work done by the government. As far as the work on Stortinget is concerned, I have said that I want the widest possible consensus on the measures. This is, of course, a completely different message from the previous messages. The messages we have had before have been little concrete, but have shown direction, and then you have negotiated and discussed some themes. They go quite far into regulation in some areas. I believe that all parties at Stortinget should talk. Of course, we want to talk to the Progress Party, but we do not have as our starting point that we should negotiate a solution that negotiates away the government's ambitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e511	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e516	I need to get it even a little bit clearer, I. Now the Prime Minister says she wants to have an agreement. I understand that, because any government would like the parties of the Great Britain to support what the government has put forward. But how is this going to happen? When she says she should talk to the Progress Party – will there be talks with the Progress Party first? It will in practice mean that the party that believes the climate notification contains too tough a requirement and that still has some climate denigrators in key positions will have that type of decisive influence on the notification. Or will the government seek cooperation with the entire opposition at the same time, thereby allowing us to block deterioration, but also to get more offensive action in some areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e521	Our goal is to have the widest possible cooperation on this. That's because this is about ten years from now. It concerns predictability for Norwegian industry. There are quite a number of detailed rules in different areas and sectors, which make it best to have a broadest possible majority behind individual measures. So it's a little bit up to our parties in Stortingen to evaluate what process they want. Of course, we want to do what we always do, to talk to the Progress Party. If that means that it's hard for us to get through what's the main lines of our policy, we'll say, of course, that it's much better to have broader cooperation. We are not going to negotiate our actions, because this is a very important matter for Norway in the future. It is important that stability is created in the future. We hope that the parties, from the Advance Party to the SV, or beyond, can agree on the main features. Then I don't have the illusion that we agree on everything. I think there are some political differences that will always be there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e528	It's still a little bit hard to figure out exactly what the council says here. I just want to have very specific answers to two very specific questions: Will the government parties sit down with the Progress Party first? That's the one. The second is, can the Prime Minister guarantee that the government parties will not agree to something that weakens the sum of emissions cuts in this message?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e534	In answer to the first, I would say, yes, we're going to talk to the Progress Party first, but we want to add up to a process where as much as possible can be involved in discussing the measures. And yes, we have an ambition that we should achieve those goals. It is important to remember that the goals we have set are not just things that we can politically negotiate away. We have committed ourselves to an agreement with the EU that we must have results of the kind that give a significant cut in emissions. But I don't believe, as I said, that we agree on everything. Neither were we in any of the previous climate settlement discussions. For example, one of the things the red-greens wouldn't do was commit themselves to a lift for Enova. That promise has been made several times by this government, but at that time one was not willing to commit to the economic framework for the increase of Enova. I sat in that negotiating room and remember well that I got no on that very thing. It is one of the most important things that this government has done, which enables competitive business to contribute and compete in the green areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e541	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e546	I find it sad that the Prime Minister is proposing to break the tradition with broad climate settlements. For broad climate settlements, to which the red-green government put up, was just one way to make sure that, among other things. several environmental parties came around the table. That's why SV, although we were in government, was very positive to a climate settlement, because it could make us get even more together. I just record that the opportunity we gave Erna Solberg will not give the opposition today, and that is bad, because it will weaken climate policy. Let me then proceed to some of the contents of the message. Yesterday the news came that the government once again gave a number of new drilling permits to the oil companies. In the climate communication, oil directors are very much at peace. Oil companies have promised to halve their emissions by 2030 relative to 2005, but it only corresponds to 14 pst. emissions cut compared to 1990. Who is the Prime Minister thinking should cut more when she does not have a plan for oil companies to cut more than what she has submitted?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e555	I feel the need to refresh the representative's memory about SV's large, open invitation to wide settlement. They refused the Advance Party to come to the table that time. The opposition wanted to have the Progress Party with it. We thought it was fully possible, as we have shown in the government, to involve the Progress Party in many good climate and environmental measures. That time I think, at least after what has been told us, that it was SV who put the foot down because they wouldn't negotiate with the Progress Party. The type of exclusive policy this government does not intend to add up to. We're going to add up to broad and good processes. We first intended to talk to those who are closest to us in the discussion, but we want the widest possible support and arrangements for the future work. When it comes to the question of oil and gas industries, it is that we add up to, among other things. an increase in the CO 2 tax, which will have an impact on this. We are also working on this entire big plan for the relationship between energy and our oil and gas resources in the future linked to the continental shelf. In this, we will also look at measures that contribute to even more reductions than those that will only come from other framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e565	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e570	So if I understand the Prime Minister correctly, it was very exclusive of us to want to talk to everyone except the Advance Party, while it is very inclusive of her to want to talk to only the Advance Party. I think she'll have some explanation problems with that. It is the Prime Minister who is now breaking a tradition to invite the widest possible. Our intention was to invite something that could strengthen climate policy and not weaken it. Finally, I would like to address what the Prime Minister himself raised in connection with the purchase of allowances. In the response of the Minister for Climate and Environment, it emerges that there may be a current measure to compensate for some of the emission cuts for which this Communication does not contain measures. Then it's important to remember what that means. This means that we have to pay for other countries' green shifts instead of investing in technology and industry, cutting emissions and facilitating green jobs in our own country. Why is it wise to pay others instead of investing with ourselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e579	The whole purpose of the message we have submitted is that we should take our responsibility, and we should cut in Norway. That's the main purpose. Then we've said that yes, there's a bit of this where there's a chance that we too – if we don't reach the targets, if it turns out we can't get to those measures, if it doesn't give those results – we could use some allowances. This is because climate considerations are reductions in global greenhouse gas emissions, not only national greenhouse gas emissions. That's the consideration. But it is the ‘last result’ of this government, because we have said that it is the national measures, the contributions we are going to make. That is why we have done what we have not achieved in the climate agreement with SV – we have also increased all the instruments that actually contribute to the green transition in the quota sector. That's why we have ambitious plans, and that's why, together with the Progress Party, we've actually been able to go beyond the climate agreement from the red-green ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e588	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e593	Why will Prime Minister Erna Solberg amend Norwegian law so that it will be prohibited to drive an old car into a city? For it is in the Prime Minister's proposal that it should be prohibited. One will change the law and ban those who have an old car, drive into a city – ban the old guy who wants to drive his wife to the store because she might be a little bad at the leg, forbid the craftsmen who need to bring them some equipment when they're going to work. There can't be any climate justification, even if that's the case, because there's minimal greenhouse gas emissions in having the ability to use an old car even inside the city center. Does Erna Solberg see that this turns out very unfair, that it hit hardest those who can't afford to buy a new car? It is most difficult for those who have practical jobs and who need equipment, while it is easier for those who have good advice and can buy a new electric car and adapt to the policy Erna Solberg wants. So the question is, why would Erna Solberg change the Norwegian law to prohibit old cars from driving in a city?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e600	Does the representative see irony in the context of this question and his main question, where he asked what else we should do, why we didn't listen to local democracy, why we didn't listen to local politicians who wanted to do something else, why we overrun them? This is a blank example of that. These are local politicians in Norway, from the larger cities, who have wanted an opportunity to test out zones. Let's give them a warrant. Let's let local democracy decide. Then we say that in the passageways that are national, we can't have it, because it would stop the traffic. But this is just to listen to those who have their feet there -- those who know what the challenges are, those who breathe the air into the city centres, who are polluted, those who have a challenge. How can the representative from the Central Party think that we should listen to local politicians on the one hand and at the same time be morally disgusted that we should give local politicians the opportunity to do something?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e609	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e615	In the government's Climate Action Communication, the main instrument is a gradual increase in CO 2 tax to NOK 2 000 per tonne by 2030, as we in the Green Party support. In addition, there is a need for many other measures that the notification ignores, such as reducing oil extraction, reducing meat consumption, increasing carbon capture and storage, sea wind and other green industries. Not least, a proper, proper climate budget is needed. However, the main weakness of the notification is that the government considers to torping its own main climate action before the notification is adopted, namely the CO 2 tax. The Climate Communication states that most of the climate cuts are to be carried out in road transport. In recent years, however, the government has chosen to reduce the user charge just as much as they set up the CO 2 price, so that the price of petrol and diesel should be just as low. If the government continues to do so, the climate notification shows that 3 million. tonnes, i.e. 15 pst. of the total emission cuts to be achieved according to the Climate Communication will never happen — and with a level of ambition that is already low. The report states that the government has not taken a position, but the right-wing transport policy spokesman, Helge Orten, has taken a decision. In the debate on the NRK last week, he said, ‘There is no need to increase the price of petrol and diesel today to stimulate a change in behaviour’. by the emitters that the climate communication promises, will never be any of?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e633	The climate report now shows that we can achieve our objectives both with and without doing that change in the road tax, but we can do more if we do not. We have not taken a position on the situation every year ahead, but have based ourselves on the consensus we have with the Progress Party in the Granavolden platform to neutralise the increase in the budgets we are presenting in this period. The great dynamic effect, the one that we can see today, and that I say we're going to be happy, with the 500,000 tons reduction in CO 2 emissions from road transport – except aircraft, because it's 13 pst. more if you take airplanes – show that we are in the midst of a quite big system change. And when we estimate that all new cars sold from 2025 will be electric cars, this dynamic effect will continue to increase. But we have not, as the government, taken a position on this. We've shown the way, it's clear it's a little less we're going to be able to reduce, the pace is going to be a little bit lower, but it also has a distributive effect, and it has an effect on how we make sure that people are able to keep up with development when we're going to do it. Targeted ways of returning the additional revenues will also be the alternative discussion. Can we bring it back again to people who have not been able to afford to switch to a new car yet, who depend on a larger car – can we get it done and find other targeted tools that reach them – can there be a way to do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e641	There is no doubt that electric car sales are increasing, and that developments are moving in the right direction. The question is whether things are going fast enough. The pace of climate policy is what determines and is the difference between bad climate policy, which is not enough, which does not work, and which results in accelerating climate change, which means that our children have to do that task for us, and the good climate policy, which allows us to act while we still have time, without becoming very interventional and serious measures for the population. I notice that the Prime Minister has not at all taken a decision as to whether the main instrument of the climate communication should apply to road transport. That's what I think is most strange at a time when the world is going to halve emissions in ten years. Yes, it is possible to set your goal so low that you can achieve it without using the main instrument. It also says that that goal is too low. It also applies only to the non-quota sector, and the Prime Minister is aware that much of the Storting is critical of it, because we have to show how we cut, in all sectors. The government has not even been able to deliver a proper climate budget, which obliges departments and agencies to cut the budget for each of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e648	We have created a climate budget related to emissions in the non-quota sector. We have not done this for the quota sector, because the whole logic of the quota sector is that we are doing this at European level. I've shown earlier that if we, for example, in some industrial areas, we can get more emissions in Norway even if emissions are globally smaller if Norwegian companies take market share related to this. We're also making big investments in technology change. Since 2015, when we started with the green shipping programme, we have stimulated a whole new thinking in Norwegian shipping industry and Norwegian shipping, among other things. means that Norwegian shipowners have set themselves the objective of not ordering after 2030 any non-zero-emission boats. In this way, we have built up knowledge and competence and achieved results, even if we do not use laws and regulations and regulations for everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e655	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Une Bastholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e660	I hear a very unwillingness to commit. My main question is about road transport and non-quota sectors. The budget submitted is – with respect to reporting – not a climate budget. It looks more like a third-class math problem. It's just saying where we're going to be in 2030, you divide it into nine years, and you get a number per year. That's not what the Stortinget has asked for over and over again. We've asked for an overview of how much is going to be cut in each sector, who's responsible, and what it's going to cost. That is what we have put in place in large cities like Oslo, which gives us control and an open and democratic debate on climate policy and development for which the government is responsible. In addition, this is to be negotiated with the Progress Party, which is going to torpedo even more of the government's already low ambitions. I can't understand how it's going to be credible then that the government wants to achieve its own goals or wants to make the most of our children in this situation. I wonder which other measures will replace the 15 pst. in terms of emissions savings that we are now at risk will not happen because the user charge will continue to be compensated, i.e. reduced, while the CO 2 tax will be increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e672	It was the representative who brought in that we didn't have enough for the quota sector. That's what I answered in the previous question. I think we should remember that when we are going to achieve our objectives at European level – we are going to treat Norwegian businesses in a non-discriminatory way – it would be unnatural to draw up an emission accounting for Norwegian business. There is a difference between the Green Party and many other parties: we think we should manage to cut emissions, but not progress. We believe Norway can be an industrial nation in the future. We believe that we can ensure jobs and well-being. It also means that in some areas we will experience that there are sectors in Norway that, because they win the competition to be the best – they have the lowest emissions, the lowest costs and are dynamic – have slightly higher emissions, while still contributing to the reduction of global emissions. That's why we can't have national targets that are just set for it. When I say that we have not taken a decision on the question of the road tax, it is because it is an agreement we have with the Progress Party for this period – through the Granavolden Declaration – but it does not apply for the next periods, and therefore we have shown the two.... [[President clubs]] [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e681	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e686	Power prices go to the weather. One who lives in South Norway will probably have to spend NOK 4000 more on the current this year than last year, and that in a situation where 200,000 people are unemployed and have fallen sharply into income. Increased power prices can make it difficult – very difficult – for many with poor advice in the future. In 2020, more than 124 000 households received housing support. For many of them, and also for those who do not qualify for housing support, but have little from before, such as low pay, pensioners and people outside of work, a high electricity bill becomes an insurmountable expense. Then there's also fewer, it has to be said, who receive housing support after the Solberg government took over. Not least, it's thousands of losers. Two years ago, electricity prices also went on the roof. Then Red made a proposal for an additional payment of housing aid as an immediate measure for people with poor advice, since the same was done after the cold period in 2010–2011, when both electricity prices and subsequent debt collection cases increased. We got our proposal voted in the hall in January 2019. However, two months later, in March 2019, the government followed and made an additional housing allowance. But then it turned out, it also has to be said, that the government gave with one hand and took a little bit with the other, because the extra living support gave way to other benefits. Red now comes up with a proposal for an additional payment of housing aid to remedy the situation of people affected by the sharp increase in electricity prices. What does the government think about reintroducing such a kind of action as a helping hand to those who need it now?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e697	In 2020, we had exceptionally low power prices. This contributed to a very low price increase in Norway. It contributed to better economic space for many, because the bills were smaller. We are now inside week 3 in January. It's a little early to say how the power price changes are going to be in the future. We're in a cold period right now. But we have very full magazines. There's a lot of water. It's taken a lot of time. As everyone in the East has complained a lot about, it counted very much last autumn. This means that it's not an estimate that you're going to have so high power prices for now, but the cold period is going to contribute. That means we have to see these indicators together. Once we've gone into this before, it has, among other things, have been because we have estimated that there will be more and longer periods because the magazines have been empty, because it has not been so. If we remember the summer of 2018, it was a dry summer. It also meant that there was little in the magazines for a period of time. Then it was natural for us to contribute because it was less likely that the price would go down. So we'll probably have to spend some time looking into whether exceptional measures are necessary. However, as the representative also points out, we have used such measures before. If it turns out that there will be extraordinarily high prices over a long period of time, this is an opportunity to do so. But it has to be done in the light of expectations and knowledge of what is going to happen. We have a year behind us with exceptionally low prices, with mild weather. Right now we're in a cold period. Then the price often goes up because a lot of people use electricity. But it can be thought that a little milder weather and full magazines make the price lower if not too much time. So I would say it's a little early to say that we now have an extraordinary situation that makes you give extra subsidies for housing. But I'm never removed from that it's possible to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e710	Yes, fortunately, it was exceptionally low electricity prices in 2020, but now we have an exceptional number of unemployed people, who have significantly less to travel with than they had in the past – severe cuts in income because they live on the daily allowance that has been granted, or that they have lost their job and are completely unemployed. For many of them, an increased electricity bill of NOK 4000 more compared to last year means a lot. Maybe it's not such a big bill if you have a pretty solid salary of over $1 million yourself, but for those who are struggling to get things around, this could mean a lot. Some people know we're going to have to prioritize between the power bill and other absolutely essential bills. Does the Prime Minister see that this can be a problem for quite a few in the future if the Prime Minister's predictions about the weather do not strike?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e718	Luckily, in terms of energy prices, it's been known, which is sometimes the most important, namely how much filling we have in the warehouses, and it's currently good. That means that had been very low fillings and the probability of less current and high power prices for the rest, it would have been a bigger danger sign. I fully agree that there are groups that may need a handshake when the expenses of this type become too large, but I feel that it is too early when we are in week 3, in January, and in the middle of a cold period, to take the snapshot now and say that it means that this has a large cut. We don't know, but we're prepared – as we always are – to be able to contribute if it turns out to be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e725	It opens for follow-up questions – first Bears Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e730	There are some who fall between all the chairs, because fewer people receive housing support after the Solberg government took over. Not least, it's a lot of bad things. They do not receive it if they have fallen victim after 2015, mostly. When it was a cold shock two years ago, we heard about the untrained who got their health problems worse from the cold and had to lay under the cushion before 6 p.m. to keep the heat, save the power and save money. I wonder if the Prime Minister and the government see this problem – that many more who are struggling initially fall outside the housing support system. In this case, what will they do to ensure that the scheme includes several of those who have poor advice, such as: many of those who are illiterate?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e737	It is that, through the changes that have been made in recent years, there are several that get a lot more, but there are a few that don't get at all. We have therefore made the housing support schemes more targeted. We've made sure it's up-to-date numbers that are being taken into account. This means that those who have received an improvement in the economy, who previously also received housing support with delay, will no longer receive it. But it's faster, more modernized and more focused for those who have it. What happened in the old days was that disabled people and some old-age pensioners, due to much lower pension levels, but higher real income and disposable income, came under some support schemes because they were not taken into account, for example, for example. had a lower tax system than others. The changes made to the changes caused some of them to be comparable with other groups, and therefore went out. That's right, because we also have to compare disability with families with children.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e744	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e749	I'm worried about the messages we get about coronary fatigue in schools and kindergartens all over the country. Especially worried about the many worn-out employees. Some qualified employees with time and confidence in doing the job are the main factor in good learning and a safe growth for our children. The duel from in ours is cancelled. The short-lived skipper has been replaced by a long-lasting, intense work pressure for both teachers, employees and students, who will last the school year. This isn't black paint, it's reality out there. Employees do their best, but do not have the resources and people needed to stretch to – extend to all the children who need that community and the learning arena the school and kindergarten. VG could reveal alarming numbers that confirm this. Teachers say in an investigation that they are overworked, infected and underpaid for the extra work that the pandemic brings with them to school. 53 pst. of which they have either sought their way away or are considering looking for a job outside school. It's a shockingly high number. The alarm clocks should ring. So the teachers want to get away – one can almost say they're escaping from the right-hand school. Is the Prime Minister satisfied with this development?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e760	Retorics of the type «fed from the right school» when we're really talking about being tired of a pandemic, I think it's a little bit sought. Now I have to be allowed to say that I understand that the teachers think this is tiring. I understand that it is demanding for everyone who needs to change the way they operate, the ways they work, and who needs to change from time to time. Teachers are proud of their profession. Most teachers are very concerned about being well prepared and have a good educational structure, and it is frustrating when it needs to change in a short time. So I have a lot of understanding for that. Then the government is now closely following these things. We're trying to give as good a follow-up as possible. Among other things, we have compensated municipal sector by 18.7 billion. kr extra last year to deal with the coronary apathy, among others. in schools and kindergartens, and we spent extra money to compensate schools and kindergartens in it, in addition to what the Working Party between the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the KS has, which is about assessing how much money the pandemic actually costs. When we gave an extra room in that compensation, it was because we see that there is a need for good action. These include: Somewhere pointed out that more premises should be rented, that better staffing needs to be sought, because many people get quarantined — that kind of action. But this is how micromanagement of what happens in School-Norway: When we give more frameworks to the municipalities, we perceive that it is important that municipal politicians also follow and look at how they improve the framework. It allows them to take care that they take account of the situation and perhaps take action that can relieve them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e769	The Prime Minister may as well be rhetorical or not, but this is reality out there, and it's government's responsibility to follow up with enough resources. The calculations show that the cost is greater than the compensation and the support given by the government. The calculation doesn't go up at all. Teachers and employees will do their best, but simply don't have resources and people to stretch to. Now it also seems in the rhetoric of the Prime Minister that the work from in ours has been cancelled. At least the Prime Minister doesn't even use that word. We can assume that the exhausting year we have behind us will last for the school year. The studies show that teachers and employees in schools and kindergartens who stood up for our chores now feel forgotten. Has the government forgotten them?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e780	The government has certainly not forgotten them. We have a lot of meetings and a lot of follow-up. We work both with school owners, with county councils and municipalities and with the teachers and teachers' organisations in this work, and our Minister of Education is actively working on these questions. When you say from the Labour Party that the calculation doesn't go up, I have to ask the question, what is the calculation you're referring to? We have one model to work on that calculation, one model that has been used by a lot of governments over a long, long time, and that is to sit down with the specialist and KS and agree on what the calculation is. We overcompensated that last year by 1.4 billion. NOK, and we have also said that we are going to follow the conclusions that come from that group, to fill in during this year. So then I have to ask the representative to tell us what the calculations are, or explain why you do not trust that the calculations of the KS and the cooperation we have on this are correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e785	There will be follow-up questions – first Torstein Tvedt Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e791	Those calculations are available, and the problem is that the government and the Prime Minister are not doing their job. KS has in its calculations e.g. appear to be 50 pst. the municipalities were not compensated for the loss of parental payment in kindergartens and SFOs. The government's money is too late, and it's too little of them. What's so alarming about the consequences of this -- and as it shocks me a little bit that the government and the prime minister don't realize and want to join in -- is what the VGs show, that the teachers now want to leave school. A lot of people I've spoken to have already stopped. Many now count on the buttons, because one stands in front of another intense spring with new extra work. So can the Prime Minister today promise that the schools and kindergartens will have the money and resources to go to, or will this spring be as exhausting as the harvest was?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e796	The way our income system is, I can promise that the municipalities will be compensated for the extra costs they have for the pandemic, that we'll follow that calculation. We haven't heard what other operations there are, but we have a group going through and looking at this, and that group's numbers are going to be taken into account. Last year we spent 1.4 billion. kr on top. We have also said that within that there may be differences between municipalities. That's why we've said that we use beauty to help where there's extraordinarily high costs and bigger problems. But the main picture is that we have it. Then I have to ask the question: what do the local politicians of the Workers' Party do with that money? The majority of the rapporteurs, who now have a responsibility to follow up the fact that the money and the steering signals go out to the municipalities – not least based on the fact that the municipal structure of the Workers' Party had given less real income than that of the government, because there were so many tied funds. At least you should be sure that you actually use what you get, in a good way, to the schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e801	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e815	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the electronic question list in the salapp. The changes were as follows: Question 7, from the representative Sylvi Listhaug to the Minister for Justice and Security, has been transferred to the Minister for Health and Welfare who is directing him. The question will be raised by the representative of Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e829	‘Once again, school employees were called to work without the government meeting themselves. Red level means a completely different way of organizing school day. Red level means less cohorts, fixed classrooms and one meter distance between students and employees. The red level means more work for schools and increased labour pressure. Does the Council of State see that the red level requires increased resources for schools?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e836	The government sees very well that the introduction of red measures at short notice was demanding for both school leaders, students, teachers and other employees at school, parents, municipalities and county councils, but the reason why we introduced these measures on 4 January was to get control of an unclear situation with increasing infection and a lot of travel activities in connection with the Christmas and New Year celebration. We had to act quickly when we saw the increase in infection. If not, we could have risked having drifted at the red action level for a very much longer period. Now we've decided that we're going back to the schools themselves decide locally whether to be on the red or the yellow level. We have always been very clear that the local government sector will be compensated — both for the effects of tax failure, for loss of income and for additional expenditure related to the coronary apathy. As the Prime Minister also stated in the oral question procedure, the calculations show that so far the municipalities have been compensated more than they have demonstrated that they have had expenditure. Of course, some calculations have not been made completely, and in retrospect they will show that there is a need for even more. The government then said that we should use these means, so let there be no doubt – the government is preparing for the municipalities. So far we've compensated around 20 billion. kr – broad – to the municipalities, and for the first half of 2021 we have given 8.6 billion. kr, e.g. justified by the need in schools and kindergartens, because it is obvious that it costs money to put in temporary workers and have smaller groups. Extra cleanness, soap and anti-bac were not in the schools' budgets in 2020, but it should be in the budgets for 2021, for this is no unexpected cost, and we have been crystal clear several times that it should not be cut in school to save money for other corona measures. We assume that the municipalities and county councils follow up, so that the money goes to schools and kindergartens. At the same time, we follow the situation closely, and we constantly assess the need for new measures and more resources. The representative of the Workers’ Party has actually demanded several billions to attend school throughout the harvest, but when the opposition made 77 proposals on Monday at the Stortinget, there were not billions to school among those proposals. I hope, of course, that the representative of the Workers' Party, a party with 144 rapporteurs, will help to ensure that the money reaches schools and kindergartens throughout the country. It is not a discharge to ask the municipalities to follow up when the government has already granted funds. It is the responsibility of the school owners, who are responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e847	Although one week goes down to yellow levels in many places, there is a ‘red level’ of school workload across the country. Teachers and employees were tired of the extra work before they got a Christmas holiday. These weeks have not done better, and the government did not follow up the red level with a single crown or a recognition that the red level requires more work and increased resources. The calculations one here refers to are as far back as in October and November, long before one knew at all about the current situation, and long before an introduced red level, so the need is greater than the appropriations given by the Council of State. The operations don't go up. In addition, we know that many teachers had to work through the evening for free because of the directives introduced by the government at a red level. Does the Council of State think it right that teachers should work free of charge as a consequence of the directives of the Council of State itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e854	When the government presented its supplementary proposal to the municipalities in November, we were fully aware that the six months we are now in will lead to increased costs in health, kindergarten, school and a number of other sectors. That's why we also received advice from the working group set up by the KS and representatives from the departments that we should set aside just over 7 billion. extra kroner for the municipalities. We were afraid it was a little low, so we added another billion, mainly based on the needs of school, kindergarten and health. So the government predicted this situation as early as November. This means that when local authorities made their budgets during November and December and school budgets were made, increased temporary costs, increased clean-up and a number of other things should definitely be taken into account. Obviously, teachers should not work overtime for free, and obviously everyone should be compensated for the job they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e861	I just confirm that the Council of State has still not answered my main question – whether she realizes that the red level requires increased resources, and that the calculation does not go up. One so far away from the demand from the expert group that it refers to, that the money should be earmarked. You didn't. Reality is also, as the Council of State so far responds to, that very many teachers and employees get a lot more work. They have to work for free, and they have a lot of extra load. So far, the teachers have not had any overtime. There are few people who are allowed to take some time off. I would like to challenge the Council of State specifically whether she will take action as their chief executive to ensure that extra payments are paid, and that one avoids more free work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e868	Well, it's obviously more demanding to run schools on both a yellow and a red level than it's usual. It costs money, and there are many employees who have much higher sick leave than usual. It means larger temporary expenses. There are increased clean-up costs, sometimes you might have rented extra premises to get more distance, and maybe someone has set up extra school pillows. Obviously, it costs money. That's also the reason why we dropped 8.6 billion in November. kr extra for the local government sector. We've been clear that it turns out that it's too small, we're going to set off more, so it's important that local politicians now don't hold back and think they have to be a little careful if they don't cover the expenses they have. Although we are in a time of crisis, I do not want to abolish local democracy. I think it's an eye-catching little trust the representative shows his local politicians when he thinks the government should override them and earmark funds. If we're going to start doing that, sector by sector, I'm very afraid that we're not doing anything right, or that the individual municipalities get a chance to spend the money where the need is greater.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e878	‘On questions from the Central Party’s representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand on the professional basis of changes in mathematics, the Council of State replied in November 2020 that the government is committed to involving organisations and trade unions. However, the Directorate of Education has confirmed in the media that not all decisions have been submitted to the academic community in advance, and that the framework for the examination had been laid down before the Math Centre was commissioned to develop examination tasks. Will the Council of State stop the conversion and involve the professional environments so that all students are given the opportunity to demonstrate their competence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e885	Let me start by thanking the representative for giving me the opportunity to answer questions about new exams in mathematics. There has been a great deal of commitment to the matter both in the sector, in professional environments and also here on the Stortinget. I'm glad. That training and examination are on the agenda is important for many reasons. Only through good involvement of the sector can we anchor and provide confidence in the content of training. It is not least important that we also develop different views in order to make thorough professional assessments of changes. Let me say a little bit about the background of this work. Both the curricula, the examination schemes and changes in the assessment regulation have been consulted. The examination schemes and assessment regulations were heard in the spring of 2020. In addition, a group appointed by the Ministry of Knowledge has made a recommendation on the need for improvements in examinations. This group included both researchers and representatives of the organisations. It is the curriculum that provides the overall leadership for the content of the training. It is therefore an important principle that the examination must also be based on the curriculum. We now have a new curriculum, and exams must be adapted to the new curriculum. The proposal now discussed publicly is common mathematics at vg1. The examination for those opting for a math programme that qualifies for real-time studies, etc., has not yet been developed. So to that representative, Hove's demand, that's involvement. In the development and testing of types of exams in mathematics, the Directorate of Education has commissioned the Math Centre at NTNU. In addition, the unit for quantitative educational analysis at the University of Oslo has contributed to quality assurance. The Education Directorate has therefore wanted to have an open line in the development of new examination tasks. There are, among other things: piloted tasks and proposals for tasks have been shared for feedback. There have been trials with students – it's never happened before, it's something completely new – and that actually makes it possible for us to change tasks based on the experience we've acquired. When the criticism came in the fall, a forum for sectoral involvement was also established, i.e. organisations, in addition to the professional involvement of researchers and the UH environment. On 13 January, a complete proposal for a set of tasks was published which had changed on many of the points addressed in the criticism. Let me be clear on this: the proposals for tasks are put out in order that we want to record, and that there is room for making adjustments. The Education Directorate shall meet with the organisations in the reference group at the end of January. I also follow the situation closely and will evaluate the recordings that come from schools and teachers. I am concerned that they should be followed up, and that they should be discussed with both organisations, universities and universities. I want to look at what these processes result in, before I draw any final conclusions. We have to involve widely. We're evaluating several alternatives. We also consider whether to wait with a new examination form, even though the examination must be adapted to the new curricula. It is important to me that exams and exams have confidence both in the sector and in society. I can assure the representative Hove that I am concerned that the new exam will be as good as possible, and that the students will be shown the skills they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e902	I thank you for your relatively good answer. I still want to comment. I use to say that I have to connect to the handwriting machine, not least when I have to calculate something, and evaluate or compare something. I would like to remind the Council of State that there are not so many years since the written exam was extended from two to three hours without help, and that was a good reason for this, for example. that there were some basic skills that had to be tested. The centre party, which many people have said, thinks that there is a subject of its own and the objectives of competence in the curriculum one should focus on, not unilaterally that it should be digitized. An integer exam does not give students the ability to display calculations and what they can do, even if their answer is not correct. So I'm still going to ask the Council of State if it shares the Central Party and many people's concerns about how a new form of examination can weaken the focus on the basic skills of teaching, and that students are not shown what they can do during exams.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e909	The point of showing you what you can is really important. One of the adjustments that have now been made in the light of the criticism and debate that has taken place is that the students are given the opportunity simply to write the calculation by hand, take a picture of it and upload it as part of the exam set, so if you do not master the data tools so well and do not get to write formulas, etc. there, it is fully possible to deliver it by hand if you wish. So I think that a good part of the criticism that has come is taken care of by the changes that the Education Directorate has already made, but I'm very excited to see how the new set of problems that have now been laid out is being accepted. As I said, I'm open to make further adjustments if there's still serious criticism coming, which we have to meet. But I want us to now follow the very thorough process that we've set up, and that we get an opportunity to follow it completely before we make any changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e914	Thank you again for your reply. However, I would like to ask the Council of State if she can say something about what is concrete in the new curriculum that points out that there must be a whole-digital exam in mathematics with all the tools available. There's something of the point here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e919	The decision that the examination should be digital is not necessarily related to the curriculum. That decision is primarily about universal design, and it is also about the possibility of safer, better and more efficient conduct of examinations. What's important is the way the problems are designed, that's what's about the curriculum. In this way, you could probably have printed out the problems that have been created, and answered them manually instead of using data tools, so it's kind of not the most important thing. As regards the development of the content related to the curriculum, it is about the content of the tasks, the way they are designed. The debate on what mathematics really should be in vg1, in higher education, is a pretty big debate. I believe that we took that debate when we made the trade renewal, and I also believe that the new tasks far on the way are taking that development in a very good way. But as I said, I'm open to look at the recordings that are now coming up on the new set of problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e929	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration: ‘The Directorate of Education has unilaterally decided that the first part of the two-part examination in mathematics shall be replaced by a multi-choice task and that all facilities shall be allowed throughout the examination. This happens despite strong warnings from academics and academic environments in mathematics who fear that this will lead to weaker basic mathematical understanding and arithmetic skills, especially among the students who labor most in the subject from before. Does the Council of State consider such a conversion advisable when close to all professional advice goes in the opposite direction?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e938	The representatives of Hove and Arnstad ask the same question in part. So I don't want to repeat my whole article on question 2. I would like to take the opportunity to comment on Arnstad's claim that almost all the technical advice goes in the opposite direction. The Directorate has prepared the examination tasks in cooperation with the Math Centre at NTNU and has also had related professional resources in the development of the tasks. But when that is said, I would say that I take the criticism that has come very seriously. I want to listen to counter-conceptions, and there have already been a number of adjustments to the problems based on the recordings that have been made. New adjustments based on input generated by the new set of tasks that has been released will certainly also be proposed. As I said in the answer to the question from the representative of Hove, the Education Directorate has made a good deal of changes to the examination set that was published last week. Schools, teachers and the professional community are still able to provide feedback on the set of tasks. The discussion that is now taking place in different online trades shows that there are more opinions about the proposed change than you have so far been able to get the impression. But I would like to point out that in order for the innovation to become a reality, the exam must also reflect that the curricula have new objectives of competence. New objectives of competence in the new curricula require changes in the content of examinations. Multi-choice tasks do not necessarily help to change something in the subject. We've had that in national trials over very many years, and I haven't recorded that there has been any criticism of that way of demonstrating competence. Having different types of tasks that allow students to demonstrate their skills in different ways, I think it is very important that both highly professionally strong and professionally weak students should be shown different ways. So we've added up to a pretty thorough process -- exam assignments in mathematics have never been piloted before and tested on students. I think that's very good, and it also helps to create a security that the content will work if it's put into use on a whole coal. There is also no doubt that we are in the middle of a school year that is marked by considerable uncertainty among teachers and students, and now we cannot finally conclude on the situation around the exam. It also applies if the mathematics examination is to be carried out as planned in the spring of 2021. Now there is a process of feedback on the task set that has been published, and then we consider the need for further adjustments. We do that in an open process, and I will ensure the good involvement of the sector and the professional community in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e957	I believe that some of the problem with this process is that the Education Directorate has not behaved process-oriented, but they have been very decision-oriented. They have gone out and almost made known that these are decisions that have been made. Now the Council of State here says that one should be more decision-making, but it must be clear when as strong organisations as the Federation of Education, the Literary Team, the Tekna and a number of universities as well as the Deans of the faculties concerned are very critical of the decisions taken by the Directorate of Education. The member of the Governing Council of the Right Party writes the following in a chronicle a few days ago: ‘In addition, we think it is very worrying that feedback suggests that the examination scheme does not deal with the new curricula and innovation in a good enough way. Professional renewal involves an important change for Norwegian school, but it does not focus less on basic calculus and mathematical knowledge.’ Does the Council share the concern expressed by her colleague in the Government Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e969	What I understand is that the representative Arnstad now referred to was part of the criticism that has been expressed from the professional community. It's a criticism we're serious about. There is also a little of the background to the fact that the examination tasks have now been adjusted from the original proposal. Those tasks were put out on 13 January – it was quite a short time ago – and I am very excited to see the reception I receive. The most important thing about this conversion is that we have an exam that is adapted to the innovation, that we make sure that we have an exam where the students are shown their skills and their competence in mathematics. It involves all kinds of skills, including basic accounting skills. Now, what I see is that the discussion is going on a little bit, is what's the best way to show these basic math skills. Is it by showing calculations, or is it by showing that one can apply the knowledge on more advanced questions, where one shows an understanding of the subject? I'm actually experiencing that is the biggest discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e976	What I quoted was a seamly statement by the representatives of Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde and Turid Kristensen, the co-workers of the Council of State in the Right Party of Government. The Council of State is right that we are in a school year of great uncertainty, and this decision contributes to increased uncertainty. After all, it's only four months left until you have to take the exam. So the Council of State says that she and the government are now going to use the time to evaluate the task sets that are now out. But then we are immediately in a situation where there are a few months left for the exam, and then one should possibly introduce a new scheme where one has a few months to prepare for a very big conversion that has met with great criticism from many environments. Doesn't the Council of State see that it is easy to experiment with the students and also the teachers, who are going to prepare the students for exams, and that this means that one should take better time, wait, conduct exams as normal now in ours, and not expose the students to this type of experiment?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e983	I never think that exam assignments, either in mathematics or in any other subject matter, have been the subject of such thorough preparatory work as the ones that are now outsourced. So I understand very well that all the teachers could have wanted better time, and if these set of problems had been done in August, it would obviously have been better than they were ready now. It's also among the arguments we're considering when we're looking at whether we're going to continue as planned, or whether we're going to make changes. I can promise the representative that it won't take very long before we make decisions about any changes, because the sector needs to get that time to prepare well for the exam.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e993	‘Lavangen Municipality has chosen to take an important responsibility for society, as the Council of State is well aware. Through its commitment, the municipality has met challenges for child protection that are not feasible for a municipality of the size of Lavangen. We rely on municipalities to take such responsibility, while at the same time contributing nationally, when dramatic and unexpected situations arise. The situation is now serious, and it is essential that the Council of State, not least for the sake of the children of Lavangen, actually contribute. How will the matter be resolved?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1000	The municipalities to which the representative refers have an important responsibility when they accept and settle asylum seekers and refugees. Municipalities also have a very important responsibility as the first line of child protection. The municipality of Lavangen is doing an important job on behalf of society, and I have a lot of understanding that the municipality, which has taken this responsibility seriously, is in a demanding financial situation, and that it is experiencing challenges for the municipality. The costs of the case raised by the representative are not just child protection costs. Part of it is also expenditure on education, etc. That means there are several departments that are affected by it. That is why I have taken the initiative to take a closer look at the matter together with other departments concerned. In child protection, it is the municipality where the child resides that is responsible for the child’s obtaining the services and measures it needs. It is also this municipality that is intended to cover current expenditure, regardless of whether the child lives in a foster home or an institution in another municipality. An important factor underpinning legislation is the protection of young people, and they will not become wasteballs in the system. I understand that this can be very challenging for the municipalities, and especially in the cases where the kids live in the municipality for a short period of time. However, the Child Protection Act is designed to prevent children in need of assistance from falling between two chairs. A clear division of responsibilities is therefore important in these cases. In this case, we see that the municipality has received high expenses. In such situations, municipalities have the opportunity to receive a discretionary grant from the state administrator, which I know Lavangen Municipality has received. I would also like to point out that the system of grants in the field of integration is designed in such a way that it is the municipality that bears the costs of these matters, which is entitled to the grants. This is a complicated case where there are therefore several departments involved, and as mentioned earlier, I have therefore taken the initiative to look at matters together with the different departments and hopefully find a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1017	It is good that the Council of State has taken the initiative to talk to several departments, because it is quite right that this matter is complicated, but it is also very special. And the government has solved other such very special things at very short notice, even if it meant just one municipality, and it's coming in, I mean, in the order of how this right-hand government prioritizes. When it came to the situation of Bø, which would be a municipality with a tax exemption, the government operated expeditedly and gave a special rule that Bø would not lose money on this. So now, when we're in a situation where there's a lot of spending on caring for some of the most vulnerable children we have in Norway, it's time for a postponement of finding a good solution. Why can't a special rule come into place?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1028	As I said, and on which we are fortunately in agreement at the outset, this is complex, and it affects several departments. That is why we are in dialogue to look at this specific matter. This means that any new measures will require legislative changes, and it may also require additional appropriations, which must follow normal decision-making procedures and insofar as budgetary procedures are concerned. In this case, because I agree that it is a very special case, the existing scheme that is most up to date is precisely these discretionary measures. There I know that the municipality has received some money, and there may also be a possibility in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1035	I disagree with the Council of State that the means of discretion should be the solution to this particular matter. Skews are for ordinary use. This is very, very special. The expenditure of the municipality of Lavangen is exceptional and long-term and will have major consequences for many, many years. Then it has one more element, and that's that the municipality of Lavangen has excelled in receiving refugees. They have stood in the brink of caring for and fulfilling what the government has asked for, namely, to receive people on the run. They have. Now they're going to be sitting on the bill, and the government is pulling away from the hard work. The government can therefore give priority to opt-outs in the case of tax havens, overnight, but fails to find measures that can solve the precarious situation they face. Is this a good priority, according to the views of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1044	I do not agree that these are comparable issues. In addition, there was a relatively small amount of money involved with the municipality of Bø. The important thing here is to try to find a good solution. That is why I immediately took the initiative to talk to the Minister of State. This also applies to the Minister of Knowledge, as I said. It is important that one tries to find solutions. Although the case is special, it is not unmistakable that it happens again, but often on a smaller scale. That's why I disagree, because it's just to be able to deal with obvious bias, as one sees here, that you have beauties. As I said, the municipality of Lavangen has taken an important responsibility, which I am pleased that they have taken. That is why, on the basis of that, I have just taken the initiative. Political management has met with the municipality to get more information on the matter, and we are now working forward to see if there is anything we can do to remedy the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1056	‘On the Weitvet and Kalbakken in Groruddalen, there is a strong local commitment to the government’s plans to establish Norway’s largest prison on Bredtvet. This option involves building up large parts of the forest and soils and establishing high walls close to the terraced houses. Bredwetskogen is an important open-air area with rich wildlife and a recreational area for the neighbours and the population of the Grorud and Bjerke district, which is already heavily dense. Can the Council of State calm the population locally and say that the plans of the Bredtvet are shattered?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1063	The government has not taken a decision on the location of a new Oslo prison, and we are still considering different alternatives. Today, Oslo Prison has 240 high-level prisoners and is important in terms of police custody in Oslo. Presumably 70 pst. of the prisoners were custody inmates, which makes the need for transportation to and from the police, court and health services extra big. The prison is in very poor condition, and there is a closure notice, which means that state buildings cannot guarantee further operation unless a very extensive rehabilitation is carried out. I therefore believe there is a broad consensus that there is a great need to build a new Oslo prison. State buildings have carried out a thorough location analysis and assessed 180 plots for a new Oslo prison. Both the Directorate of Criminal Welfare, State Building and External Quality Assurance have made a clear recommendation to locate a new Oslo prison on Bredtvet. This location for a new Oslo prison is the most economically profitable option. I would like to add that a new prison in Bredtvet could also provide a significant improvement in the housing conditions for women, because the plans involve new buildings to replace the women's places that are there today. I am well aware of the local resistance to expansion on the Bredtvet. For me, the location itself is not crucial, and I have therefore always been in dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo to find the best possible solution. I had a meeting last week before Christmas with the mayor and the urban development bureau on the matter. My challenge is that Oslo has a great need for a new prison. It must be on a land with a basic condition and size that allows a good prison to be built, and it should preferably be located close to public transport and with the shortest possible transport distances. If the Bredtvet option is not feasible, prison operations in Greenland are still a current option that we are now considering together with other sites.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1076	I thank you for your answer. It was an answer that I must say is suitable for continuing concern in the local population. SV is well aware of the needs of the Oslo prisons, both in terms of upgrading Bredtveit female prisons, which I fully agree are not in an adequate state, and in terms of Oslo county prisons. At the same time, it is not excluded that this area is extremely important for the local population, in urban areas with major living conditions challenges. It is the only coherent green area between Trondheimswegen and Ostre Aker väg, and the objectives of the Groruddalsssetting are to strengthen the local environment and develop better growing conditions. I would argue that these plans mean the opposite. I will again challenge the Council of State on whether these objectives, which you also have, should weigh heavily here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1083	It's my responsibility to get a new Oslo prison. It's a responsibility I take very seriously, and if I'm going to be honest – and I can be honest – I wish we weren't supposed to be in Oslo Municipality, because all the other municipalities would want such an investment and jobs very welcome. That's why I also looked at the possibility of going beyond the borders of Oslo Municipality, but it's very complicated when it comes to logistics and transportation to our prisons, to health care, and not least to the court. Actually, we are in a situation where a great job has been done. Not many large plots are suitable for this and where we can get what we can do on the Bredtvet. I take seriously that there is great resistance in the population there. That is why I have also been in dialogue with the municipality. We could have implemented a state plan, but we don't want to do that. We have a wish that we should treat the host for this prison well, and that is why we are in that dialogue. But this is very difficult, because it's a choice between several good purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1092	I thank you again for the answer. It is good to hear that it is not the desire of the Council of State to implement a government plan, for here there is a local population in both Grorud and Bjerke district – both city councils have gone against them unequivocally – who may feel quite powerless about these plans, which they are aware of. They are also aware that Bredtvet is the preferred option, but they are genuinely concerned that they have not been contacted in this process. Although the Ministry and the Council of State have dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo, there is a local population here who experience state buildings being inspected in their neighbourhoods, without having been contacted or in any way involved. This is why the local population has also committed themselves and sent many hearings to the ministry, which the Council of State is sure to be aware of. My question is: how will the Council of State further ensure a good dialogue with the local population and ensure that their voice is respected in this process?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1099	If Bredtvet is a current option, I'm very keen to engage in dialogue with the population and local politicians in the districts. I have also addressed this with the City Council chairperson, but I am dealing with the City Council in Oslo and the City Council chairperson, as head of the Municipality of Oslo, in our dialogue with them. But if we go further with Bredtvet, it's quite natural to be in dialogue with them and look at how we can do this in the best possible way for the population, given that State Building and we can also take remedial action. But we haven't come there, because we haven't yet decided that Bredtvet is the current place. Until then, the resistance in Oslo has been too great. But we have to make a decision. One option is to stay in Greenland. I know that also raises a big debate, because this is an area that is in many ways the inner fillet of Oslo, and that Oslo could well imagine using for other purposes. I understand that very well. So this is just very difficult. But it's our job to make a decision. We have to do that, and we'll do that as soon as we have a basis for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1111	‘The civil majority decided, on a proposal from the government, to grant SEK 1.8 million to the Human Rights Service. The Minister of Justice writes in the draft budget: "The initiative will help to provide better knowledge of immigration and integration into the population, including knowledge of opportunities and challenges in this context." In what way does the Council of State believe that Human Rights Service contributes to a better knowledge of immigration and integration into the population?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1118	Subsidies to national resource environments in the field of immigration and integration are part of government policies. As Norway has become a multicultural society, where an increasing proportion of the population has an immigration background, knowledge and sharing in this area will also become equally important in order to ensure integration and trust in society. Freedom of expression and open debate are more important for coexistence and democracy than ever before. Under Chapter 291 of the State budget, Item 71, which is a subsidy for the integration of civil society and non-governmental organisations, there are in 2021 grants totalling EUR 153.7 million. kr. This includes named organisations with national resource status as well as different schemes where organisations can apply for funds for integration promotion. The grant for the Human Rights Service has a similar purpose and was given for many years in the same post. However, from 2019 onwards, the grant scheme was split so that the grant to HRS was specifically placed under the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. I do not agree with HRS in their comments. I also do not always agree with other organisations that receive support from the State budget. But that's not the point either. Support for HRS is not the government’s priority, but is the result of previous budgetary agreements in Stortinget, where it was agreed to also increase support to other organisations by about 17 million. kr. The solution when HRS was negotiated again in the negotiations in 2018 was a package of 16.9 million. kr, with the support of other organisations: MiRA Centre: 1.1 million. kr Born Free: 1.0 million. kr Minotenek:1.0 million. kr Melahuset: 2.0 million. kr Bergen Color Game: 1.0 million. kr Anti-racist center: 2.9 million. kr LIM: 1.3 million. kr OMOD: 2 million. kr ICAN: 0.6 million. kr Norwegian games against nuclear weapons: 2.0 million. kr Norway Peace Council: 2.0 million. kr In the management of the grant, the Ministry of Justice follows up that the HRS in its activities meets the criteria set for the scheme and the criteria are equivalent to those applicable to grants to other organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1167	This was not an answer to the question. The question was what kind of knowledge and opportunities she believes Human Rights Service is contributing to the Norwegian population. That's what she writes in the state budget. She says that this is not her priority. Well, that's her priority, for she's the one who's suggested it for the Storting and got an impact on it. There were ten questions in the budget debate to the Minister of Justice about this. She didn't answer. In the media, the Minister of Justice has not given a single oral answer; she has largely sent other departments in front of her. But the Minister of Justice has to take responsibility for what she actually does. There is a lot of human rights service that is ridiculous and stupid. That they write that Vy is Islamized because they use green uniforms is ridiculous. But when they go to named Muslims in Norway and harass them, it's not ridiculous, it's dangerous. Samfundsdebattant Sumaya Jirde Ali was compared to a cockroache. In Christmas we saw that three women got a hate stream after they had been on the family kitchens. Muslims have experienced being photographed because HRS has initiated what they have called documenting the cultural revolution. My question to the Minister of Justice is: Is there any lower limit to what the Human Rights Service should do before any impact on their State aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1180	The President notes that the expression 'laughing' has previously been cited as an inappropriate parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1185	The limits of what you can say and do in this country are in the penal code. The limits of freedom of expression are known. I think they should be, even for things I deeply disagree with, even for things I feel are offensive. So that's how we give grants to a lot of organizations, both those that we like and those that we don't like, but they all have to stay within, and that's what the penal code says. As far as I know, the Human Rights Service is not convicted of having violated that limit. That means that the space to express itself in this area, and that's this area in which they express themselves, is wide. But it's going to be up to the police, and I just have to say that we've prioritised the work against hate crime. That's a priority for the police. They're also going to report to us, so that we can be very clear about following those that go beyond these limits.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1192	I then interpret it as meaning that the Minister of Justice believes that all the statements made by the Human Rights Service are acceptable as long as they are within the limits of freedom of expression, in terms of granting state aid to them. But it's not about what's allowed to say and not say. It's never been a question. The question is whether the Minister of Justice should sponsor this organisation by 1.8 million. kr., because that's what she's actually doing. This last week we've seen what words can lead to. The storming of Congress in the United States started with words. It led to action. We know the same thing from Norway. We know that words give action. One of the Minister of Justice's predecessors, Councillor Sylvi Listhaug, had to go off after spreading conspiracy theories. The conspiracy theory thought that Kripos resulted in a threefold increase in the number of hate messages, based on the activity of the Minister of Justice. Now the Minister of Justice says that there is no limit to what Human Rights Service can do until it has consequences for their state aid. My question to the Minister of Justice is: does she entirely disagree with the fact that state aid to the Human Rights Service gives the words they come with, more power and legitimacy, and is she then willing to take that responsibility in the political debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1203	I perceive that the representative agrees with me that I am not being deleted, and views that I am being deleted do not have. I have not said that there is no limit. On the contrary, I have said that there is a limit. And I don't know how the representative feels, but it's not like we're just giving grants to organisations that we like, that we like, that we support, that we think are acceptable. We also support what we don't think is acceptable, what we don't support, and what we can even experience as offensive. We have rules for freedom of expression. We're going to follow that rule carefully. The police shall do so; the prosecution authority shall do so. Then, of course, there are limits to what should be on the state budget. I now explained that this was a priority for one of the four parties that negotiated a budget. We negotiated other increases to organisations that we prioritised. That agreement we stood firm in this year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1213	Question 7, from the representative Sylvi Listhaug to the Minister for Justice and Security, has been transferred to the Minister for Health and Welfare who is directing him, and the question will be raised by the representative Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1218	‘The Minister of Justice, according to the media, has stated that ‘We want everyone who comes to test on the border and are therefore working to strengthen the testing capacity. The aim is that there should be mandatory testing at the limits of visibility. This means that the 24-hour rule is removed and everyone is to be tested immediately». Can the Council of State explain when this should be in place and what is meant by ‘in the long term’?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1225	The government has now introduced mandatory testing at the border of persons who have resided in a quarantined area. This requirement was introduced on Monday 18 January at. 5:00. This means that persons can no longer choose to pass test stations at aerodromes, ports or border crossing points on the road and rather test themselves in the home municipality. At Svinesund, it will take a few more days before the test capacity is good enough to allow everyone to test themselves at this border crossing. Therefore, a temporary derogation has been granted stating that persons with a fixed stay in Norway can test themselves elsewhere than at the border crossing point as soon as possible and at the latest within 24 hours if the waiting time for a test at the border crossing point is more than one hour. This derogation will be lifted as soon as the testing capacity is good enough in Svinesund. The background to the government’s decision to test the border is that until recently, the Health Directorate’s clear advice to the government has been to give priority to testing capacity to shut down local outbreaks in Norway. There are mainly two reasons why the situation has now changed and that the Health Directorate is now recommending testing at the border. One reason is the desire to delay the spread of the more contagious variants of the virus as much as possible. The second reason is the availability of rapid tests. They make it possible to scale up the testing at the border without so much affecting our ability to eliminate local outbreaks in Norway. This has been extremely demanding for the municipalities that are affected, and there are still challenges with the establishment of test capacity at some of our smaller border stations, especially in the north, which are now working very hard to solve, but the legislation was implemented at 1 p.m. 5:00 Monday.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1236	I am in agreement that it has been adopted. What's perhaps a little bit more interesting is when it's practiced, and when it's practiced at all of the cross-border crossings. What I'm looking for, and I realized that the Minister of Health really didn't respond to, is when you calculate that we have this in place at all the border crossings, and when you can say that you fulfill the intention that is communicated. Because, as the Council of State is obviously aware, when you experience significant interference in personal freedom, you comply with rules and recommendations that are of great importance to most people and that affect our lives, it's quite provocative for some to see that you haven't prioritised the crossings high enough, that you don't have full testing at the border crossings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1241	I feel that this is going well in the most important places where people now come to Norway, with the exception of Svinesund, where one has a temporary derogation for residents of Norway and whose waiting time is more than one hour. There, Halden Municipality has now received assistance from the Defence Department, so a number of defence personnel are now being deployed to assist, in order to raise the capacity there. So we hope that exception won't apply for a very long time. Then we have challenges with the establishment of test facilities in Kautokeino, Karasjok, Røros, Tana and Rana, because these are demanding limits with few passages, but where it is far from the municipal centre and relatively small municipalities. But this is working very well, and some of the test offers might be limited to a few hours. But that means that those people who have exemptions from testing, for example: long-distance transport, goods, etc., may cross the border as long as it is manned. And then we've had to close a lot of limits in order to be able to operate on this at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1254	To the point of closing a boundary: it's important that those boundaries are really closed physically, and that you're not just showing it with a sign, because that's actually just how you can actually prevent it. Not everyone is concerned with decisions in Stortinget and the government when you come to Norwegian border crossings. Then I hope you use the resources you actually have. Let me boast of the Civil Protection Agency, which has 8 000 civil servants that can be used in this context, and which can obviously be a resource that you can put into the limit of testing. I hope you use all the available resources that we actually have. The progress party has worked for this for a very long time; we have wanted to have testing on the border for a very long time. Now the government is following. But I want to know a date: when can we say that we have real testing on all border crossings and fulfil that decision and the intentions that we have based?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1261	The date was January 18th, at 6 p.m. 5:00. That was when testing at the border was introduced as an obligation. And then I've mentioned those places where we still have challenges, and which work well to solve. In this context, I am very grateful for the help we receive from both the Home Office, the Defence Agency and the Civil Protection Agency in terms of health and, of course, the justice sector's needs. There I see that it works well. But it has to be said that this is demanding, because it is very much. For example, health professionals agree to have a test offer at a limit where there are very few daily passages. We also need to find the right balance in this, especially since some of the boundaries are in municipalities that have already limited health professionals, and that are very stressed with work now. So we're trying to help with e.g. with health professionals from the national pool. I would also like to remind you that those who are in the Civil Defense Department are not going free, they are in other jobs, so it has a consequence of mobilising the Civil Defense Department.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1271	‘The Grand Duchy has decided that the maternity ward of the hospital in Kristiansund shall be maintained until the maternity ward of the new joint hospital of North Moravia and Romesdal is in operation. Will the Council of State ensure that the will of the Storting is realized by the board of health companies?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1278	During the treatment of the National Health and Hospital Plan by the Storting, a decision was taken asking the government to ensure that the Kristiansund maternity ward is in place until the maternity ward of the new Hjelset hospital is in operation. This was also communicated by me at the business meeting on 10 June last year. The business meeting then asked that Health Mid-Norway follow up the decision and that the decision should normally also be assessed against the requirement of proper operation. The need for soundness of service is very important, and I was also aware of this in my early communication with the Stortinget on this topic. Since the autumn of 2020, there has been an alternating operation between the two hospitals as a temporary alternative operating model. This had the background to an unfortunately high workload and recruitment challenges. Following long-standing challenges in recruiting adequate professional skills and ensuring a fair offer to patients, the management of Health More and Romesdal has recently decided that they temporarily have to collect the food supply in the North Sea and Romesdal and add it to the Molde hospital. This is the responsibility and assessments that have to be done by the responsible management locally. The hospital has major recruitment challenges and real challenges: temporary employment is high, the workload on employees has been and is high, and the offer must be safe and sound for the sake of the women to be born. I have asked for a statement from Health Mid-Norway on the matter. It shows the major challenges facing the provision of food in the two hospitals and acknowledges the seriousness of the fact that management does not consider it appropriate to maintain two food offerings in the coming period. It is regrettable that you now have to do this type of grip for a period that involves a temporary collection of the food supply, and I have a great understanding that there is a strong commitment around this matter. At the same time, I must remind you that the health business is subject to requirements for the provision of services, and it is important to ensure that patients are offered safe and predictable. I would like to emphasise again that the change that will be implemented is intended to be temporary, and I believe, of course, that the health company is striving to recruit sufficient personnel and find good solutions for those affected by the conversion. Additional measures have also been put in place for birthers with a journey of more than 90 minutes to the nearest hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1297	Thanks for the answer. The council says that the executive management has decided that the maternity ward should be shut down, but from what I know, the managing director has said this, so I would like the council to confirm that there has actually been something the board of directors has decided on, because that's new information for me. In the 2014 ROS analysis that led to the interim phase, warn against a recruitment crisis if a plan to shut down the department before the new hospital was in place. So one just did that. Managing Director Bakke stated in the Claims of Time today that it has historically not been done enough to recruit in some disciplines. My question is: will the Council of State come with the same admission, and will the Council of State take responsibility for the additional recruitment failure that has occurred?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1308	I have no reason to doubt the local management's description of the situation. I also feel that they have really worked hard to follow up the Storting decision. It is important that someone from both the health region and the health company work to follow up the decisions of Stortinget and the assignments they receive from me. However, it is also important that the loyalty to those decisions is not so strong that it is at the expense of the responsibility of local management to assess soundness. I believe the representative agrees with me that patient safety and quality in the Norwegian healthcare system depend very much on the local management feeling that they can accept the properness of the offer that is available at any time, and that the responsibility cannot be placed elsewhere. Then there's probably a lot of different explanations of why you've come into this situation. I don't think there's a single answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1315	I would like to ask again whether it is such that the Board of Health has taken a decision on this, for the stated Council of State in its statement, and that is new information for me. The size – at least the Center Party – was of course stated when we made a decision that the professional should be in order, as for all other decisions, and I thought it was a disclaimer from the Council of State when only a reference was made to the health service. When the managing director admits that it has not been done enough, I think the council must also take responsibility for a now having come in the situation in Health More and Romesdal, and in Kristiansund in particular, where one is in a major recruitment crisis. There are many other food departments in Norway that are smaller, that have a smaller population area, that are doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1320	Firstly, if I have said that it is the government of Health More and Romesdal who have made this decision, that is not the information I have. It is the management of Health More and Romesdal who have decided this, as I see it. It will be the board meeting in Health More and Romesdal tomorrow linked, inter alia, to: the construction business, but at least that's the information I have. The way in which the board has been involved, I can't answer right now. When it comes to what has led to that one being in this situation, I think it's complex. It may well be, as the director says – and I have no reason not to trust – that he also sees that things could have been done earlier, from the previous management, which could have prevented one from ending up in this situation. But I have difficult assumptions to make myself an overestimator of. There I just have to trust the assessment made by the local management.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1330	‘The food department of the hospital in Kristiansund has been subjected to a gradual and long-term counter-measure. However, in May 2020, the Stortinget decided that the government will ensure that the Kristiansund maternity ward is in place until the maternity ward of the new hospital is in operation. Now the health company has decided that everyone who is going to be born in the North Moravia must travel to Molde. Is it the Storting or Health Business that decides whether a maternity ward should be closed and what role has the Minister of Health played in this decision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1337	As I explained in the answer to the previous question, Health Møre and Romsdal have recently decided that for a temporary period they will have to collect the food supply in Northern Ireland and Romesdal at the hospital in Molde. This takes place after long-standing challenges of recruiting adequate professional skills and ensuring a sound offer to patients. The decision of the Storting, taken during the treatment of the National Health and Hospital Plan, to ensure that the maternity ward in Kristiansund is in place until the maternity ward of the new Health Hospital is in operation, is clearly communicated to the head of the board of Health Mid-Norway. As I have been very clear on several occasions – as shown by that business meeting – the decision must also be assessed against the requirement of proper operation in the usual way. It is essential to ensure good and safe supply to patients. The statement I received from Health Mid-Norway shows that the management of the health company no longer finds it professionally sound to maintain two food offers. The workload is perceived as too high and the company does not have sufficient and robust staff in place. The inter-food supply solution between the two hospitals is proving difficult to continue. It is the health undertaking that is responsible for assessing and ensuring the proper provision of services in hospitals. The Specialist Health Service Act § 2-2 provides that «health services offered or provided under this Act shall be sound». Furthermore, the specialist health service shall ‘facilitate its services so that staff performing the services are able to comply with their statutory obligations and to provide a comprehensive and coordinated service to the individual patient or user.’;» Furthermore, the fourth paragraph of Section 2-1a of the Specialist Health Service Act provides that ‘the responsibilities of regional health establishments’ for the provision of specialist health services ‘consist of an obligation to plan, implement, evaluate and correct the activities in such a way that the scope and content of the services comply with the requirements laid down by law, regulation or administrative action’. Therefore, both the health undertaking and the regional health establishments must establish the establishment in such a way that it is sound. A decision in Stortinget does not lift this statutory responsibility, for this responsibility is also the responsibility of Stortinget. I have been informed that there are and have been major challenges in recruiting sufficient personnel and ensuring proper operation with a two-part solution. Despite the good and important intentions underlying the Storting decision, in the current situation, it would be unwise, in my opinion, to review assessments of the soundness of the local management in cooperation with the employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1356	Recruitment problems could and may be addressed by the health business. Today's Class Battle says that doctors, midwives, child nurses and nurses in the food and gynaecological department in Kristiansund in 2019 declared distrust of the clinic manager Henrik Erdal and the head of department Janita Skogeng, stating that these leaders lied about the quality and conditions of the food department in order to stop the offer. After that, the health company has promoted these two leaders – perhaps not the best way to ensure the recruitment of professionals in Kristiansund. The thing is, here Health More and Romesdal haven't done their job. They have not taken action that could ensure recruitment. Does Höie believe it is right and fair that pregnant women in Northern Ireland, who now get up to three hours' journey when they are going to give birth, pay the price because the health care company has not done its job and followed up the Storting decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1365	I have no reason to doubt what the management of Health Møre and Romesdal and Health Mid-Norway say about their efforts to succeed in fulfilling the decision of the Stortinge. Health Møre and Romsdal have proclaimed midwifery positions in Molde and Kristiansund. They have gone widely with advertising, both targeted advertisements and campaigns, targeting gynecologists and midwives in both Norway, the Nordic countries and Europe. They have engaged the recruitment company to look for current candidates. They have been in contact with gynecologists in several hospitals asking if they know someone who wants to apply for a job. They have also placed great emphasis on recruiting in their own ranks by offering good conditions to LIS doctors and providing further training to nurses in midwifery training. They will continue to publish jobs nationally and internationally, and temporary workers have also been brought in to meet the needs in the short term. They have succeeded in some of the recruitments, but they have also been in a situation where they have had natural departures, so that some of the recruitments they have succeeded in replacing people who have stopped.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1372	The council says there is no reason to doubt what management says. I'll give you one reason: that's what employees say. In other words, a distrust statement by doctors, midwives, child nurses and nurses aimed at two leaders – promoted by the health company, as a sort of reward for having been mistrusted by the hospital staff – may not be the best way to recruit people to the hospital. I would like to make a clear comment on that by the Council of State. In addition, there was no recruitment crisis in March 2019 when the entity wanted to shut down the maternity ward. This has occurred since. There has been a long wish from management to shut down the department. The size has intervened, made clear decisions, and then the company has not done its job afterwards, but on the contrary promoted two leaders who have thus been mistrusted. Does Höie see that something can be done differently in the future to ensure recruitment, rather than undermining the Storting's clear decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1379	I have to admit that I experience, at least in the reporting I get, the cooperation between management and employees in a different way. From 5 October 2020, Molde Hospital and Kristiansund Hospital have changed every 14 days to have the maternity ward open. The background to the company’s transition to this operation was high medical vigilance due to lack of gynecologists and management’s need to change and adapt the watch plan to real work. The previous candidate for trust of the Norwegian Medical Association also put the foot down for this watch regime. In addition, two unexpected child deaths occurred in the spring of the same year, in which the entity’s internal event analysis, among others, occurred. pointed to excessive medical workload. It is also the case that the period of alternation has resulted in a major breach of the Working Environment Act and, in addition, the enterprise has not been adequately equipped with gynecologists to ensure adequate staffing in the medical group. So these are big challenges for employees too.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1392	‘Kristiansund and Molde hospitals are in a very demanding situation to ensure recruitment and professional competence until new hospitals can be put into service. Does the health undertaking’s management have plans and professional resources to carry out this conversion in a professionally sound manner?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1399	The representative Lundtigen correctly points out that there are challenging aspects to the operation of the hospitals in the North Moravia and Romesdal. It is difficult to ensure good recruitment and professional competence until the new hospital is completed. This is also at the heart of the previous questions. Lack of access to specialised health professionals forces one to look at how an organisation organises services in order to maintain a healthy health service provision for the population. Health Mid-Norway has informed me that Health Møre and Romsdal have challenges with recruitment in several disciplines. It has, of course, been important to bet on employees who live or want to live in the county, for this is the best way to ensure stable access to health professionals. The health company has previously recognised that they have not been good enough for forward-looking recruitment in some disciplines. They have therefore worked actively over the last few years to change this. The health company is now also working on recruiting in its own ranks, for example. to provide doctors with good conditions in specialisation and by providing scholarships to nurses wishing to take part in midwife training. In addition, only 100 pst.- midwife positions are published to make it as attractive as possible. The management of the health business has chosen to strengthen local recruitment and has external involvement to assist in more active recruitment. The health enterprise announces jobs both nationally and internationally and collects temporary workers to meet the short-term needs. Over the last year, the health business has succeeded in recruiting some more critical health professionals, but unfortunately this is not enough. Plans for the development of a new hospital have been under way for a long time in North Moravia and Romesdal. The health entity will face a long period of transition challenges. Comprehensive plans are being worked out for different disciplines, and there is a expectation that a more strengthened professional environment with good vigilance will help to improve recruitment. My impression is that Health Møre and Romsdal are now working both systematically and intensively with recruitment. It is nevertheless a fact that there is a shortage of specialists, both gynecologists and midwives. This is well documented, also in the National Audit Office's report of 2019 on manning challenges in health companies. The same can be seen from the Health Directorate's report last year, Change in the food population and impact on staff and funding systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1415	I thank you for your answer. Governments say there are recruitment problems in several disciplines, and it is incredibly important to be aware of this. It's not just food. The Council of State says that the plans that management has, and the professional resources that they have, are in order, and I also understand that the economic resources are in order. So then we're facing a problem, because the description of the council here is in sharp contrast to the fact of the matter. Because there is an alert manning crisis – which has been addressed in ROS analyses and in many ways – that has led to today’s situation. It is quite interesting when the Council of State says that the loyalty to the decision making process cannot be so strong that professional requirements cannot be met. If this is the case – and at the same time that the situation in Stortinget is such that both the main spokeswoman of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre want the Stortinget to follow up – then the decision must be revised. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1424	The decision has been followed up in a proper manner, which is a clear task for the health region. But I chose, precisely because I was concerned that this situation might arise, even when the Storting made the decision, to inform and clarify to the Stortinget that Stortinget has also adopted a law that obliges local management to assess the soundness of the offer. It is important that the local health management does not experience that when the Storting decides that offers should be maintained – as the Storting is absolutely free to do, and as it is my responsibility to follow up – it means that a lower threshold of soundness. I do not believe that Storting's intention was either. Then it is the local management who are the most suitable people to make that assessment, but it is also those who have to be in the situation, and have to make the difficult decisions, if they believe that an offer is no longer sound.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1429	I would like to stress that the Centre Party has always and in all cases insisted that it should be professionally sound. What the Council of State says now is that the enterprise has correctly followed up the decision of the Storting. People in Mora and Romesdal must notice that. For then my question is: Has the government office in the department or political management of the state council Höie been consulted in writing, or orally, before the birth department was decided by the managing director Bakke?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1434	Of course, we have been regularly briefed, in the meetings we have with Health Mid-Norway, on the challenges you face in this situation. I have always had a very clear impression that management has worked hard to comply with Storting's decision. We've been constantly informed about that. Then Health Mid-Norway was informed for week 2 that management had come to the stage that they now thought this was no longer possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1442	‘6. In January 2021 it was found that the Health Directorate is now changing the measurement method for response time in the ambulance service. Instead of measuring whether the response times are met in 90 per cent of the calls at municipal level, it should be reported whether the response times are met in half of the calls. We will thus gain less knowledge of differences in response time between central and peripheral strokes, and the response time can be artificially low in those areas where ambulance preparedness is already the worst. At the same time, several health businesses in the country are considering or planning to cut ambulance preparedness in scattered areas. How will the Council of State ensure that residents of district municipalities in Hedmark have a good ambulance offer in view of this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1449	In the 1999 General Emergency Response Notice, the proposed response time requirements from NOU 1998 were: 9, ‘In case of urgency’, provided guidance. The goal of the emergency summit is 90 pst. the population shall be reached by ambulances within 12 minutes in cities and within 25 minutes in pig-grown areas. In 2016, the Health Directorate published a national quality indicator showing the proportion of acute incidents where the ambulance is progressing within the indicative response times. A lot of criticism has been expressed about the way the indicator is produced, and therefore the indicator is now under review. I refer to my answer to written question 906, which describes the proposed changes. The short version is that the Health Directorate proposes to show the median response time instead of 90 percentiles. The reason is that 90 percentile is not suitable for small data sets, and that small variations give large random results. According to the Health Directorate, it is therefore inappropriate to use this requirement at municipal level. I would like to stress that these are still the indicative objectives of the emergency message, St.meld. No 43 for the period 1999–2000, ‘On emergency medical preparedness’, which applies. The proposed changes of the Health Directorate are not about lowering the requirements for ambulance preparedness, but about setting up the indicator in a more appropriate way to respond to the criticism that has been of the indicators. The proposal is now being consulted, and one will then come up with the different points of view. The representative, Enger Mehl, asks how I want to ensure that residents of district municipalities in Hedmark have a good ambulance offer. It is Hospital Inland that is responsible for the ambulance service of the population. The hospital has a decentralised ambulance service consisting of 42 ambulances in 42 municipalities, as well as patient transport cars and air ambulance services. The emergency response was reinforced in 2019 by the establishment of an anaesthetic-manned play car in Moelv and the planned new helicopter base for the Inland. I believe that the best way to ensure that citizens have a good offer is for municipalities and healthcare companies to cooperate on this. This is the background for a joint review of emergency medical services by health enterprises and communities in the health community. It is about finding good solutions, providing available services and dimensioning the service to meet future developments. That's good for patients and good use of our shared resources. I would also like to stress that we have a good and decentralised ambulance service in Norway, and that is what we need in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1466	Governments argue that the measurement method needs to be changed because current measurement methods can give random results because there are small data bases and that it is therefore wrong to measure the average per municipality. But if you look at the figures for the ambulance response time in Hedmark in 2017, which is the last time it was measured at municipal level, there are only three municipalities where the target is reached. Only three of the municipalities in Hedmark meet the response time target, and it cannot be explained by random results. In Folldal, e.g., the ambulance came on average after 48 minutes, in Rendalen on average after 49 minutes, in Trysil after 39 minutes, in Tynset after 34 minutes, in Åsnet after 31 minutes and in Åsnes after 31 minutes. Nor in built-up municipalities when required. How should numbers taking away the mean at the municipality level show us how the response time gets better in Folldal, for example, or in Rendalen?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1471	This proposal is now being consulted, so the type of objection raised by the representative here will be considered in this context, if appropriate. The information provided by the Directorate for Health is that, following their proposal, the results of the national quality indicators will be published in the various areas of emergency medicine. Then there will be a distinction between densely built strokes, i.e. areas with at least 10,000 inhabitants, and pig-grown strokes. And the indicator will then show the proportion of acute incidents in built-in strokes, where the ambulance is due to arrive within 12 minutes, and the proportion of acute incidents in pig-grown strokes, where the ambulance is due to arrive within 25 minutes. It is one of the challenges of today's measurement unit, which is the municipalities, that one could have both densely built strips and pig-grown strips within the same municipality, and that one might not be able to discover the differences between them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1478	It may be municipalities that have both densely built strips and pig-grown strips, but the fact is that in most municipalities in Hedmark you do not have the response time requirement for pig-grown strips – i.e. 25 minutes, which is the highest requirement you should be able to accept. You can't reach it in a lot of municipalities in Hedmark, based on the last numbers we have. I think it is critical that the government does not distance itself from such a proposal that has now come. It has not been adopted. The Council of State says it should be consulted. But it's a classic way to centralize, where – instead of saying that there's a big problem here with the response time, that we have to tighten up the offer if there's no security for the population – you say that you have to change the measurement method, so you actually hide the figures that show that the state of the ambulance service is too bad. If I have understood correctly, he will not take away the possibility of losing sight of the situation with the ambulance service in the municipalities. Or did I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1485	I am concerned that one should see this as best as possible. That's why I, as the State Council, have followed up the NOU's proposal to do this as a national quality indicator. It is just to have it as a national quality indicator that is important for us to be sure that we have good services and that we can improve services, because knowledge of services is what enables us to improve them. But there's something else than saying that any change in the way we measure this is wrong. To give an example: in North Norway we want municipalities that are very large, which have quite large cities and densely built areas in the Nordic context, but which also have difficult areas that are pig-grown. Is it true that one defines e.g. the municipality to have very good ambulance preparedness, when it's really just about those who live in the municipality center, but not about those who live in the districts of that municipality? That's the challenge of today's measurement method. I am concerned that the measurement methods should be the best possible, precisely in order to achieve what the representative calls for – both to maintain and strengthen a well-decentralised offer in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1495	‘Corona unemployment has hit young people hard. NAV figures show that on 12 January 70 000 under 40 years of age were completely unemployed. A corona framed labour market has narrowed the door to work for many young people. There is reason to be concerned about the long-term consequences of high levels of unemployment among young people. What does the government do to prevent young people from staying out of work and getting a permanent weak link with the labour market even after the infectious diseases measures are gone?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1502	There is no doubt that the Norwegian economy and working life are still strongly influenced by the coronary crisis. Although activity has taken up since last year, and unemployment has fallen slightly, unemployment is about twice as high as in the period before the pandemic hit Norway, and otherwise much higher than in previous crises in the near past, such as the financial crisis, the oil crisis, etc. I fully agree with the representative, namely the concern for young people who have become unemployed in the context of the coronary apathy, also because we see that many of those who have now lost their jobs or have been put on leave have shorter education, many may have just got a foot in the working life, many are just young and have therefore come in last time, but only when a business needs to be reduced. We also know that deep and long economic recessions can have negative consequences for young people, especially for young people who also have health challenges. I'll say a little about what measures we have in 2020 and 2021. There are extensive measures to improve the situation of young people who are out of work and education. In the context of the State budget, we decided to increase the allocation of labour market measures by 825 million. kr. There is an increased investment that helps more people get to work faster, and that prevents them from getting laid at a high level. It also gives room to strengthen the youth effort of Nav, as this government has put it. Important instruments in this youth initiative are training, digital follow-up, summer job provision and work training combined with mentoring and inclusion grants. We have also increased the allocation of individual job support, IPS, by 50 million. NOK 2021. It should contribute to the integration of more people with mental or drug problems into working life. There will also be an experiment with IPS to get more young people out of work. It is also important to bear in mind that outside my ministry's budget, it is allocated about 2.5 billion. to education and competence in 2020 to extend the capacity and flexibility of the entire education system. The point is simply to give young people and the unemployed, or others for that matter, the opportunity to build up skills during the economic crisis. To take a very simple example: if you got a job but were not able to complete the letter, it should now be the time when you should be able to start again and complete the letter in a simple and good way. The overall effort will provide many young people with opportunities to complete an education, which we know strengthens their relationship with the labour market and increases their chances of getting a job. So it's important to finally say that the situation is very inconclusive. We don't know how long that will take. The only thing we know is that the unemployment situation, that is, the high unemployment rate, will last after the last vaccine is set. So what we have to do is always to see if we need new tools to deal with the economic corona crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1517	Unseemly is a good crossroads from the Council of State, because when we have previously asked about how many people are just being educated on daily pay, the Council of State has not answered that question. Just the tool that's supposed to help us in the fight against unemployment, Nav, has been cut this year. With a pen stroke during the negotiations between the government parties and the Progress Party, the so-called red tape was increased from 0.5 to 0.6 pst. - in a time when we have a major unemployment crisis. The councils were involved in youth action, and then I wonder, in the case of young people under 30 years of age, who, after eight weeks of unemployment, will have individualised work-oriented follow-up and a close-up hub, is it such that the Council of State has an overview that youth action is being followed up? Is young follow-up after eight weeks?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1526	I have to comment on three things. First, youth action: a recent evaluation of the very good performance of young people came, not least in the context of faster follow-up. We're concerned that we're not just going to initiate measures that look good on paper, but actually follow them up, so we see that it helps the young people who need it. Then I have to comment briefly on two other claims that the representative made on his question. One is that we don't have an overview of how many people are taking education. That's absolutely right, but there's a very clear reason for that. That's where we all used to ask to report to Nav – in a rigid and bureaucratic way – we said when the Korona crisis happened: we can't do this now. Now they're going to be allowed to take whatever education they want, and then they're not going to report to Nav. Then we sacrificed some of our control and the ability to count, but that was absolutely necessary and correct. We have to go back to a system now where we get it registered, but it was right to do it. So it's a little bit special to produce a budget increase of almost 500 million. kr in addition to the common to Nav as a cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1537	I did not get an answer to the question. Do all young people receive Nav after eight weeks of follow-up by either job-oriented measures or training measures? Is it that way that you have that overview, or are you in the blind here as well? I would also like to stress that there are several municipalities that already before the coronary crisis had a low proportion of employees. My municipality, Sarpsborg, is one of them. Then we also know that the government expert group has pointed out that if an increase in unemployment is 1 pst. in the current year, it could correspond to a sustained reduction in the employment rate of 0,2 pst. Then I wonder: What is the government going to do for just such municipalities as my municipality to make sure that no more are left standing on the outside?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1546	First of all, with the youth effort: I would like to send over the concrete figures from the report, which is otherwise available to the public, as far as I know, you can see how it has gone. Sarpsborg is quite like my municipality of residence, Porsgrund. Sarpsborg may have even a little more social challenges on some of the indicators we use, and it's quite classic for some heavy industrial municipalities. Then it must be said that Nav can and must do a lot here, but as a politician I would have said that the most important place to start is long before some ports in the Nav office. The most important place to start is to make sure that you don't give people a handicap by not having a proper school, making sure they have a kindergarten that is not just play and fun, which is incredibly important, but also rustling for life. School outcomes are closely related to high school dropouts, high school dropouts are closely related to the chance of entering the labour market — thus increasing the chance of getting in if you don’t fall off, and the chance of falling off from the rise if you have poor school skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1558	‘The financial supervision has laid down minimum own funds and convertible liabilities for six banks on 14 December 2020. Financial supervision warns that several banks will be required during the year. Has an analysis been made of the regional policy implications of changes in capital requirements and convertible liabilities by the Financial Supervisory Authority and, where appropriate, what impact will this change have on district housing?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1565	Thank you for the question. It may seem that the representative has come to confuse two different issues that both came from the Financial Supervisory Authority in December. I would therefore like to explain both of them. The first case concerns the establishment of minimum requirements of the Financial Supervision on 14 December and the requirements for own funds and convertible liabilities of six banks. This is a follow-up to Stortinget’s Law Decision of March 2018 on a new regulatory framework for bank crisis management, which entered into force on 1 January 2019. The regulatory framework includes, inter alia: the individual bank must have a plan for restoring the financial position of the bank in the event of deterioration. Furthermore, the Financial Supervisory Authority shall have contingency plans for each bank for use in more severe crises. Under the law, financial supervision shall establish a minimum amount of the sum of the bank's equity and so-called convertible liabilities, i.e.: liabilities that can be converted into equity fairly quickly and easily. All banks which are in the public interest to face a crisis shall receive such a requirement from the Financial Supervisory Authority. In Norway, the Financial Supervisory Authority has assessed that most banks are important for the Norwegian economy and the local markets served by banks. The purpose of the supervision is therefore to establish such requirements for most Norwegian banks. The representative also asks about the impact on housing construction in the districts, and I assume that she is thinking about the Finansinspektionen’s circular on so-called high-risk loans, which came in December, which deals with the interpretation of EU legislation. It's a little different. Possible impacts on housing have been a central theme of the public debate on this circular. The finance minister has recently answered two written questions from Stortinget on the matter, no. 813 and No 813 901. The Minister of Finance there explains that he has asked the Financial Supervision to review the comments made by the financial industry on this circular and, if necessary, also to obtain further information from and keep in touch with the industries and to look at the possibilities for nuance of the application of the relevant rules. A well-functioning housing market and housing planning in District Norway are high on my agenda. Dwelling in districts is important to provide the population with suitable housing throughout their lives and to facilitate the movement of labour needed in both the private and public sectors. I am concerned that the framework conditions for banks facilitate housing in the districts. I would therefore like to have a close dialogue with the Minister of Finance, so that the interpretation of the relevant legislation that the representative addresses does not cause unnecessary constraints for the banks.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1580	The changes have a major impact on housing, workplaces and community construction, and we are seriously concerned, says the local bank, the housing community and local politicians in cross-border cooperation with a local authority in Northern Ireland. We can borrow less, some loans can be more expensive, and we can't compete on equal terms. There will be customers who end up waiting in the queue to get a loan, they say to the newspaper. In the worst case, we may have to scrape projects because they are not feasible, says the director of the Ofoten Mid-Trom housing team. They are also concerned about jobs and population development. With what the Council of State says, the government is not as sloppy as the head of the Financial Supervisory Authority, who says that there is no room for interpretation or change. As I hear the Council of State, she is open to ensuring changes, so that it does not disproportionately affect small and medium-sized savings banks.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1591	As Minister of State, I am very pleased that the government of the Minister of Finance was on the road quickly and, after a week, asked the supervision to go a new round to respond in particular to comments from industry, savings banks and finance Norway to the extent that it is necessary and appropriate to obtain other information. I also see that the Minister of Finance has blackened Stortinget that he assumes that the Financial Supervisory Authority is now reviewing the industry's comments on the circular, and that they are looking at the possibilities to nuance the application of the legislation. I am aware that there is a dialogue between the Financial Supervisory Authority and the banking industry in line with the government's call, and I hope that this case will find a solution that does not significantly impair the banks' ability to finance housing projects throughout the country and not least in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1596	Every time Ofoten Mid-Trom's Housing Layers or other builders start a housing project to be resold to others, e.g. a housing block, it is now referred to as speculative financing of real estate. So this is going to be 150 pst risk weight. Usually, dwelling developers sell a certain number of apartments in a housing project before they start debt financing of the building, and it can often be around 60 pst. of the apartments. The remaining 40 pst. sold during construction or put out for sale when the housing project is completed. Now it no longer holds for the Financial Supervisory Authority. Not even 100 pst. sales are good enough. The new requirement is that the project must be completed and have a certificate of completion before the high-risk stamp with the formulation of speculative financing is removed. What does the Council of State think about the inequality of those builders who have to sell 60 pst? of the apartments before the start, and those that now have to sell 100 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1603	It is often the practice of the housing laws today that 60 pst. of the dwellings sold before the spade is injected into the ground. As I said, I am pleased that the Minister of Finance was on the job so quickly and asked the supervision to take a new look, and that there is now a dialogue between the supervision and the banking industry in line with that call. I'm very happy about that. In Norway, we already have a good code, so to the extent that it is possible to find a solution that will not significantly weaken the banks' ability to finance housing projects in the districts, we will be very pleased about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1613	‘A recent publication of findings from the Joint Organisation of the Order on the well-being of the members of the Defence Committee has been published. [[BFO]] According to the investigation, only about eight percent of them will be added to the defense today. The state of ownership, construction and construction is critically poor in several places. If things don't get any better soon, the defense will both lose important skills and become less attractive as a job. What do the state councils think about finding out from BFO's investigation, and what does he want to do with the situation?'
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1620	I first want to comment on the study itself a little bit. It went to approx. 200 persons employed in the Defence. It is as follows: What kind of defense are you in? Which BFO local association do you belong to? Is there only one thing that is not in order where you work and/or live? You answered no to the previous question. Can you describe what does not work where you work and/or live? You answered yes to the previous question. So good, then you are well cared for by the employer. Congratulations! And then it comes: How likely is it that you recommend the defense as a workplace to friends or acquaintances, on a scale from 1 to 10? And how likely is it that you're working in Defense out 2021, on a scale from 1 to 10? So this is such a trendy survey that I find it hard to think I've ever seen anything like this before. I'm very concerned about giving legitimacy to this investigation. It's a piece of cake. It's actually a lot of associations we characterize as sects, which have a lot more freedom for personal opinions than what BFO sets as standard here. So until that question comes up, because it's very important: well-being among our employees and guardians has a high priority in defence. It's the head of defense and I'm busy. The defence conducts annual investigations of the defence personnel. The studies have shown over several years that there is a high level of job satisfaction in Defence. In the last employee survey, 73 pst. by the defence staff told their friends that the defence is a good organisation to work in. More than eight out of ten soldiers serving first-time service stated that they enjoyed well or very well. That the defence has a good reputation in society is clearly illustrated by the high numbers of applicants we have for the defence education. At the same time, I am concerned with all the input from the employee organisations, and I am concerned about taking them seriously – also criticising the state of housing in the Defence. That housing conditions are not satisfactory in some places is known for Defence Building, Defence and Defence Ministry. Projects are therefore ongoing and planned both in lay-offs and in dwellings. The situation will get better, but this will take some time. The temperature measurement by BFO also mentions the load on personnel at, inter alia. high absence due to necessary training and continuing training. Defence employee surveys also show a high pace of work and uneven workload, so that work has accumulated. This is something the defense follows up to improve. During the coming long-term planning period, we have committed to strengthening defence personnel, and more flexible manning concepts will be developed to increase the availability of skills and reduce these burdens. I am very pleased that employee organisations are also involved in the everyday lives of employees, but the tool you choose must, as I said, be allowed to be critical of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1651	I thank you for your answer. BFO is not the only one that has a question mark for the specific bow aspect of the defense. The trust electoral system in Defence, TVO, has also had an investigation among its trustees. The focus has been on identifying the deviations where the solar data contained in the first-time service behaves the most. It's the barracks, welfare buildings and sports buildings. The trust default scheme in Defence responds to the fact that there is no overview of the rental in Defence in this area. In connection with the long-term plan for the defence, the central party suggested that such an overview be created, so that each of them could be better placed to invest, both prioritized and white. Why does the government refuse to help create such an overview?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1658	The most important thing is not to refuse to participate in such an overview. There is an initial overview of it, but often it can be as important to distribute information as to collect and have information. I have told you that the Trust Selection System will participate in the rounds you go to monitor the state of EBA, property, construction and civil engineering, in the Defence. I think that's a good arrangement, both to clarify the expectations and needs of those under protection, and because the position commanders, the Defence and Defence Agency are given the opportunity to deliver first-hand knowledge of the state of defence. There is a lot to complain about, but there is also a significant job to get things better. Getting involved also in the Trust Selection Scheme and the guardians in both the screening work and pointing the way forward, I think it is important in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1663	I thank you again for your answer. Defence construction has maintained that it is a maintenance run. The defense has also maintained that a non-captive overview of what needs to be done in total. We're in a special situation. It's coronary apathy, which plagues both the defense and society otherwise. It was just announced that the entire crew of the frigate KNM “Fridtjof Nansen” is in quarantine – it is probably 130-150 people – because one crew member is infected. In the north is a concern both because one has to accept many thousands of foreign soldiers, and for what happens if those in the first-time service are infected. Can the Council of State ensure that, when it comes to both those coming to the country, and not least to those entering the first-time service, there are sufficient facilities for a person to remain infective if they are to be infected by the Korona?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1672	This is a disturbance I've known since March 12. We were long in doubt whether it was possible to bring in new recruits, or whether we were going to look at a scheme where we kept those who were inside for protection. We chose to bring in new recruits for protection. It has largely gone well, and we follow this every day. In the case of the case of KNM ‘Fridtjof Nansen’, we have previously also located infection on a vessel and are ready to isolate and quarantine. There are procedures for this, and it's worked very well in the defense, with all the cases we've had. It is hopeless to provide guarantees, but in general, we work very closely with the defense on this; we work closely with local health authorities, local and regional health authorities. They're doing well that the regime we've planned for and rigged to now is going to be as good as we can do. Unfortunately, this is a field where we cannot give any guarantees, but the experience we have gained suggests that we are on the safe path.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1682	‘The disaster in Gjerdrum hit an entire community hard and brutally and has affected the whole of Norway. Emergency services, volunteers and the crisis management in the municipality have made a heroic and extraordinary effort. At the same time, there are enormous challenges in long-term crisis management and follow-up of evacuated and other hard frames, and the task of repatriation Ask will be very comprehensive and costly. Can the Council of State guarantee that the State will set up and cover all costs incurred by the municipality in the short and longer term as a result of the racial disaster?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1689	The mercury cleavage in Gjerdrum was a very tragic event with fatal consequences and many affected. We have to go far back in time to find natural disasters here to countries of similar magnitude. The municipality has made a formidable effort in this difficult situation, but it also has a great and demanding task ahead of it. The government has always been very clear about the state being set up with resources, and I can assure you that the municipality will not be left alone with the rebuilding of the community. I have also communicated this directly to the rapporteur in Gjerdrum. Municipalities affected by natural damage may be compensated for exceptional additional costs through discretionary grants from the Ministry. The compensation mechanism includes both the additional costs associated with the acute crisis situation and the costs of rebuilding municipal infrastructure. In line with the applicable guidelines, the scheme covers all the additional costs associated with the event in addition to a small equity of NOK 250 per capita. It is currently unclear how much additional costs will be incurred after the scrapping disaster. It will take time to get a full overview of the economic impact. It will also take time to identify what is covered by insurance and other schemes, but it is already clear that there are significant sums. The State Manager of Oslo and Viken are in dialogue with the municipality about the economic consequences of the move, and the Department has close contact with the State Manager on the matter. I can assure you that the state will set up and that we will compensate the municipality in line with the applicable guidelines. I am determined that the financial compensation will come quickly. The Ministry will also be able to pay part of the compensation as an advance before there is a more detailed overview of the economic consequences for the municipality. I have been informed that an application has been made for the spraying of the funds from the municipality, and of course we will deal with them very quickly, so that the municipality gets predictability in this difficult and demanding time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1700	I thank you for your answer. As the Council of State has in mind, this is an extraordinary, serious event — of the extent, seriousness and consequence — both for those who have lost their lives, for the survivors, for the entire community and for the municipality in the short term and over time. It is also important, of course, for the municipality to have predictability — because of its scale, the costs it has, and also because it may be difficult to see completely comparable situations and what has happened there. As I interpret the Council of State, costs will then be covered, related to both exceptional operating costs and investment costs that go on rebuilding the centre area of Ask. Is that correctly understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1705	It is perfectly understood that it includes emergency costs that have now been incurred in the form of e.g.: expenditure on hotels, extraordinary expenditure on premises and renting resources to assist in the work. It also includes the reconstruction of municipal infrastructure, which is a major challenge in this particular case. Both water, sewerage and power supply have been affected by this tragic event. As I said, it's going to take some time before we get a full overview of the extent of this and what it will mean for the state. But the state will, of course, set up, and there will probably be quite a large amount of money considering how extensive this event has been.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1712	What I hope for is that one through this has a continuous and close dialogue with the municipality, both directly and via the State Manager. For example, when it comes to operating costs, something is clearly directly related to the disaster, but also here there may be a need for additional staffing for a shorter or longer period of time related to crisis management and follow-up. The municipality has a great responsibility for following up evacuations and other affected persons who live with great uncertainty and great aftermath of such a disaster. I hope that this is also in it. In addition, there is a challenge related to this, which I would like to ask the Council of State. It's clear that this is about the center of the municipality, which has been one of the major extension areas in the municipality. It is also likely that there will be a rapid need to make other safe areas available to build on. Will the Council of State contribute to the rapid availability and progress of planning in such areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1719	The representative raised a number of questions in his post, and I agree that there will be a lot of different parts of the municipality's business that will be affected by the tragic event – and that will be for a long time. Of course, that's also something we have to take into account when we look at the financial compensation that the state takes on. Among other things, there will be nursing homes that can no longer be used, kindergarten that can no longer be used. Fortunately, we have seen that the neighbouring municipalities in this acute phase have set themselves up for Gjerdrum and offered to relieve themselves during this demanding period. It's very good to see that solidarity between the municipalities here is at its best. The State administrator follows the municipality closely, and we have dialogue with both the municipality and not least through the State administrator.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1729	‘Unless people take continuing training now than 10 years ago, the importance of raising their skills through their professional life is growing. At the Contact Conference for Research and Higher Education on 12 January, the Prime Minister asked universities to convert shorter courses. It was said that universities need to change ‘business model’. The Workers' Party has proposed changes to the funding system to pay for continuing training courses. Governments said no. What are the main measures taken by the government to ensure that universities and colleges succeed in this significant transition?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1736	I thank you for the question. As the representative Sandberg points out, it is paradoxical that the share of continuing education in the last ten years has fallen, while the proportion of establishments saying they lack competence is increasing. It was therefore necessary for the government in 2013 to brush dust from competence policy. At the contact conference on 12 January, both the Prime Minister and I said that universities and colleges must make their education more relevant to people. This is nothing new. It is already legal today that they should offer continuing training, but we must do it to a greater extent than before. This is in line with the objectives of the competence reform, namely that no one should go out to date due to lack of competence. Then the family-father in District Norway with a mortgage and a job must also have better opportunities to fill his or her skills. To succeed in this, we need to do more things. Universities and colleges need to provide more flexible and decentralised services, employers need to make it possible for employees to study alongside jobs, and workers need to spend time on the studies. From the government's point of view, the communication of competences has set out a number of measures that will, in total, help more adults to take part in further training. One measure is to stimulate the provision of more short and flexible services by universities and colleges. Over the last few years, we've spent about 300 million. kr on this. It comes to the top of the basic appropriations they get. Together with the institutions' own framework appropriations, which have had a real growth rate of 20,2 p.m. since 2013 to the adopted budget for 2021, those grant schemes will contribute to an increase in the flexible offers. We are also in the process of following up the self-payment regulations, which are currently preventing the development of some offers, and we are making the Loan Fund more flexible for adults. When it comes to changes in the funding system for universities and colleges, it is quite right that I wasn't particularly excited that whether students got a relevant job after the studies was the best way to finance the sector, because that's something they don't have control of. But the whole funding of the university and higher education sectors is a topic I want to address in the announced governance message that comes before Easter. In addition, the government will present its own strategy for decentralised and flexible education for vocational education and higher education before the summer. Through this strategy, we will bring together the actions we have in this area, point to new ambitions and give direction to this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1755	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have recorded that the government is going to present a strategy in which to point out a direction and show good examples. But the money pot the Council of State refers to, competition for funds and this strategy cannot be the whole answer. Well, the power of the example is great, but if universities and colleges are to meet future demand for further education, not only inspiration and competitive means are needed, but there needs to be measures like monks. In the Khrono online newspaper recently, Director Scule went out in Competence Norway and called for funding for flexible education. He highlighted the lack of long-term funding mechanisms as a major challenge for Norway, and considered that this money should either come through the funding system or from payment institutions. What will the Council of State do? Will he implement the funding systems?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1766	Let me just say first that it's absolutely right that we come up with a strategy for decentralised education before the summer, but that's not just the one we come with. We come up with a management message, we come up with a work-life relevance message, and we come up with a strategy for the vocational schools. All these are discussions that I look forward to having with the Storting – about how we provide these measures. To be a little direct: I have no prestige in not making a broad deal about these things. I am very happy that we can do this with the Sandberg party, the Workers' Party, as well. Then, of course, in this sector, as in all sectors, one should wish that there was always a lot of predictability over a very long time, and that money was promised almost automatically anyway. But I'm a little concerned that the funding we provide, also triggers new activity – that it's not just given as a basic allocation, but that it's also given through just competition and outsourcing of the funds. We're going to talk about the funding system, and it's quite obvious, which also emerged clearly at the contact conference, that this is a mission for the university and higher education sectors that is becoming more important in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1777	Thank you to the Council of State. Back to the contact conference. There the Prime Minister said that offering shorter education and training is also a task for publicly funded universities. If the schools did not undertake that task – and I quote – ‘private actors will take over this field, and it will be stupid’. I believe that the conversion requested by the Prime Minister could challenge the free principle of higher education. Equal access to education is fundamental to us in the Workers' Party. I have noted that it has been lost in the Right Party programme for the coming years. My question to the Council of State is: does he see that the free principle can be undermined in a system of education in which more and more of the university's offerings become continuing education that does not lead to a degree? How will the State Council implement the free principle of higher education?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1788	It's my party, Right, that legalized the free principle. That's what Kristin Clement did. We may have forgotten a bullet point that we have to put into the program, but when we legislate that principle ourselves, we are also very clear about it. In addition – I forgot to frame it instead – a new university and college law that will probably also mention this important principle. It is about education being accessible to all. There should not be a background for deciding whether to allow higher education to take place in Norway. That's the way it is, and that's the way it should be. However, some of what the Prime Minister pointed out was that the need for continuing training and flexible offers are there in any case, and the offer will come up in any case, and if the publicly funded institutions do not contribute to it, private operators will emerge to deliver it. It was more a warning than a wish from the Prime Minister. One of the things that the institutions have brought up with us is just the self-payment regulation, which makes it impossible to use the same teaching that you have for students who are there on the free principle, for those who take continuing education.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1800	‘The municipality of Narvik and the municipality of Skoma are concerned with the ongoing revision of the concession terms for the development of the river Skoma by Statekraft. A revision is considered essential to achieve a sustainable salmon population in the river. The matter is much delayed. When can it be expected that the matter will be dealt with by the Ministry of Oil and Energy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1807	The concession terms for older hydropower concessions may be revised after 50 years. The main purpose of an audit will be to improve environmental conditions in previously regulated watercourses. This must also be balanced against the purpose of the concession, which is, of course, power generation. The concession for the regulation of the Skjomenvassläge in Narvik municipality was granted in 1969, and the terms can be revised from 2019. The NVE opened an audit case in 2016 in accordance with local government requirements and public interest requirements. Government drafts an audit paper in 2017. The NVE has carried out a consultation of the audit working paper and, in the light of the consultation, has asked the State to carry out additional studies. These were completed in 2020. NVE is now working on an adjustment for the department, but it is a little difficult to estimate when it will be possible to transmit it. I understand that the municipality of Narvik and the municipality of Skhomen are concerned with the ongoing audit, and I want to make sure that both the NVE and the ministry will make a thorough assessment of the requirements that have come in, and assess what can be done by measures for salmon.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1816	Skoma was one of Norway’s best major fish stocks before its expansion in 1969, but now it has not been allowed for the local population in the countryside to fish for 11 years, nor is it possible to travel to Skoman to experience the river. The Labour Party believes that the loss of natural diversity poses a similar threat to our life base as climate change. The villa is of several called Norway's panda. Norway has a special responsibility to take care of the wild because a third of the world's Atlantic salmon lives in our fjords. The Norwegian Institute of Natural Research, NINA, together with the population of Skhomen, is aware that the minimum water supply is essential to rescue salmon. As it is now, the bottom freezes eleven every winter, and then both the eggs and the juvenile die. How does the government intend to impose absolute minimum water supply requirements for all conditional audits where it was not done when they were built out?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1825	We all agree that we should try to make environmental improvements in part of the watercourses that have concession, and take them up to conditional auditing. There is also a priority list to follow. I very much share what the representative here says, precisely our responsibility to secure the salmon population in Norway in various watercourses. It has great significance for travel, for those who live there, for those who live on it, and, of course, for the environmental conditions of the watercourse. But now this matter is for review. We will consider these measures carefully when we get the case to be dealt with, but it is difficult for me to say something at this stage about those assessments, given that the suspension of the NVE is not yet available.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1832	There are very many large and small rematches about the major environmental interventions that occurred when the watercourses with hydropower were developed, more than 50 years ago for Skomas. Environmental considerations need to be balanced against the amount of renewable energy and a loss of power generation will be a consequence of setting environmental requirements. What is the government's pronounced policy in the balance between the loss of power and the maintenance of natural diversity?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1839	This is question Stortinget has discussed many times in the past. In the list of audits we are going to carry out, which is in order of priority, as I mentioned before, a certain degree of loss of power production has also been accepted. It is quite right, as the representative says, that in many cases it will lead to loss of power generation when you go in and make environmental improvements, but it has been willing to do so, because it is also an important value. As the representative says, many of these concessions have been granted many years ago, and there is also reason to consider how to improve environmental conditions. But this will always be a balance, and we're going to go into a future where we need more power. We're going to electrify a lot, we're going to reach some pretty ambitious climate targets, so this is a continuous balance. Now, here in Stortinget tomorrow, we are going to discuss a matter of protected watercourses. Going into sheltered watercourses to build more power generation is not a policy I agree with, because I think we also need to take care of our environmental values.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1846	Then the ordinary question mark is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-20.ana.ud162e1860	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - That's not seen. The meeting has been cancelled.
