ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e47	The representatives Per Martin Sandtrøen and Solveig Vitanza, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For West Agder: Amalie Gunnufsen For Hedmark: Bente Irene Aaland The request is submitted by the Group of the Left for the extension of the granted welfare permit of the representative of Alfred Jens Bjørlo from 24 to 30 November until 3 December. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The meeting representative of Sogn and Fjordane, Gunhild Berge Stan g, has received an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget on 2 and 3 December under the representative Alfred Jens Bjørlos leave, for reasons of well-being. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate, Gunhild Berge Stag, is still proposed to meet during the leave period until 1 December, and other alternate, Ole-Ansger Nepomuk Martini, is proposed to meet in the Stortinget on 2 and 3 December. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. In addition, three permit applications are available: from the Central Party Group on the Permit of the representative of Gro-Anita Mykjåland from 26 November to 1 December to take part in the 143rd session of the Interparliamentary Union in Madrid by the Group of the Right on the Permit of the Representatives of Trond Helleland and Ine Eriksen Soreide from 28 November to 3 December – both to participate in the Transatlantic Forum with the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Washington DC On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For East Agder: Oddbjørn Kylland 30 November-1. December For Buskerud: Kristin Ørmen Johnsen 30 November–2. December For Oslo: Michael Tetzschner from 30 November–2. December
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e134	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e139	On behalf of Marie Sneve Martinussen, Sofie Marhaug, Seher Aydar, Geir Jørgensen, Mimir Kristjánsson, Tobias Drevland Lund, Hege Bae Nyholt and myself, I would like to propose an update of the guidelines for commuter housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e144	The representative, Ms Breivik, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e149	On behalf of the representatives of Guri Melby, Abid Q. Raja, Grunde Almeland, Ingvild Wethrus Thorsvik and the undersigned, I would like to make a proposal for more European cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e154	The representative, Kristoffer Robin Haug, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e159	On behalf of the representative Rauand Ismail and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the receipt system for personal checks.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e164	The representative, Sofie Marhaug, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e170	On behalf of myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to renegotiate the governance agreement with Enova SF.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e175	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e182	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Heidi Greni. – Other proposals are not available, and Heidi Greni is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e200	On the basis of the President’s announcement to withdraw as President of the United Kingdom – the announcement was referred to at the Grand Duchy meeting on Tuesday 23 November – the Grand Duchy must elect a new President. The representative, Mr Aasrud, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e207	: The Labour Party has a candidate for the new Grand President who will also follow our other presidency representation. We have strong leadership in our party for the smoothest possible gender distribution. As a result, I would therefore ask that a new fourth vice-president be elected.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e212	The President then proposes that, in addition to the election of the new President-in-Office, a new fourth Vice-President be elected. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President first requests proposals to the President of Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e222	I have the honour to propose Masud Gharahkhani.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e230	Masud Gharahkhani has been proposed to the President of the United Kingdom. Other proposals are not available. The President proposes that the President be elected by written voting. This is done by the representatives writing a name on one of the published ballots and going forward and putting the ballots in one of the two ballot boxes placed in front of the President's table. – A written vote will then be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e241	A total of 119 votes were cast. The President of the Grand Duchy was elected Masud Gharakhani by 103 votes. There were 2 votes for the non-proposed candidate. 14 ballots were blank.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e252	The President then asks for proposals from the Fourth Vice-President of Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e260	I'd like to suggest Kari Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e268	Kari Henriksen has been proposed for the fourth Vice President of Storting. Other proposals are not available. A written vote shall be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e280	A total of 119 votes were cast. The fourth Vice President of the Storting was elected Kari Henriksen by 106 votes. 13 ballots were blank.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e291	Thus, the elections to the Presidency of the Grand Duchy have taken place, and the President will ask the newly elected Grand President to come up and take over the club. Then I will be allowed to congratulate you on your election and welcome you to the College! Good luck with important and demanding tasks. [[Acclamation in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e307	Thank you very much! I would like to thank you for the trust you have shown me. Together, we have a great job to do to regain the confidence of the people we're going to serve. I look forward to performing the work in a safe and trusting manner, in close cooperation with all parties on the Stortinget. Thank you. Then we'll move on to the Stortinge agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e325	At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the President will organise the debate as follows: the Labour Party 15 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Centre 10 minutes, the Progress Party 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Red 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Green 5 minutes and the Christian People's Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e332	First, I would also like to take the opportunity to congratulate the President-in-Office of the Council on his election. I had a slight suspicion that the big attendance in the hall was primarily about the election of President. Then I will have the opportunity to thank the Foreign Minister for the statement on Tuesday. It was a thorough and thorough presentation, which touched on many issues that we may not have finished discussing, because progress in Europe requires us to continue those discussions. But it was also important to make a presentation now, and I am also pleased with the signals from the Minister of Foreign Affairs that the government is continuing much of the policy of the Solberg government. Norwegian foreign policy begins in Europe, and the current strategy for cooperation with the EU represented a very clear turnaround. The Solberg government strengthened cooperation with the EU because we wanted to do so, and because it served Norwegian interests, not because we had to. It is a crucial starting point and largely defines the approach of a government to European cooperation. In several European countries, human rights are under pressure, and in particular in Poland and Hungary. The previous government was clearly tightening up towards these countries, in particular through the EEA funds. These were long and thorough and absolutely necessary processes, and this led us to reject EEA funds for Polish municipalities and regions that declared themselves to be LHBTI non-ideology zones. And even though several of these municipalities and regions have now withdrawn the declarations, the government has to follow very closely whether there is only a cosmetic change or a real change. How LHBTI persons are actually treated in these municipalities and in other countries must be defined. We also reduced that part of judicial cooperation with Poland as referred to in the courts, but we maintained, among other things, that. the part of the cooperation referred to in the measures to prevent violence against women. And in particular, we concluded an agreement with Hungary that they would not be paid any EEA funds if we did not agree on an independent fund manager for EEA funds. As we did not agree, the agreement entered into force, and Hungary cannot now receive them approximately. 2.3 billion. kr which was allocated to programmes in Hungary. We did this to put fundamental principles of the rule of law and human rights at the centre. It was absolutely necessary, and I am very pleased that the government so clearly maintains this policy. Last night, the Polish Constitutional Court also stated that parts of the European Convention on Human Rights, the EMC, are contrary to the Polish Constitution. This comes after the EMD has criticised the Polish judicial reforms which undermine the independence and impartiality of judges and which are contrary to the ECHR, Article 6. This is probably an ominous sign of the development of the rule of law in Poland. When negotiating the next round of EEA funds, an important Norwegian requirement should be that the conditionality mechanisms we have used in relation to Hungary and Poland become part of the text of the agreement itself. This is a tightening of EU interest as well. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement that Germany is our main partner in Europe. It's an assessment I'm sharing in full. It was also what was behind the design of a separate German strategy by the Solberg government. I had the pleasure of being a guest during the German station manager's meeting in June and spoke to the German diplomatic corps. It was important then, and it is important in the future, to underline the value we have with Germany and the way we work together to strengthen and reform the multilateral system. Just in terms of values, rule of law and human rights, it is very important to have Germany as a partner. When I started at the station manager's meeting, I focused on some developments that also affect Europe. One is that inequality and populism have fed polarization and protectionism. The second is that just when you might be that it's a weakened global leadership, autocratic and authoritarian forces emerge and challenge the hard-working advances that have been in the field of human rights, including on our own continent. These are developments we have a common responsibility to fight back, and we are doing the best we can in close cooperation in Europe. We see a very dramatic situation at the border between Poland and Belarus, and from the Right we support the line chosen by the government, including Norway continuing to join the EU's restrictive measures against Belarus. The previous government promoted, as known, a new sanction law that was endorsed by the Storting, and it is particularly important now, because it allows us to participate fully in all restrictive measures. But in the light of developments in general in the region, I think it's a very unwise decision by the government to cut 128 million. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF). The development of strong legal and sustainable economies is a crucial premise for the emergence of peaceful and democratic societies. Stagnation and regression provide increased tensions and risks of radicalisation internally in several countries. The development of the last few weeks in Bosnia can serve as an important and disturbing example. Internal radicalisation also provides room for external actors who see themselves serving to counter deeper and closer European integration. The Solberg government almost doubled the support to the Western Balkans just to counteract these trends, which also have a strong impact on the rest of Europe. The EU is now running a large-scale economic reconstruction and recovery after the pandemic, and the very hub of this is the European Green Deal, Europe's green give. It is a combined growth and climate strategy. I'm going to admit that I was worried about the green give when the pandemic hit. Did it come to be put in a drawer, or was it going to be carried on? The EU decided to take leadership, strengthen it and use it as part of its economic recovery. It's a very good piece of political craft. Norway has a lot to contribute and can benefit significantly from the greens. We have very competent business and R & D environments, leading technologies and an already close link with EU climate and environmental policies. Norway must continue to be well advanced in the bulkheads and take a full part in this transition. It serves Norwegian interests very well. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also mentioned the cooperation in defence and security policy with the EU. I think there's a need to continue to strengthen this cooperation, but in a way that doesn't duplicate what we're doing as NATO ally. In practice, this is about how we deal with a wide range of issues at the crossroads between defence, technology and trade. The question today is also how we are going to maintain a military advantage when emerging powers are increasingly reaping top-notch technology from the civil side. How should future export controls be designed, what type of infrastructure should we cover, and what should remain open to tenders and ownership by different actors? In these matters, I think we have a lot to gain from an even closer cooperation with the EU and like-minded individual countries, like our Nordic neighbours. The Solberg Government has ensured that consultations with the EU are strengthened in several important areas, including: in the case of screening. The more we can coordinate, the more resilient we become against pressure. These are complex issues where we need both a solid and independent national decision-making base and where we benefit greatly from exchanging information. This type of case concerns not only security but also other considerations such as trade and competition. That is why not allies will always reach the same conclusions, and that is precisely why it is so important that we maintain close contact, and that is why the Nordic countries and the European Union will often be close to us. The Solberg government invested a lot of resources to strengthen its relationship with the EU. Only in the last two years did we ensure Norway a place in relevant projects under PESCO, and from this year on, Norway also joins the major new European Defence Research Fund, EDF. I want to finish where I started, with why it is so important and right to work closely with the EU. This is because it serves Norwegian interests. Then it's not to avoid making a visit to the Hurdal platform. It is such that the Hurdals platform does not mention the importance of the EEA Agreement, which is our second largest, most comprehensive and important international agreement. It says that the EEA Agreement is based, but it does not have any enthusiasm. We also see that some of the proposals on the Hurdal platform, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs also repeated in his statement, are at best unclear. I have also previously tried to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs what is meant by an investigation into the experience of EEA cooperation in the last ten years – which I think is good; knowledge is positive. However, it also states that experience from neighbouring countries outside the EU that have other agreements with the EU should also be explored. There are only two neighbouring countries: Switzerland and the United Kingdom, both outside the internal market. What would the premise for this type of investigation be? I am also concerned that the government will not set enough pace in cooperation with the EU and in EEA cooperation and become a party to lose Norwegian influence and influence over important processes. I see that the government writes on the platform that the EEA Agreement is based, but I would like to know that the government intends to maintain the same high pace as the previous government in cooperation with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e376	Honored President! Congratulations on the country's highest position, and congratulates the Minister for Foreign Affairs on his first statement! In summary, Norway is not the strongest alone, either militarily, politically or economically. We are dependent on each other, we are dependent on committed cooperation, and that is what is the basis of Norwegian foreign and security policy: the UN, NATO and the EEA. The chairperson of the Committee must have followed poorly if she has not had the enthusiasm of the Minister of Foreign Affairs for all three pillars of Norwegian foreign policy. For the last two years, we've been more isolated. We've noticed how much we miss the open borders. What we've taken for granted, that we can travel freely between countries, visit each other, trade with each other and cooperate with each other, we haven't had the last few years. We've seen how closely integrated we are. Not least our border municipalities, where everyday life has become completely different on both sides of the border. We've learned through the corona that we need both a stronger nation state and more international cooperation. There's no contradiction, rather the opposite. That is the core of the government's European policy. There are few areas where we see it more clearly than in climate policy. It's the most international of all challenges. It's so international that it's easy to point to others, but it doesn't do today's government; we say we should do the job ourselves. We're going to cut over half of Norwegian emissions, and then we're going to cooperate with Europe to reduce emissions, both in Europe and at home. We're also going to be inspired by what's happening out there. In Europe, we see a more active industrial policy. The question is not whether Norway should be on the front line, but whether we should not be on the back. For the climate solutions also provide opportunities. Norway's competitive advantage should never be that we are the cheapest or have the lowest wages, but we may have the most climate-friendly and the most modern technology. I am pleased that we have a new government that understands the importance of an active state, which will cut emissions and create jobs. One of the main objectives of foreign policy is to make national policies possible. I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for spending so much of her explanation talking about working life, for work is the most important thing in your life. We often say that immigration is positive for Norway, but it is more than that: we are totally dependent on it. But what we don't have anything to give in to is the Norwegian model. Therefore, the fight against social dumping is crucial for a new government. Everything is related to everything," said Gro Harlem Brundtland. We see that clearly in this question. When we increase the union deduction, it helps to fence around the Norwegian model. Where the previous government wrote a statement of support for the unorganized working life, we say the opposite. We want to take active action to ensure the standards of Norwegian labour policy. It is crucial for the European policy of the new government. I belong to a generation where most of the things in our part of the world have gone in the right direction: more democracy, more equality, more openness and greater opportunities. But in recent years we've seen many places in Europe that it's gone the other way. Because it's not gravity that makes it more freedom, it's politics, and politics can take us the other way. We've seen it in Hungary, we've seen it in Poland, and we've seen it in other countries. Freedom of expression is under pressure, women's rights are being reversed, and we've seen the establishment of LHBT-free zones. It's not acceptable, and it's against everything we stand for. Norway cannot solve the situation, because it can only be done internally in individual countries, but we can do even more to help the cancers that work for us. We can support civil society, freeze support when conditions are not accepted and participate in symbolic markers of support and solidarity. Through the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to thank our embassies and ambassadors for doing just that: meeting civil society, participating in pride markings and supporting human rights activists. Let me end by saying that a few years ago, many people said that social democracy was in crisis. Well, yesterday we were told that we are getting a new social-democratic chancellor in Europe, and we now have social-democratic prime ministers and centre-left governments in Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Finland. It's been more than 20 years since this happened at the same time. And even though Nordic cooperation stands at the crossroads of the parties, I think this coalition will open up even more Nordic cooperation – for joint initiatives in European policy, in labour policy, in environmental policy and in initiative policy. We go into a time of more cooperation, more solidarity and recognition of our strength in common, both at home and outside the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e399	Congratulations on your new job! I want to start my speech by thanking the Foreign Minister for a clear-sighted, good and sober presentation. It points both to the opportunities and to the challenges we face in relation to the EU and the EEA. It provides a practical follow-up in the field consistent with the compromise reached between the Workers' Party and the Centre Party of the Hurdal Platform. It is well known that the Centre Party and the Workers Party have different primary positions in terms of EU and EEA views. The centre party has both legs planted in the Norwegian no-page on the issue of EU membership. And I don't have to repeat our scepticism to the EEA as a construction, and to a number of the extensive EU adaptations that the bulk of the population has released since 1993. Many will therefore probably ask why the Centre Party can then rule with the Workers' Party, which has a different approach, and how we can stand behind the European policy of the Hurdal Platform. Let me be clear: it is completely unnecessary to explain to the Central Party that political cooperation also requires political compromises. The willingness to work for breakthroughs through compromise goes like a green thread through my party's history. The centre party is a party that primarily works in the meeting rooms, where the decisions are made, not in Eidsvoll's place. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in the statement, the national state is the primary framework of political responsibility. Let me add for myself: also for the People's Government, and the best basis for the welfare community as well. At the same time, all of us have always been and will depend on international cooperation and transparency. The center party believes that the Hurdal platform is pulling things in the right direction. It outlines a line that ensures political cooperation and trade cooperation as there is a cross-political agreement that we should have with the European Union and with the European countries. But neither does the Minister for Foreign Affairs believe that there are conflicts of interest and challenges Norway has to deal with. We know, for example. that the common labour market in the EEA has created problems with unprofessional working life and social dumping, and we know that there are also conflicts of interest related to common solutions and standards. These discussions are now available to address in a balanced and sober manner, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also outlines, in a way that does not distort what is genuine Norwegian interest but that recognises and exploits the leeway that EEA cooperation actually gives Norway. I stress this because the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement clearly shows that the Workers' Party-Center Party government will pursue a more active policy vis-à-vis the EU and the EEA than the previous governments have done. For what has often been called an active European policy, all too often has been a passive European policy. There has been a policy in which Norwegian governments have taken too little advantage of the scope of action that Norway actually has through EEA cooperation. Those who argue that Norway should act in a proper manner towards the EU do both Norwegian interests and the European cooperation climate serve as a service to bearers. The Central Party believes that the Hurdal Platform and the Foreign Minister’s statement bid that Norwegian policy should actually be active in response to the EU, not just in its name, but in real priorities. I expect that someone will try to minimize this in the debate today, but I will ask some questions. Would a Right-Handed Government have announced a more active line to promote Norwegian interests within the EEA and even that the EEA Agreement action space should be put into service, with particular emphasis on ensuring national control in areas such as Norwegian working life, energy and rail? I can't picture it. Would a Right-Original Government take the initiative to engage in dialogue with the EU with a view to ensuring Norway exemption from the provisions of the fourth rail package of the EU? I can't picture it. Would Erna Solberg have ever accepted to conduct an investigation into the experience of EEA cooperation in the last ten years and to explore the experience of neighbouring countries outside the EU with alternative agreements with the EU? Nope. Now this is part of the government's policy, and for the Central Party, these things represent a clear and clear advance. Everyone in this room is aware of the rather fixed situation that has existed between EEA sceptics and EEA trailers. Position war may be a pretty strong word to use, but at least we've been firmly attached to our positions on both sides in all our friendships. I hope now that we can get a little bit of movement in that picture. We will always have different views on the EU and the EEA in this room, but it is also possible to steer the debate against what is the Norwegian primary interests in cooperation with the EU and discuss how to act in relation to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e422	President, congratulations on your work! I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the presentation. But I have to say that when I heard the statement, it was almost so I thought it was the previous foreign minister who made the presentation. There wasn't much difference here. The previous foreign minister said ‘supports the line’ and ‘parts in full’ — it was basically what it was characterized by. You'd have to do that. It is certainly difficult to find nuances in European policy, but then I get to be the odd man out. I realized that it was a little principleal approach. It was characterized by practical and partly inconsistent and contradictory conclusions and some flakes. We are not the strongest alone, the claim is, and the climate crisis is used as an example. But then why do we insist that national climate action is what we are going to do, when we actually mean and say the opposite? So the pandemic was the second example. If there's something it's shown to us, it's that the national measures are going on, there were closed borders, it was securing vaccines, that was in the break. It wasn't even a global measure on how many vaccines were found in Africa. That's not what was, and then why use that kind of rhetoric? The Minister of Foreign Affairs held the presentation of the freedom of expression, and that is good. She said at the same time that power structures are changing. In relation to what? Yes, there are power structures in change, but it has always been, and it's always going to be, and it's positive – whether it comes in one direction or the other. That's what democracy is all about. That some countries want to focus on national culture and cultural heritage and national self-determination is not negative, it is actually quite acceptable and in line with what we, as a magnificence hall and big business representatives, should also appreciate. The green transition – and there will be a small speck again – will create competitiveness and industrial development and there is no way. Carbon capture and storage: these are subsidies implemented in the billions class, and if it had been profitable, the industry would have been there right away. That's how capitalism works -- these selfish, Greek capitalists who are going to invest to make money. But they do not want to invest money, they are waiting for subsidies, and then we must not say the opposite. We just have to admit that we want to use subsidies because we have a different goal. Let's be honest about this. In the case of Norwegian pay and working conditions in Norway: that is good, I am for that. But the Foreign Minister would say that, for example. a Norwegian worker in Poland shall have Polish wage and working conditions? For the cross-border exchange of labour, what the Minister for Foreign Affairs thought was also positive. Is it the case that we are going to have Polish working conditions, or are we going to push pay and work conditions up in Poland, so that they meet Norwegian pay and work conditions? I guess the last one's a little bit unlikely. And Poland and Hungary lose financial support because they do not make changes to their legislation, as the rest of the EU wants — including Norway. What would we say if we were forced to change our law when it came to oil extraction, hunting for sales, whaling, etc.? If we were written off that change, how would we react? Poland and Hungary are going to come after us in terms of sexual minorities and rights. To us it is of course, but they will come after. But when they are forced upon it, it creates anger and contempt for the European Union, and we see that right now. It takes some time, and we have to accept that. Remember that homophili was banned in Norway in 1972, and then a majority was banned from homophili in Norway. So we have to accept that it actually takes a little bit of time, that we don't overnight change it to what we want to be the final goal. We're going to strengthen our cooperation with our Nordic neighbours, and we're going to strengthen our cooperation with Germany – but then it's funny that the first thing we do is go with French forces to Mali. That's not where we were supposed to strengthen our cooperation, but that's where we start, with a culture and a language that's very foreign to Norway, in a former French colony, Mali. There we are. But we're most close to Germany and our Nordic neighbours and the United Kingdom. That's not true. That doesn't match reality. For logistics with French forces in Mali, you can guess how it would work. Then we are pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs put a bell on the cat in the case of Lukashenko and Belarus. I'm not going to go into it any more, because I want to get into the last thing: we're happy that you've gone into PESCO and EDF. It is important for Norway, but it is not a single market. It does not create an internal market. It's still competition, and it's positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e443	The Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke warmly about close cooperation between European countries, and it can be signed by SV and I. The Foreign Minister also underlines the need for an active discussion on our relationship with Europe. That's good. So it is the shape and content of this European cooperation that we need an informed and active discussion about, not whether we are in favour of or against European cooperation. Instead of a startling picture of what would happen if Norway were to come to sneezing in the supposed good European community, it's time with a foot in the ground and an honest change of words about where we're going. An example from the election campaign was when a mass red-green opposition, together with LO, addressed the EU rail package IV because it implies a competitive suspension of all future rail passenger traffic in Norway and that we are under the supervision of the EU rail system. Then we heard from one of the then government parties that we were against the fact that people could take the train south across the border. It is not, to put it mildly, a contribution to an informed debate. An understanding of the experience with the EEA in the last ten years, as the government now advocates in its platform, is therefore of the good, and it may hopefully be a chance to make the Council of State's wish an active discussion a reality. Therefore, I hope that we will have a wide-ranging selection that illuminates the EEA Agreement from different perspectives, and that the disagreements are also raised in the assessment of the impact of the agreement, with researchers and resource personnel from organisations that have specific in-depth experience in their fields. The mandate should emphasise that there may be disagreement on both the problem descriptions and the analysis perspective, as there is open disagreement on how the EEA Agreement affects Norwegian policy. In our understanding, SV argues that the EEA is a dynamic agreement that only develops one way – in the direction of increasingly market governance and increasingly the transfer of sovereignty. The agreement is much more extensive than at the time of the agreement, but it is so gradual that it is not always easy to point out exactly what happened. This loss of the elected bodies of power and power is in itself a problem because it leads to renunciation, apathy and renunciation. We also see this in many EU countries. It's not a strange phenomenon. There is a lot of talk about exploiting the EEA space. SV is willing to use any kind of action space. The government will receive our full support to do just that, if necessary by way of reservation rights, and by using the possibilities that may exist to pursue the policy that is necessary and desirable, for example. in areas related to energy, working life and rail, which the government itself draws on. It is a good signal that the Foreign Minister wants to have a special focus on ensuring national control in these areas. I look forward to the government following up this signal with practical policy. SV will also go further and take much stronger national democratic control in these areas, either in terms of working life, energy policy or rail. To conclude with railway policy: the government platform thus says that the government will engage, as quickly as possible, in dialogue with the EU with the aim of securing exemptions from parts of the EU fourth railway package. That's what's supporting us about. At the same time, it is alarming that there is already a signal of a glide flight away from this active desire to secure a derogation. For SV, it is absolutely essential to avoid future rail passenger services in Norway being subject to EU coercive measures. The most important exceptions we have to secure are exemptions from this competitive constraint and the submission under EU railway supervision. This also means that it will be easier to reverse the fragmentation and organisation of the Norwegian railway system and to retain their rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e458	Decisive governments have given EU small and medium-sized enterprises more control over key societal areas such as energy, working life and transport. The negative consequences can be read off on the electricity bills that are now threatening to destroy both the economy and the Christmas to families around the country. They can be read from Norwegian workplaces where social dumping imported under the EEA Agreement destroys safe working conditions, and not least we also see it in the transport sector, where we are at risk of irreversible competitive outsourcing, congestion and privatisation of Norwegian railways if we do not now take action to ensure Norway's derogation from the fourth rail package. The EEA Agreement is a system of subscriptions to right-hand policies from Brussels. So there's still a light point. Never before has there been more on the Storting that will either replace the EEA Agreement, get it off, or renegotiate parts of it, or at least exploit the space of action, whether we should believe what was said by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party before the elections. At the same time, the trade union movement is quite unambiguous and clear. They require that Norwegian working life be protected from EU and EEA pressures. This gives the government a historic opportunity to honour its commitments from the election campaign and from the Hurdal platform to exploit the scope of the agreement and, in particular, to request a derogation from the fourth rail package of the EU. Unfortunately, we now see that the government is in some sort of slippery flight away from the Hurdal platform's promises regarding the fourth railway package, despite the fact that the right government incorporated us into the railway package after the government had lost the election, and against the will of a clear majority in the new Storting after the fall. Instead of going to the EEA Committee and asking for forced privatisation to be removed from the package, the government is now only talking about postponing privatisation for 10 years. If that happens, it will be a clear betrayal of the expectations of an overall trade union movement, which is against irreversible privatisation and liberalisation of the railways, not only in ten years, but here and now and for all future. In the statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke about ensuring constitutional and fully secure Norwegian interests, but unfortunately the story of Norway’s EEA membership is a story about the exact opposite. Juss professors Eirik Holmøyvik and Christoffer Conrad Eriksen have pointed out that once authority has been transferred to the EU, the basic law on minority rights to protect our sovereignty has also been sacrificed on the road. Time and again, the EU-loyal majority of the Storting has decided to give Norwegian sovereignty to Brussels by a simple majority, which in fact assumes that the surrender is of little intervention when it should have followed § 115 which requires a three-quarters majority. This occurred both at the Acer registration and at the registration in the fourth railway package, despite the fact that both, in Red’s view, involve a very extensive transmission of authorities. However, when the majority decides which transfer of powers to the EU is of little intervention, the minority’s right to protect the right of self-determination is illusory. This violation of the Basic Law is not a hypothetical issue, because now we have a historic opportunity to stand up to the EEA to protect Norwegian power, working life and rail because we have more elected voters than ever that have promised the voters to do just that, but then the provisions of the Basic Law must also be respected. There is a straight line from the violation of the majority will of the people expressed in two referendums, the registration in the EEA, and to the sneaking-in of the dwindling Solberg government in the fourth railway package of the EU, in violation of the wishes of the majority of the population. Red has made proposals for the repeal of this Decision. There is a need to avoid a breach of promises to both voters and trade unionists. There is also a golden opportunity to put a line over the neglect of democracy and the unconstitutional transfer of power to the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e477	I would also like to start by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs for her first European statement. In his speech, the Minister for Foreign Affairs addressed many of the most important issues affecting Norway’s relationship with the EU, and I particularly appreciated the fact that she used such a large part of the statement to talk about Norway’s climate cooperation with the EU. The government platform under the auspices of the Minister for Foreign Affairs is characterised by its being written as a joint declaration for a pronounced no to the EU and the EEA Party, and a party which until recently had in its party programme that Norway should apply for membership of the EU. The compromises negotiated by the Centre Party and the Workers' Party provide a fairly ambivalent relationship with the rest of Europe. Here are many fine words about cooperation. At the same time, the explored alternatives to the EEA and use the space for action in the EEA Agreement to limit the extent of Norway’s cooperation with the EU. The Minister of Foreign Affairs and her party traps have been collated in their responses to the investigation of alternatives to the EEA, which they will implement together with the Centre Party. It is about getting an up-to-date knowledge base, they explain, while saying that the EEA Agreement is firm. That a knowledge base is important, the Foreign Minister and I can agree on it. But why they think it makes more sense to look at Switzerland and the United Kingdom than for example. to Denmark and Sweden, I still don't get wise. Because if the vast majority of knowledge is involved in this investigation, there should be a desire for knowledge that also extends to experiences from countries with full membership, as our Nordic neighbouring country has. Therefore, today, the Left proposes that if the government is to explore alternatives to the EEA, they must also look at experiences from neighbouring countries that are members of the EU. It may be tempting to ask whether the government parties are concerned about what an investigation of the alternatives to EU membership has been, because they are afraid of the answer, namely that the best option to EEA is full membership. ‘Caudervelsk’ is the expression former leader of the Oslo Workers’ Party, Fredrik Mellem, used to describe the government’s European policy. In between, unfortunately, the government’s line sums up very well when he writes that ‘what is on the Hurdal platform gives the impression that the parties have quickly agreed that nothing is going to happen here’. To the extent that they are to use the space for action in the EEA Agreement, there are several exceptions to European cooperation in Norway. For the Left, we hope that this is not an appropriate heading of Norwegian European policy for the next four years. That is why we also used today's opportunity to promote a document 8 which gives direction and which clarifies the European policy we believe Norway needs in the years to come. The challenge for Norway in the next few years is not that we have too much cooperation with the EU today. On the contrary, we think it's too small, and it's too slow. Norway is part of an important community in Europe, and the countries that are closest to us both politically, historically and culturally are far from all EU members today. The EU is the world's most ambitious climate block, and with national solutions ranging from trade policy to border control, we are responding to an increasing number of these challenges, Europe and European cooperation. Our challenge is that we are on the go when important decisions are made. This means that we have reduced influence over Europe’s future direction, and that we are following when the EU knows a ‘new green give’ or makes itself ‘ready for 55’. The EEA Agreement was negotiated in the 1990s and bears the mark that the EU and Norway have changed a lot since then. Therefore, if that agreement is to be established, we need to adapt it to our needs in view of an EU that cooperates more and faster than ever before. The EEA action room can not only be about what to reserve for, but also about what we want to participate more in. Business in Norway is not screaming for more conflict, but for more cooperation with the rest of the continent. Then it is a pity that the left side makes the fight for an already approved rail directive acidify the relationship with the EU, when we need it, is a better environment for business. The Minister for Foreign Affairs says that she wants Norway to participate in industrial cooperation with the EU, but she is not specific in how or in what areas. We have an agreement that governs our climate cooperation with the EU, but we have no formalised membership of the European Union. It is a task for the new foreign minister, and we therefore propose that the government try to establish a separate partner agreement with the EU that covers everything within the EU's green giving. There are several concrete proposals in the proposal we have tabled today, and I hope that both the government and the Stortinget will take a good look at the opportunities that the European Union can actually offer us, if we dare to take a step up from the ambivalence of the Hurdal platform. Today’s main challenges require more European cooperation, not less. Rather, let us meet across party membership to give this government a mandate to pursue a positive and forward-looking European policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e498	I think it is a good European debate we have in this Chamber. It's predictable along the lines, because these are questions where the batches have different views. From being accused of fraud from Red and being too critical to most of it from the Right to changing the Hurdal platform from the Left – it was along used lines. But I want to say that all the arguments put forward here have something to do with them. I believe that what is important for the government of European policy is to take account of Norwegian interests and how best to take care of them. I was at my first meeting of the EEA Council yesterday and got no signal that I had in any way acidified the relationship with the EU. So I think we're going to be a little bit sober in the verbal accusations, and then we have to agree on what we're going to take care of. Of course, it is completely inappropriate for the government to change the Hurdal platform through a proposal for a representative. That's what we're talking about, and we're also going to join the Storting. At least I want to start in a different way from what the previous government did in 2013, by drawing the question of the cheese to the ground despite the fact that there was no majority in the storeroom, so I look forward to a good cooperation with the Stortinget. So to the question of whether we're doing the best alone. One of the most important things for me is the recognition that in a world where the power structures are changing, we are not doing better alone. And when I'm talking about power structure, I'm not talking about politics, I'm talking about some important principles like the rule of law. Then I believe that, together with European countries, we must be principled in these discussions, also in meeting with Member States that threaten these. Because we see a number of countries holding elections, but democracies are threatened from within. Freedom of the press and the rule of law must be developed. Under the pandemic – there I must be quite honest – we would not have done the best we could when we were going to have access to vaccines. We got that because Sweden was a very good neighbour and helped us access EU vaccines. We were not offered it by the United Kingdom. We were also not offered it by others. So that's probably an example of what we needed the cooperation that the European Union represents. When I was at the EEA Council yesterday, I got very good signals from the EU side, because what this pandemic has shown us is that we are too vulnerable in Europe in terms of access to, among other things. vaccines and infective equipment, so we need to build up a greater resilience on our continent. There may be some concerns that this is something the EU will do on its own, and that Norway, which is outside the EEA Agreement, cannot be involved in this. But I got quite specific invitations that we can attend this in the time that comes, and I think that is very, very important. Then I am the basic subject of investigations, and neither is it here that we decide the mandate for such an investigation through representatives' proposals in Stortinget. However, I believe that the previous European investigation, which was also widely criticised by the parties promoting criticism now, contributed to a good public discussion of the EEA Agreement. There are different opinions about the EEA in the government, but as an active EEA member, I would say that we serve to use the space for action in the EEA Agreement, for Norwegian interests are well cared for through the EEA. What has perhaps been most challenging and that we have to prevent, when we see that there are a lot of immigrants coming, as we need in Norwegian society, is what has happened in a lot of other countries: that Norwegian pay and working conditions are threatened. That's exactly why I'm proud that this government has agreed to reintroduce collective redress. Many of the migrant workers who come are unable to take sufficient care of their interests, and then we have strong trade unions to take care of them in the face of a single European labour market. This government is continuing to speed up the implementation of EU legal acts from 650 to 580 in September now. It is still not enough, but at least there is no brake on European policy. A more active European policy is increasingly about getting in touch with the cooperation we have with the EU through the EEA Agreement, and we will continue to do so in due course.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e518	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e523	Foreign Minister Huitfeldt clearly heard something I did not say, namely that it was a criticism of being critical of most. I didn't say that, but she obviously didn't hear what I said, and what I asked about. This concerns the part of the announced investigation to be concerned with the experience of related countries outside the EU that have other agreements with the EU. I have also previously tried to ask that question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, what the premise for that investigation should be. If the premise is that Norway is still in the internal market – which I hope it is – it is very incomprehensible to me why we should spend time investigating the agreements for two countries that are not in the internal market. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs clarify whether the premise should be that Norway should continue to be part of the internal market?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e530	That's a strange question -- the premise for investigations. I'm not used to the fact that there's an inquisition in the main hall in front. The representative will have a broad mandate for that investigation when it is presented. I believe that the criticism that is being made here is very recognizable. I believe that we should be open to discussions about Europe. And if we look back at what the Right Representatives said last time we promoted such an investigation, it was criticism along the same lines. I think we should have an open investigation, and then the representative will get an answer to how the investigation is formulated, and what is the mandate for it, when it is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e537	First, I want to brag by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who thought you had something to learn from each other. It's fine, it's rare to hear it from a government council, so I think it's very positive. First, a comment on these values is thought to be missing in Hungary and Poland: when EU and EEA countries push this, it creates a lot of anger and may make it worse, so maybe you have to take it a little calm before you require them to be just like us. They have a different story than us. But my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is about the pay and working conditions that you want, for example. Poles and others shall have in Norway and shall have Norwegian conditions. But it has to go the other way too, because Poland can say exactly the same thing. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree – that’s what I took up in my post – or will she push through that there should be Norwegian pay and working conditions in other countries as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e546	I cannot press Polish companies to introduce Norwegian pay and working conditions. It's solid. I think the representative has a point about the way in which we make criticism, but not in the case of Poland. In general, however, it does not help the harder you criticize and the stronger you use words — often the nail is harder to use. But as far as Poland is concerned, I do not entirely agree with the description that they are coming after us. Take, for example: Abortion legislation: Poland was a country that allowed abortion before, but when it has been banned, we do not see that this is an area where they have their culture, their history, and that they will gradually become modern. We prefer to see big backscrapers. We also see that in the question of the rule of law. So I mean we're going to combine. We should be principled, strong and clear on important legal principles and on issues of equality, women's right to determine their own bodies and the rights of homosexuals, but it is important to make appropriate criticisms.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e553	I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs on that point. I think that makes sense. But I'm afraid to press for rapid changes, also on the basic principles that we live under and that we think are right. They have a different story, they have a different religion, and if you look at Catholicism in Poland, it's quite conservative and it's always been. They were part of the Soviet Union for many years and have a different story. Then you can't immediately think of them as being the way we are. So I'd like to challenge in another area. We could get the same requirements for ourselves. It could be, for example, come from the European Union to demand that we end our oil production, or that we stop hunting for wolves, yews, whales and seals and everything we're doing, which they might say we'll do tomorrow. Would the Foreign Minister accept that? Or would she go into history and talk about self-determination, national culture, etc.? Or would she immediately stop producing oil if there was such a requirement?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e560	It's hard to give a general and fundamental answer to the big question. I believe that it is important that international societies, among others. through the Council of Europe, setting standards in Europe. Sometimes it also challenges us in a positive way, so I'm not against having UN committees that express their opinion on different parts of Norwegian society. That kind of criticism I think every society gets. My job is to balance the advice and criticism we may get from international organisations, with what is Norwegian national interests and to develop what is the action space for Norway. I am concerned when I see that the two countries that first went in the fight for democracy in Central Europe are moving in the opposite direction, and I think it is very important that we make a factual criticism of undermining the rule of law in these countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e567	If we are to achieve the climate objectives, all sectors must contribute. International shipping is no exception. Work is now under way in the IMO, where both the Norwegian and international shipping federations are in favour of a global CO 2 tax to advance the transition to zero emissions in the industry. The EU operates with a separate system, independent of the IMO. My question is what the Minister for Foreign Affairs will do to prevent the EU and the IMO from building up parallel systems and what can be called a regional patchwork of different regimes. What position will Norway support? Will Norway join the industry of the IMO or of the EU, which wants to integrate international shipping into the EU ETS?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e577	To the issue of Norwegian shipping interests: they have always been very strong and often not the same in terms of international competition, such as: The United States and other related countries, so that here we will take care of Norwegian interests in Norwegian shipping policy. I believe that what is Norway's role in part of these international negotiations is to find common solutions that we agree on. This role will also be played by Norway in such a context. It is quite obvious that if this market takes off, Norway has a very large comparative advantage. We have Norwegian shipyards that are far ahead in developing new technology. It will be important for Norway to have quite uniform legislation, both to help reduce emissions and to provide a larger market for Norwegian shipyards.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e584	Today we woke up to a sad news that 28 people have drowned in the English Channel in a desperate struggle for a better life, and it was a pregnant woman among those who ended their lives in Europe yesterday. England and France are alerting measures, and that is good, but the situation should probably be answered by more than just knocking down the traffickers. What role does the Council of State think Norway can play in European cooperation to prevent and prevent such disasters?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e589	In the current situation with regard to the situation in Belarus, which has also been up here in the main hall, I believe that we should take care of the people involved and who have been used in a cynical game by the President of Belarus. That's why we have, among other things. in cooperation with Lithuania, contributed to a number of meals and to beds, so that the humanitarian needs of migrants are met. We do it at the same time that we have to enforce strict border control, because we have no interest in vulnerable people being used in such a game. That is why new sanctions should also be introduced from the EU, including: targeting airlines, to which we will join in order to prevent this traffic where we see people being exploited. The most important thing we do is to build a solidarity pot, which is on the programme of this government, to give the refugees more help, but also to contribute to a fair quota system, so that those who need the most help will get help.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e597	Energy and working life are, of course, under other governments, but our relationship with the EU and the EEA is, of course, under the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. That is why we also have this debate today on the presentation and precisely these questions. So I would like to try to get an answer from the Minister of Foreign Affairs about our relationship with the EU and the EEA and the space for action in terms of electricity and energy prices. In his speech, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that we want to pay particular attention to ensuring national control in areas such as working life, energy and rail. It has been said in the previous debate that the EEA Agreement can prevent Norway from limiting energy exports and ensuring our security of supply. We now see Sweden limiting power exports, and similar measures are being taken by Germany. I would challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs to respond to whether the government will use the space for action and the provisions of the EEA Agreement, inter alia. Article 112, to instruct Statnet to reduce exports of electricity if it could threaten security of supply and not least increase electricity prices in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e606	As the representative says, this question has nothing to do with the ACER agreement. It is possible that the representative from Red thinks so, but this is a matter of Norwegian power policy. A decision has been made in this Chamber on the connection to Acer, and it does not have the meaning that the representative from Red is constantly trying to present it as. It was also underlined in a judgment that this is a completely legitimate decision on Norwegian accession to Acer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e611	It is not long since we were out there running election campaigns, and on company visits I have often experienced that one of the most important feedbacks I get is that you must not rock the EEA Agreement. The EEA Agreement is extremely important for Norwegian business, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs also clarified in his statement that she was a strong supporter of the EEA Agreement. Then we have this Hurdal platform and the investigation we are going to get around the EEA, and experience is to be gained from countries that do not have this kind of connection with the EU. Earlier in the reply, the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed that this would be an open investigation. I then assume that a possible outcome of such an investigation is a conclusion that you no longer want to have the EEA Agreement, and that you want to replace it with other agreements, such as the trade agreement we now have with the United Kingdom. Does the Foreign Minister think that there is a possible outcome?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e618	When we're going to have an open investigation, I think it would be very wrong if I came from the Parliament's pulpit – before we've written a mandate, and before we've appointed the committee – would say what I think will be the outcome of such an investigation. I believe that would be entirely contrary to the mission of an investigation. To rule out what people should think of in such an investigation, from the Stockholm pulpit, I think would be wrong. It is possible that the representative Arnstad will not agree with me on what I am going to say now, but as an EEA member, I believe that the people like me are getting stronger because we are discussing all the parts of EEA cooperation, both what is going well and where we are facing challenges. So I mean collectively that when we have an open discussion – and where as Minister of Foreign Affairs I have not concluded in advance on what should be the outcome of an investigation – we will have a stronger opening up to the EEA agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e625	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e630	I want to start by thanking the Foreign Minister for the good presentation she made here two days ago, and for her contributions today. There are important perspectives drawn up by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and a timely reminder of the importance of European cooperation for Norway. The different agreements we have with the EU are important both for foreign policy and domestic policy, and they affect most areas of society. The first area I want to take up and praise the government for taking hold of is the famous space for action. The EEA Agreement has served Norway well over a quarter of a century in total. We have experienced high growth in employment and real wages, stable wage negotiations and strong growth in public services. The agreement is not least essential for Norwegian districts and Norwegian exports. At the same time, large labour migration to Norway has also brought with it more challenges — and especially in the workplace. When the Hurdal platform emphatically states that the government is going to take the fight for the Norwegian working life model by making better use of the scope of action in the agreement, it is a matter of love. Here was the Right-Registration for passive. Much more can and must be done to ensure orderly working conditions and proper pay and working conditions, and there is active European policy in practice. I also want to comment on the notified investigation on the challenges and opportunities of the EEA Agreement – and there are positive rates. We have a healthy disagreement about the European Union and the EEA in society, and so do we here in the house. But we can all agree that up-to-date knowledge is important for the Norwegian social debate, and we should not fear it. The EEA Agreement is despite all the most comprehensive agreement Norway has ever concluded, and the investigation shall be research-based and knowledge-based, highlighting the challenges and opportunities the agreement has provided to Norway in the last 10 years. I think the investigation will enrich and contribute to the important and very necessary societal debate we have on our EEA agreement. And the undersigned is also of the same opinion as the Council of State, that the investigation is likely to contribute to a greater conclusion on the EEA Agreement in Norway. A very clear trend, which was also highlighted by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his speech, is that the EU strengthens its role as a security policy actor. In a time more unstable and unpredictable world, the stable relationship we have with the EU through the EEA Agreement has become perhaps even more important, because now we see the tension between the major acts increasing. Many of them also have interests in our region in the north. We see that the relationship between NATO and Russia is cold and that disarmament agreements are being undermined and abandoned. To that end, Norway needs to work actively with the EU and other cooperation countries to promote our views and priorities in the international arena. Cooperation is essential for our long-term security, and we must avoid major powers drawing in conflicts that do not concern the northern regions of Arctic cooperation. It is important to note that the EU as a security policy actor is not a competitor of NATO but builds directly under the allies’ ability to cooperate and to NATO’s credibility. Norway’s participation in the EU Defence Fund is positive and will strengthen the Norwegian defence industry and allow for enhanced access to the European defence market. There are different opinions about what kind of association Norway should have with the EU, but I think most people will agree that what the world looks like right now is in our interest that Europe has a strong position to defend multilateral cooperation and a rule-based world order. The Hurdal Platform notes that Norway’s main strategic area of interest is the North. We know who the neighbor is, and we'll talk to him well. However, it is necessary that we also fence around the close cooperation Norway has with the EU in the field of foreign and security policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e649	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a very broad presentation in which our ties with Europe are confirmed. This is not unexpected – Europe is our continent, both politically, economically and culturally. Much is going well in Europe, but Europe also has its challenges. In fact, Europe is the only continent with a declining population and an ageing population. The people of Europe are the oldest. The population of Africa is the youngest. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that labour immigration has been a good thing and has been important. That's right. However, the long-term problem may be that the EU's overall labour needs cannot be resolved through the EU's own labour force and through labour immigration between EU countries. Germany notices it very strongly in these days. Germany has a solid need for labour. During the debate on new migration laws in Germany, we saw that there was a great resistance to opening up labour immigration from outside the EU to meet the need for labour in Germany. What does it have to do with the debate here in Stortinget now? Well, Europe and Norway may be faced with a choice that promotes — either less value creation, less well-being, or increased labour migration from other parts of the world, with the challenges it may have. The Government will have an investigation into the EEA Agreement. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is an express member of the EEA and wants a strong debate. All right. The EEA should be examined, but the result should not surprise anyone. What the debate leads to, and whether it will be developing, yes it remains to be seen. At least the EU has been aware that access to the internal market requires either being a member of the EU or being a member of the EEA Agreement. Such an investigation should also address what is really the real alternative to the EEA Agreement, namely EU membership. A membership may address some of the shortcomings of the current EEA Agreement. The belief in the excellence of the railway monopoly is boundless in the government and becomes more and more boundless further out on the left side, despite the fact that the experience with such monopoly is quite poor. Competitive outsourcing activities include: to keep the variable costs of railway operation in check. The alternative is government deficit coverage, which really only gives incentives to waste. But the most important thing about this Railway Directive is to standardise railway operation in Europe. Europe has at least four different types of railway tracks, making railway operations difficult. And there is a need to standardise both the signalling system and the electricity supply. These are elements that this government will not take inwards. The cut-off EU trailer, Chancellor Helmut Kohl, said: the dogs are barking, but the caravan is moving forward. It was his perception of the EU. The same can be said about the EU in these days. The EU has passed the test after the covid-19 epidemic, which has hit so strongly. The world has become smaller, and Europe has become smaller. Norway has also benefited from EU cooperation on vaccines and the management of the epidemic. I noticed that yesterday the Foreign Minister at the Foreign Magazine at the NRK said that Norway should strengthen its defence in cooperation with the Nordics and Germany. I agree. Chancellor Merkel has said that Europe must now take its own destiny. Well to note, it was said at the moment when the United States withdrew from the nuclear agreement with Iran, but we have to insist that the United States is our closest and most important ally. This may indicate that Merkel has taken too strong words in his mouth here, for Germany is far less than granting 2 pst. of the gross domestic product of the defence budget. We met German politicians in the last period of the Foreign and Defence Committee where they said it was clear that Germany would not be able to meet this requirement in 2024. Finally, it is very important for Norway to follow and also participate in foreign and security policy initiatives taken in the EU, and also outside the EU. [[President clubs]] There we are, among others. to a French initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e672	The number is out – and the representative must respect that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e677	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a reflected statement. The representative Arnstad gave a good account of the central party’s primary position in relation to both the EU and the EEA, and not least governance through cooperation and compromise. I fully share that point of view. The national State will always be the main framework for political action and, not least, accountability for the decisions that affect the daily lives of the most people. This should not be powdered in such a way as to compromise legal certainty and our clear objectives for a welfare country. Nevertheless, we are obviously dependent on well-functioning international cooperation, a shared understanding of key global issues must be at the root. It is therefore important that the debate on European policy be reopened on the Grand Duchy, as the Foreign Minister now invites. The Hurdal Platform identifies the importance of Nordic and European countries as partners. This applies in many areas, both politically and economically. I very much agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that Nordic cooperation is an important part of the government's European policy, because Nordic cooperation increases the chances of getting through to the European arena. In 2022 Norway takes over the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers and Nordic cooperation. That role must be used to raise important issues in European work. We are faced with major changes in many areas that require us to stand together. Political decisions in the fields of energy, the environment and working life will be demanding, but will also create room for development. We must never forget that. Regardless of alliances, we have a strong Nordic community of interests, and regardless of the country's relationship with the EU, we share the ambition that the Nordic region should be a priority region in terms of industrial development, climate and the environment. The debate on Europe is good for Norway. The EEA Agreement and our cooperation with Europe greatly affect Norwegian interests, both directly and indirectly. I attend the government's rapid initiative to set up an investigation into the experience of EEA cooperation in the last ten years. The EEA Agreement is the most comprehensive agreement and perhaps not least the most in-depth agreement Norway has ever concluded. It's partly very inaccessible to most, and has the ability to see the whole. A thorough, open and sound critical review of the experience gained from EEA cooperation is therefore essential. I think I'll go further than the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who'll focus on updating knowledge. The most important thing for the future must be to form an agreement that provides a space for action for Norway and, in particular, exploits the space for action that exists. Such an approach will be very important, useful and not least positive for the Norwegian social debate. As I see it, the investigation will start in the new year, and that's good. Conversion offers opportunities to develop technology, competitiveness and growth in the years to come. We're not going to be a European green battery, we're going to be an important part of the engine. Norway has a unique competence that has developed in cycles where natural resources in the broadest sense have been very important for the development of Norway’s prosperity. For Norway, there has been a success story with strong national ownership of Community resources. The previous government announced in Prop. 1 S an EU/EEA work programme already in January. We – this government – will have a complete review of EU cooperation in important areas in line with the Hurdal platform before you land on a work programme. This government doesn't want to go in ascending tracks, we have to set the tracks ourselves. We also want to pay particular attention to ensuring control in areas such as Norwegian working life, energy and rail, and there should be Norwegian pay and working conditions. This market in which they are going to work, as politicians, we need to contribute to making available to Norwegian research and innovation environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e694	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e699	If we don't hang out, we're stuck together. It wasn't European cooperation Jan P. Syse had in mind when those words fell, but it could have been. The great challenges of our time have in common that they cannot be solved in solitude. Norway’s relationship with the EU through the EEA Agreement is therefore a necessary, albeit insufficient, cooperation mechanism with the main political community in our part of the world and is essential for the ability to care for Norwegian interests. The Minister for Foreign Affairs highlighted a number of important issues that are currently being addressed in the EU, and I would like to take the opportunity to highlight the EU's climate policy agenda. Norway’s accession to the EU climate policy framework is crucial for Norwegian enterprises, which can compete on a level playing field in the European market. Europe is not just politically linked. We're interdependent. Energy policy has given us a clear reminder of this in recent months. High gas prices, CO 2 prices that have now passed EUR 70 per tonne and a lot of dry and quiet weather have significantly affected power prices. Our Swedish friends have reduced power exports to Norway, and Statnett has responded by reducing power exports to Sweden. The consequences of this on security of supply in Norway, price developments in force and the duration of this situation are unclear, but the government must know its visitation time is beyond doubt. Fortunately, we have the opportunity to complain about such cases for ACER. The power situation in Europe this autumn has also shown the dependence of European countries on Norwegian gas. It underlines that unilateral phasing out of Norwegian gas production and exports until good alternatives are in place will lead to an energy crisis in Europe. Towards 2050, Europe is going through an enormous transformation to achieve its climate objectives. There are great opportunities for Norway. We have technologies, competences, capital and natural resources that together can mean a lot for our common ability to achieve the goals, but also for Norwegian jobs and value creation. But it also requires political will and action. Marine wind in the North Sea can be of great importance, the basis is laid, two areas are available for development: Southern North Sea II and Utsira North, with a roof of 4.5 GWh installed power. But it just has to be the beginning. The government must immediately initiate work on creating a new area. However, the most important thing is to clarify the framework conditions to be observed by actors, such as: hybrid cables. Norway may also be part of the carbon capture and storage solution when the cap has the capacity to store 80 billion. tonnes of CO 2. The interests of Langskip and Northern Lights are great in Europe. If we succeed in the cost-effective capture and storage of CO 2, there are also great opportunities for blue hydrogen produced in Norwegian natural gas to be a significant part of the solution on the road towards net zero and full decarbonisation. The energy content of the oil and gas we are exporting to Europe today is about 8 000 TWh. By comparison, about 135 TWh of hydropower is produced in Norway. Even with large-scale energy efficiency improvements and massive renewable energy deployment, it will be difficult to achieve net zero without the use of hydrogen. So there are great opportunities for Norway here, but the government must pursue an active European policy in order to safeguard Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e726	I am glad that the Minister for Foreign Affairs came here to the Storting on Tuesday and said that she would stand up for a clear, open and cooperating Europe, because it is just an open and cooperating Europe we need to solve many of the challenges we face – it is economics, pandemic or climate. There's hardly any challenge there's any more important with international cooperation than the climate crisis, and that's why I want to use my very first post in this room to talk about that. Norway shall not be a brake block in international climate cooperation. On the contrary, we're going to be a leading country and a strong driver for cutting emissions, both at home and at home, for Norway is going to live by saving the climate. Over the last 60 years, our country has made a lot of money to export Norwegian oil and gas. We've been at the forefront of technology, and we've led by new solutions that are being used around the world today. Now that we're taking the steps into the renewable society, that's exactly this mentality we need. We're going to be the best at carbon capture and storage, we're going to be the best at battery production and green industry, and we're going to be the best at green energy production. And our solutions, Norway's solutions, we're going to export the world. It creates values, creates jobs – and most importantly, it helps cut emissions, not just here at home, but across Europe. I belong to a generation that is concerned about the future. We are impatient and eager to find the solutions we need to secure future generations of a planet we can live on. Norway does not solve the climate crisis alone, but neither do we solve the climate crisis by pointing to everyone else without doing anything on their own. That's why I'm also optimistic, because I see a government that is more forward-looking towards our European friends, who are equally impatient and eager to cut emissions, create jobs and give my generation a future we can believe in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e737	The world has never had more people on the run – on the run from war, persecution and poverty. We see crowded refugee camps around the world, but also here, in our Europe. These are desperate people, people with individual stories about the way to this intermediate station, who, unfortunately, can become an end station. Numerous bad stories are being communicated – not least from relief organisations and volunteers – that are creating ever stronger reactions, including in this country. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees is asking Norway to take greater responsibility. But that is not the reality. On the contrary, policies are being tightened up both in terms of how many we are willing to provide protection and in terms of the mechanisms that could help those who are on the run and in danger in Europe. The EU is rarely a good contributor to this. Nor are we working to build obstacles and walls to shut people out, as we are now looking at the border between Poland and Belarus. Now we hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs being quite clear that Norway is supporting EU policy on this, and that Poland is also not giving the opportunity to apply for asylum. The UN supports the Foreign Minister's assessment that Belarus has a great responsibility in the situation we now see at the borders of the country. But it'll be a little easy to push these migrants' lives into nothing to drive politics both ways. Conflicts have as they know at least two parties, and when an innocent third party, who calls and saves children, pays the price, it simply becomes an inhuman approach. Norway has contributed EEA funds to build and strengthen the EU’s external borders. We have helped to facilitate the fences that now block people out – people who are not allowed to try their case and who in the event could get protection. It's big politics, and it's power struggle. But there's also a refugee crisis right outside our door. Now, today, there are hundreds, probably still thousands, who freeze in a forest where the media and relief organizations don't let go. And out in Europe there are even more refugee camps where people go to an ice cold Christmas meeting, without security, warmth or hope. SV hopes that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will take this perspective into account in European and also Nordic cooperation, that we will contribute with ours, that Norway will take a joint responsibility to help people escape, and that we will stand up for the right to apply for asylum.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e752	When the EU and EEA are discussed in the Home country, I tend to ask: What would the industrial park at Raufoss look like if it had not been for the EEA Agreement? What had been the development of Mapei and 7-strong in the Kongsvinger region? Had the other companies in the Inland created more jobs, increased exports and put in a healthy position? Had we seen businesses flag home production and building new large industrial buildings, and how had agriculture been able to cope without labour from the EEA territory? Without labour immigration, the domestic population would have been significantly lower than it is today, and the average age of the population would have been even higher. The EEA Agreement is more important for the Inland than it is for Oslo. It ensures a level playing field for rural establishments and the predictability of the placing on the market of their goods. In addition, it ensures access to rural labour from the rest of Europe, and it gives our businesses access to a market of 500 million Europeans. The EEA Agreement is crucial for our businesses and businesses. The entrance ticket we pay to be in the EEA is actually a gold ticket to the future and the security of our future welfare services. We need more international cooperation. Through international cooperation, we take home research resources and competences. Norwegian students and researchers become part of an international environment that makes our environments of competence look like something to look for. They become a part of something bigger, and not least it contributes to our students getting a competitive education, which, after all, is important when competing in a global labour market. We have some natural advantages in Norway. We are rich in natural resources, we have a stable climate, and we are a country with high confidence and stable political situation. This, in combination with the great potential of EEA membership by means of research and innovation, gives us the opportunity to solve world problems, because the wise minds of Raufoss, who are best in the world in their area, are in combination with water and forest much of what is needed to trigger the great opportunities that lie in the green shift. Not only are we going to solve the climate challenge, we are going to create more high-tech jobs in the private sector, and the EEA is the key to it. In fact, although some people like to repeat the well-known words ‘It’s typical Norwegian to be good’, our greatest challenges, such as climate, pandemic and poverty, have to be solved with international cooperation. We need more international cooperation – not less.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e767	Norway said no to the EC in 1972 and to the EU in 1994. The inhabitants of Norway wanted them to be run by the populace here in Stortinget, not from Brussels. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his speech to the Stortinget this week that a European debate is important. I totally agree with the minister, and it must be based on knowledge and facts, so that we get real persuasion, not just polarized debates. The EEA Agreement entered into force on 1 January 1994, without public procurement. The EEA – the European Economic Area – can give the impression that this is purely commercial cooperation, a modernised free trade agreement. However, since 1994, more than 13 000 Directives, regulations and other EU legislation have been introduced in Norwegian laws and regulations. How many of these people know Norwegian voters? ACER, energy and rail packages and the social security scandal are some areas where the impact of these agreements has been identified. The EEA Agreement is dynamic and is bounding on an increasing number of areas of society the power and image of our populous magnificence, and it also affects local democracy. A report prepared for the CS by the Institute of Urban and Regional Research in 2018 showed that the EU and EEA get direct follow-up, both legally and politically, to 50 pst. of all matters of municipal government and county council. Planning and construction projects, public support, public procurement, water, sewerage and renovation, environment, energy, climate and transport are areas that will be affected. The agreement also provides for beneficial owners of Norway and Norwegian inhabitants, but when one sees how EU legislation is now intervening and challenges how we in Norway are going to conduct employment, energy and rail policies, to name a few, we elected people must gain greater and more holistic insight into the impact of the EEA Agreement on Norway. I am therefore very pleased that the government is now proposing to make greater use of the scope of the EEA Agreement to ensure national control in important areas and to work more actively to promote Norwegian interests within the Agreement. The fact that experience from neighbouring countries outside the EU and their alternative agreements with the EU will also have to be disseminated would provide knowledge of Norway’s alternatives to the EEA Agreement. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said at the inception of Tuesday that the government should carry out an award in order to assess the experience of EEA cooperation in the last 10 years. This is important to gain insight into and disseminate knowledge about, in order to know how intrusive the agreements are for Norway. In the settings of the Labour and Social Committee for the consideration of Meld. St. 40 for 2016-2017, Exports of Norwegian welfare services, show members of the Committee from the Central Party and SV that the terms of the international agreements intervene in national legislation. There's a lot we can learn about the experience from the last ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e786	The new government has won a choice that challenges EU directives and policies. The Hurdal platform determines that the action space shall be put into service with particular emphasis on ensuring, inter alia: national control on the energy market. This fall we have had a tight situation in the water storage facilities and sky-high electricity prices. Nevertheless, Norway has driven massive exports of power and thus also linked us more closely to the European electricity market at corresponding high European electricity prices. This is profitable for the power companies, and it may seem that the main concern that is governing energy policy today is what is profitable for the power industry. The importance of energy security and the degree of supply must be relaxed. I have previously asked whether the government will not use the action space in Section 112 of the EEA Agreement to ensure the energy supply and safety of households and Norwegian industry. The Minister for Oil and Energy has replied and stated in the media that it could be contrary to international obligations. But now we see that Sweden has decided to limit its exports of power in EU legislation. I am therefore surprised to note that the new government in energy policy must be more Catholic than the pope. While EU countries regulate the energy of social needs and considerations, there seems to be another principle that applies here at home: an invisible market spirit that graphs for more money. I hope the government is serious about formulations of taking action in energy policy rather than continuing the right-wing and EU orthodox market faith, not least in energy policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e797	As other representatives have stated, developments in neighbouring countries also concern me — countries receiving significant transfers from Norway. The negative development in Poland is a bad example of this. In recent years, skepticism has seen that their freedom is gradually being reduced. LHBTI individuals are now more vulnerable to hate attacks and crime than a few years ago. Equality marches and LHBTI markings have met with violence. And when the hatred grows and becomes so extensive that it is formalized in so-called LHBTI-free zones, it is not surprising that many skews lose faith in their own future. At one time about one third of Poland had declared LHBTI-free zone. Therefore, it was quite right for the former Foreign Minister to go out and stop transfers of EEA funds to municipalities in Poland that have declared themselves to be such zones. I am glad that the current Foreign Minister says she will continue this. At the same time, four hundred municipalities have turned around, not what this representative will call significant progress. The question I now hope the Minister for Foreign Affairs will ask is whether what we are doing is enough and whether it is strong enough. Perhaps you should ask yourself whether there is a basis for the payment of EEA funds to the Polish State at all. Behind the hatred is a regime that actively facilitates development, through both opinions, campaigns and legal action, not only the country's efforts to preserve minorities, but the legal state's fundamental mechanisms go up in gluing. I hope that the reactions of Norway so far have been effective. At the same time, I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs not only accepts adjustments that are made in response, but actually goes in to see if the changes are real to those affected. This is not a question of requiring Poland and any other countries in a similar situation to Norway to have the same laws and regulations, it is a matter of Poland respecting the fundamental rights to which they themselves have committed themselves, inter alia. EMK. But for us here and now, there is also a question about Norwegian citizens via the tax form should be involved and legitimize such a development through economic transfers. Finally, I would like to stress that it is precisely close European cooperation that is at the bottom of trade cooperation, which puts us in a position to influence the situation. So the answer in the future must also be more European cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e810	Some challenges are so big that they can't be solved in this room. Greenhouse gas emissions do not stop at borders, and they are a threat to all life on earth. Climate change is also a reminder of how important it is for countries to come together and create common rules. If we do not commit across borders, it will never pay off at all to pursue a policy on emissions reduction. This is perhaps why EU cooperation has become one of our most successful climate action and should continue to be so. If we're going to achieve our climate goals, we're not going beyond the EU. It is because we have the EEA agreement that the ports of Kristiansand have been able to build Europe's largest terrestrial power plant with EU funds. It is because of the EEA Agreement that Agder Energie at home in South Africa literally illuminates Europe with Norwegian green force. That's good for the climate. It is good for jobs, and it is good for Norwegian economy. I was born after the cold war, and as I grew up, the European Union has built up democracy, human rights and market economy in countries that were previously ruled by the Soviet Union. Now for the first time in my lifetime, I experience a world of more protectionism and fewer alliances. Norway’s response must then always be less protectionism and more and stronger alliances. In other words, the EU has never been more important. In his statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that she wanted an active European policy, and that is very good. However, in the same statement, she said that the EEA Agreement should be examined, and the Hurdal platform clearly rejects Norway’s application for EU membership. I really believe in the foreign minister's commitment to EU cooperation, but I do not trust that the government partner is as willing to pursue the active European policy with which Norway is served. Finally, there is, fortunately, a very good alternative to the EEA Agreement, and I am not talking about the EEA-light agreement to Switzerland or the chaos in the United Kingdom, but about Norwegian EU membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e823	Norwegian self-determination and our national space of action depend entirely on an economically robust, democratic and peaceful Europe. When Norway chose to join the EEA, it was precisely to safeguard Norwegian interests. That is why I am very pleased that the EEA Agreement has a strong upsurge in the Norwegian population. But I have to admit that to me there will be some sort of intellectual collapse when someone says that they are in favour of the EEA Agreement, but against the EU. The existence of the EU is a prerequisite for the EEA. Without the EU, we would have different trade agreements with 27 countries, which would create trade barriers for Norwegian businesses, thereby ensuring Norwegian jobs throughout the country through the EEA Agreement. Before the summer, Jonas Gahr compared a study of alternatives to the EEA agreement with telling the wife that you want to explore alternatives to marriage. He's about it. I am not afraid of the results of an investigation, because I am convinced that the alternatives chosen by the government are worse alternatives. But I wish the government were willing to investigate the option that ensures full participation and influence, namely full membership. I guess the government is afraid of the outcome of such an investigation. It could provide a fact-based basis for a better EU debate than the one we have today. For the EU, more than the world’s largest integrated market is. Not only does the EU contribute to social cohesion between countries, but the EU also guarantees democratic rights and opportunities for individuals. The EU is taking the lead in ensuring better international taxation of large multinationals, which helps Norwegian companies to compete not only internationally but also here in Norway. Not least, the EU is the largest climate movement in the world, with both the will and the means to fulfil the Paris Agreement and ensure a solid green shift that provides a basis for growth and development across Europe. I am also pleased that the government is following the line of the Solberg government in terms of democratic development and human rights in Europe. It is quite right to hold back EEA funds to Polish municipalities that declare themselves to be LHBTI-free zones, but when Poland now refuses to deal with the UN Commission on Human Rights, I believe that we can take a step further. They undermine the free courts and the State of law and no longer deal with common rules and European obligations. There is a breach of the conditions for the EEA Agreement. With reference to the Convention, the Minister of Foreign Affairs reminded us of the importance of harmonising laws and regulations in order to ensure friction-free trade, which is so important to Norwegian interests. Of course, Norway will use the space for action within the EEA Agreement, and I expect this government – like the previous one – to take advantage of it. But when it comes to setting the limits of Norway’s most important cooperation, I will use Anne Grete Preus’s words that sometimes – sometimes – is one millimeter enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e836	Maybe the end of the previous article shows the difference between the previous one and this government, for some, is one millimeter enough, while others like to have one meter. This government in the Hurdals platform decides that we should work for a safer, fairer and greener foreign policy, and it is important that we are on the verge of ambition for our European policy. We have a troubled landscape behind us, where the greatest threat is the emergence of anti-democratic ideologies – and also land. Our internal security cannot be created alone. That is why it is essential that we work to strengthen democracy and human rights out there, as we have done to Poland and Hungary. This government states that freedom of expression and human rights should ensure the emergence of legal states, including in our countries of cooperation. That means that we must be active in our dialogue with countries, with people and with civil society. The Labour Party has great ambitions there. Because if we're to create security, we need to talk to people. If we're going to make peace between nations, we're going to have to talk to nations. We must ensure that we have an open, secure and clear dialogue, both with people and with the states. When our government says we're going to have an investigation of the EEA issue, it's just an invitation to come up, be clear, have an open discussion on a fact-based basis and break opinions in Norway about this important field. When we talk about getting better at caring for Norwegian interests, it means that we need to get up on the toe and have a concrete dialogue with the EU to find what best serves Norway's interests, and not automatically accept the signals coming from the EU in all cases. That is why we have said that we should engage in dialogue on ensuring exemptions from the fourth railway package. Finally, I would like to say that the values that this government uses to take workers' rights seriously, also permeate the requirements we will set to conclude trade agreements. ILO conventions shall also underpin these important areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e849	Now at the end of the debate, I think it's in place to say that it's very positive with the speeches today that have given very clear support to what has been a clear Norwegian line against Hungary and Poland. I can assure the Minister for Foreign Affairs that she and the Government have full support from the Right in the further conditioning of the EEA funds and also in the work on civil society. I myself have been to Hungary and visited civil society organisations that could not book regular meeting rooms because they were specified by those who hired them out. They had little or no funds available, but they were still crystal clear on one thing: that in the choice of civil society resources through EEA funds and that we and the other donors were on the principles of independence, the last thing that was important was that. It was an incredibly important message for us and an important input into our work on EEA funds. Then I want to spend the last few minutes on what I find to be a rather eye-catching response from the Minister of Foreign Affairs to this investigation of the experience of EEA cooperation. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that the investigation should be completely open. There are at least two challenges to that reasoning. Firstly, it should not be more open than excluding any investigation of closer links with the EU than we have today. The second is that if the Hurdals platform is to be taken seriously, it is there that the EEA Agreement should be based, and the whole premise of the EEA Agreement is that we are part of the internal market. So when I ask about the premise that we're going to be part of the internal market, is the basis of the investigation, and gets the answer that it's strange to be asked about this in the Storting, and that there's going to be a completely open investigation, I have to honestly say that I'm getting a little confused about what's actually the policy. I think we can establish that the Central Party has had a heavy hand on the steering wheel in the design of the Hurdal platform and European government policy. It should not, to any extent, reassure either business or districts. I must also say that when I hear the representative, Mr Fasterale, in his speech, saying that you do not want to create a work programme for cooperation with the EU for 2022 as early as possible because you want to have a complete review of the EEA cooperation before a new work programme, it may take quite a while before that work programme arrives. It will have the simple consequence that Norway is slowing down in cooperation with the EU. We lose the opportunity to have an early and clear impact, and we lose the opportunity to attend to Norwegian interests in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e859	At Helsfyr here in Oslo lies Nordox, an industrial company with 72 employees producing copper oxide, which they have been doing for 135 years. Their products are used in particular for two things: most of them go to bottoms on ships all over the world, while the rest go to plant protection products in agriculture. The company has customers in over 80 countries, and of what is produced, 90 pst. exported globally, via a port in an EU country. During my visit to the company, the message was clear. The EEA Agreement is crucial for them; they depend on exports being seamless. It's about document flow, registration and transportation. With time-critical deliveries and an increasingly complicated registration work, they depend on everything going painless. The message we received from the company and the trustees was clear and clear: a stamp that products come from the EU/EEA area is the guarantor of Nordox’s existence – the guarantor of export and production, the guarantor of workplaces. There is a broad consensus that the security of market access to our main economic area provided by the EEA Agreement has served Norway well. 80 pst. of our exports go to Europe, and the EEA Agreement is important for Norwegian industry and jobs in Norway. It ensures predictability and equal competition. Therefore, it is of course important that the Hurdals platform makes such a clear determination that the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy are established, including the conclusion of the EEA Agreement. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in his good and thorough presentation, was also clear on this. I also share the foreign minister's view that the debate on Norway's relationship with Europe is good. We must never be afraid to get more facts and knowledge on the table. I am more concerned that our relationship with Europe and the EEA Agreement is being discussed without the facts being the basis for the discussion. For many years we have seen developments in Norwegian working life characterised by unprofessional actors and social dumping. Many have blamed the EEA Agreement for this and for others that are bad and difficult. It's getting too simple. These are challenges in Norwegian working life, and fortunately we have a government that is now starting to clean up the labour market. A Norway model for acquisitions and other measures is the way to go. What is bad and difficult in working life in Norway, we solve through offensive labour policies, laws and regulations in Norway. I am also pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government are clearly addressing the challenges and concerns of many of us relating to democracy in some European countries. In its statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs draws up Poland and Hungary. Finally, the answers to our common challenges and problems are no less cooperation and more alone. The challenges of our time – not least in the climate field – are crying out for more international cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e878	It's been an interesting debate. It has been influenced by the different views we have — perhaps especially on EU membership, I would say after sitting here and listening to the speeches. In a way, there's also a slightly confusing debate, and I can exemplify it with the conclusion of an article by one of the Right's representatives, which was that we need more international cooperation, not less. Yes, I fully agree with that – and I think there is no one here in this room who does not agree with it. That's why there's a little bit of a fog about this kind of debate. I collect a little bit of that kind of statement along the way in the debates. Take, for example: that one must be for the EU because one is for international cooperation: no, one is not against international cooperation because one is against EU membership. We know it's not like that. If you are against new power cables for the EU or the United Kingdom, then you are against power exchange. No, one isn't – we've had a power exchange for 30 years. The question is how much capacity will be put into the power cables we build on. Another statement was that major challenges cannot be solved in isolation – or alone, as the previous speaker said. No, but no one's serious. Everyone thinks that we should have good and important international cooperation, and there are great opportunities in any international cooperation, but we must always take care of Norwegian interests. There was also a post where someone said that our students become part of a larger international cooperation. Yes, they have been since the mid-1980s, completely without EU membership – and without EEA agreement as well, in fact – and it is important that they can continue to be in the future. My point is that this eternal suggestion of being for international cooperation is the same as being for EU membership, it is wrong. Let us agree that there may be different opinions about the EU and the EEA, but there is no one in this room who is opposed to international cooperation. I also have to say that I find it interesting to register that there are more people in the Chamber who argue for EU membership than for the EEA. I think that's okay – it's clarifying, I think it's honest. But this is something quite different from the EEA Agreement and the presentation of the EEA Agreement, and it is a position that is fair and fair, but it does not support the Norwegian population very much. Then I want to end by saying something that in many ways might be a little paradoxical, but that I actually think. The opinion of the centre party is that we want an active European policy, not a servil, and the paradox is that in many ways the centre party has more faith in the EU than the Norwegian yes parties have. We believe in cooperation with the EU based on clear language and a clear indication of what is Norwegian interest, and also of what is EU interest in the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e899	Thank you for a good debate, which in turn is taking into account the tension in Norwegian European policy. We've been in most areas. First to the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde, who usually in political debates is very afraid of our values: he suddenly had a very relaxed relationship to stand up for equality and the right to live his own life. We have to respect the religions and traditions of others, says Tybring-Gjedde. I disagree with the entry of the Progress Party into this matter, because this is not about Norwegian values, it is about universal human rights. I think it is good that we in Norway use our voice when things go wrong, when homophobic zones are established in Poland, when the courts lose their legitimacy, when women activists meet with violence, and when equality goes wrong. I am pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs announced in his presentation a full review of the funds to Poland. Then there is a fairly predictable criticism from the parties on the right that the EEA Agreement is at stake. Well, the Hurdal Declaration says very clearly that the EEA Agreement is firm. I really lack self-confidence on the right side of the EEA Agreement. Getting more knowledge is good for the deal. I think an investigation is going to lead to a greater legitimacy for the agreement. The right-hand side, after the lost elections, has made it its habit in foreign policy to be very concerned about what kind of form the new government has in its work. The most eye-catching thing would have been if the Minister of Foreign Affairs had a clear mandate for an investigation to come next year, in a line exchange here in Stortinget. We never saw that the right parts did when they ran. That is what lies in the responsibility between government and big business. The right parties are talking about an active European policy that is really not to mean that much. I'm thinking the opposite. An active European policy is to stand up to Norwegian interests, promote them in Europe and say when we disagree. The EEA Agreement was not challenged by the use of the right of reservation by the Stoltenberg Government against the Postal Directive. It won't be challenged when we tell you about our opinion. Marit Arnstad said in his fine speech that she gathered at quotes. Perhaps the best thing to quote from this debate is that Heidi Nordby Lunde felt that being against Norwegian EU membership and for the EEA Agreement was an ‘intellectual collapse’. Well, that's where the majority of Norwegian voters lie, also the majority of Right's own voters. I believe that to stand up for our affairs also up against Europe is to serve the EEA matter. Finally, the previous government traveled to Brussels and promised to be obedient. The problem was they didn't have a majority in this room. It was both the ostetoll case, in which they did not have a majority, and when, after they lost the election, they included the railway package in the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e912	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e931	One of the most important things that people must work for is that all people should be able to manage themselves, live a life of their own and take an active part in the Norwegian community. It's important that we take care of it for everyone, but it may be especially important that we have a special effort aimed at immigrants. That is why the Right has twice implemented major reforms in integration policy, first with Erna Solberg as Minister for Municipalities and then with Jan Tore Sanner as Minister for Knowledge and Integration. Immigrants are not a uniform group, but the challenge is that too many immigrants, especially those with a refugee background, are too weakly linked to working life. About two out of three are in work or education one year after the introduction programme. The proportion of men in work or education is also higher than that of women. That's not good enough, and that's something we have to do with. There are several reasons for these challenges. One of the reasons for this is the lack of Norwegian knowledge. With its integration reform, the right has implemented several important changes in Norwegian training, for which we have not yet seen the results. Another important reason is that many do not have the formal competence that the labour market demands. Half of those who come to Norway as refugees only have primary schools as their highest level of education. At the same time, we know that Norwegian business and working life demand more and more skills. Let me do an example. At Nrk.no we could some time back read the story of Farhiyo Ahmed, who came to Norway from Somalia 17 years ago. She had tried the language training system in practice for half a year, but many of the participants in the course stayed without a job after the practice period. Why? Yes, because most jobs required professional letters. That's why the practice candidate race, where you get the opportunity to take a letter, was the rescue for Ahmed. Employment subsidies and action places are very important to ensure that the threshold is lower and the way into work is shorter, that more people learn Norwegian and become part of the community and manage themselves. However, the point is that grants and action places alone do not solve the basic challenge, which is that there are too many who lack formal competence. What can solve this challenge is good initial training, the ability to take education both for adults and for young people. It brings me to the point that it is important that we talk about those who are newcomers, but it is also important that we have a special focus on Norwegian-born immigrant parents who also need good follow-up. Many who are born in Norway by immigrant parents are doing incredibly well in both school and working life. There are many, especially girls, who perform extremely well, but at the same time we know that these are some challenges. For the Right, it is important that all children have the same opportunities, regardless of who their parents are. There we are once again to the fact that the key to success in that is good education, that's the possibility of being allowed to go to kindergarten, which also gives good language skills. We know that there are more and more children with immigrant backgrounds going to kindergarten, but there are still fewer than in the population. We have to do something about that, and that's one of the reasons why the Solberg government prioritised free core time. The second is a good school, where the most important is training in basic skills such as reading, writing and billing. If you want to succeed, you have to bet on a good teacher who promises all students, which will also lead to more people completing higher education and getting a better relationship with the world of work. Seeing integration and education in the context is crucial if we are to succeed in the long term. That is why I am also surprised that the government chooses to shift responsibility for this important field to the Minister of Labour – not because work is not important for integration, but because it does not solve the basic challenge of getting more people into the labour market. In fact, integration and education policy must be seen in the context. For this reason, I would like to ask the Council of State: how will she ensure that the good skills enhancement tools that were – or are located – under the territory of the Ministry of Knowledge do not disappear or become a priority in the integration policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e952	Let me first thank the representative Holm Lønneth for bringing up a very important theme. Unfortunately, the number of young people in low-income households has increased significantly over time, and there is a rather large proportion of these young people with a migrant background. This is closely related to the fact that we have seen an increase in the number of families with immigrant backgrounds and that parents are not fully involved in the labour market. In addition, we see an accumulation of poverty and living conditions challenges in some areas of major cities. For this reason, it is also important to look at the living conditions challenges from a geographical perspective and to avoid busying newly arrived refugees in an area where there is a high level of living conditions or a high proportion of immigrants. It is the kind of challenges that the government is going to address, related to both living conditions and social mobility. For this reason, the 2022 budget is already proposing to increase the permits for area bets in large cities by 20 million. in addition to that underlying the budget of the Right-Registration. Getting more people to work is one of the most important things we can do to reduce poverty and social differences, including among young people or among families with children. In Norway, people who are at work, who are usually able to support themselves and their families, so that parents are at work, are therefore quite decisive to lift young people and young people out of economically difficult conditions. The workline will be central to the government’s efforts to combat poverty. We are now a working party. Work is the key to integration, and the path to work is through education and qualification. Today we see that too many immigrants are outside the labour market, or are falling out of work in a few years. The goal must be that the period without work should be kept as short as possible and that the forces should be deployed to give people the skills that qualify for a more stable participation in the labour market. I'm going to sit down and go through the skills available to immigrants, to ensure that they contribute as much as possible to getting more people to work. We will strengthen the work on competence and thus the line of work in Norwegian integration policy. The Labour Party has always been concerned that passiveness in reception for those who have just arrived prevents integration and waste of resources. Before setting up, refugees shall carry out competency monitoring to help to build a municipality with a relevant supply of education and work. Municipalities must also draw up plans to include measures to qualify immigrants to meet regional labour market needs. I have to admit that in the light of this, and not least in the light of the interpellation for which the representative has taken the initiative, I have followed with amazement the cut made by the Right-Government in 2017, in Norwegian training at reception, from 250 to 175 hours. One would think that learning Norwegian at an early stage would be considered useful when one is busy getting more people to work. It is also the qualification of the labour market. We have also seen that the introduction programme has not sufficiently covered the gap between the competences that newcomers can bring with them and what is actually required in Norwegian employment. The aim must be to give more people a formal competence within the framework of the introduction programme, including: the ability of more than one person to undertake full-time continuing training. It is important for us to make it possible for several participants to receive a professional letter through appropriate organisation in the form of language and learning support. There is also a commitment that will help more people get to work faster and get a lasting connection with the world of work. The government will make a powerful leap for professionalism, and I know that the Minister of Knowledge is doing well. Over time, we have also seen that many do not achieve the Norwegian skills required to get into work and in further education, so having good basic Norwegian skills is important both for participation in the labour market and for society otherwise. We are therefore going to strengthen the supply of immigrants with weak Norwegian skills. The combination of training in Norwegian and receiving community knowledge shall help to provide opportunities for combining work and language practices. I am also pleased to say that I am helping to increase the number of action sites next year by 1 000 and to strengthen the operating budget of Nav by 175 million. It means something to Nav's ability to follow people closely when they're out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e973	Thanks for the answer. Many of the measures taken by the State Councils, such as: Previous qualification, previous matching related to your skills, and residence, are measures that the Right fully agrees with and that it has been important for the Right to address the previous government together with the Left and Christian People's Party in the context of the integration reform that has been implemented, including: ensuring that you have the right to achieve a certain level of Norwegian skills, rather than just having an hour to deal with, as it was in the past. I believe the most important thing is that you learn Norwegian in a good way, not that you have to do it within a certain time frame. There's a lot from the government council that's about clean work, but I think it's less about what's going on on pure competence. Also, when I read the entire Hurdal platform, I don't think there are generally any bigger and new ideas about how to improve skills and integration. The Council of State refers primarily to the need for knowledge mapping, but it does not have any particular thoughts on how to change policy. The closest thing to the Hurdal platform is that the new government will strengthen what they refer to as the competence line in Norwegian integration policy, without it being possible to say anything more about what the ‘line of competence’ actually means – which I would like to invite the Council of State to respond to in its forthcoming speeches. An example of how important it is to see integration and education policies in the context is that there are too many children in Norway who, when they start school, cannot Norwegian well enough. Therefore, I think it is reasonable and important for children to also have a systematic assessment of children starting in kindergarten and that systematic procedures should be in place to assess their Norwegian skills before they begin school. It is important to know if you, for example: have to put in place additional measures so that children can actually understand what is being said at school. The Hurdal Platform states that the government will not introduce a general survey of children’s language skills until they begin school, but a general assessment, general procedures and a systematic approach to that issue are not mentioned. It may then be tempting to ask whether the Council of State considers that general procedures or a systematic follow-up to, for example, should be introduced. children in kindergarten to ensure that integration is improved, which is incredibly important in order to cope well with the rest of the school cycle and in the long term also to complete secondary education, which is the most important measure to ensure that people have a lasting relationship with the world of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e984	I think it is commendable that the representative Holm Lønneth is busy developing the dimension of competence and qualification in integration policy, which of course is also important for today's government. But if there was education and competence the representative wanted to discuss, perhaps the representative should have directed the interference to another Council of State. It is still the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Education for education policy. One might wonder if the aim of still targeting the interpellation with my ministry and against this responsibility is to polish more than to integrate. The starting point for this government is that people with a migrant background should have the same opportunities to participate in the world of work and society as everyone else, including the majority population. Of course, there must also be a qualification at the bottom of those who need it, or health care for those who need it, or learning support, or whatever it may be, to help them get a safe and firm foothold in the workplace. We have also seen that people with a migrant background are unfortunately over-represented in those parts of the world of work where there is a greater risk of social dumping, labour crime, demanding pay working conditions and unsafe contracts. There is also a reason why this should be seen in the context of labour policy in general, for which this government makes better use by linking integration policies to employment and labour policies. The representative Holm Lønseth also notes that there are some young people who cannot Norwegian well enough when they start school, perhaps also because they have not gone to kindergarten. Then it will be important to help more people with immigrant backgrounds actually go to kindergarten. We see that over time cash support has helped some women with a migrant background to feel that it is an economic threshold to get into work, and that it has a meaning for young people to participate in kindergarten or not. It has been important for this government to make it easier to help more women with a migrant background get into work. We have proposed to strengthen the job balance by 10 million. kr in the 2022 budget. We also suggest cutting the maximum child care price in the 2022 budget, so that it is cheaper for everyone, and we suggest making changes in cash support during this downtime, which will also stimulate more women to come to work. In this way, a double effect is obtained, with women becoming more self-sustaining and young learning Norwegian at an earlier stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e993	Stortingsretten Holm Lønseth wants answers on how the government has intended to follow up the integration work in the new department with new government council. The representative says in the interview that it is important that immigrants get good Norwegian skills and the competence of the business community. Several people have to be given the opportunity to take adult education, and early school and kindergarten education is crucial, she goes on to say. In Hurdal, we agreed on concrete policies to qualify more people for work and to ensure that more people can support themselves and their families. In Hurdal we agreed to lower the maximum price in the kindergarten. What this is all about are priorities, and the very phase is the fight for effectiveness in the concrete appropriations for the state budget. For the first time since 2013, child care prices have been lowered in addition to the state budget. It means something to people. Therefore, we strengthen the municipal framework so that municipalities can increase staffing, increase the competence and quality of kindergartens. It means something to people. What does kindergarten mean for objectives of completion of secondary school and qualification of employment? Politics works. The Stoltenberg government started its trial of free core time in kindergartens in selected Oslo urban areas from 2006. Four-year-olds and five-year-olds in selected urban areas with a high proportion of minorities were offered 20 hours free of charge during the week. Now researchers have followed these children over time and found more positive results when the students have taken the national test at the 8th stage. These students have achieved better mastery in the national reading test. Children in low-income families, where mother does not work, seem to have the greatest benefit from free core time, taking into account both reading and calculation skills at the eighth stage. And boys have the greatest benefits in terms of reading. Politics works. Just look at what we've done with the City Council in Oslo. In recent years, students in Oslo have improved their qualifications both in secondary and secondary education. Several young people apply for vocational training, and several students complete and pass the school cycle. These are results in Oslo School that speak for themselves. In the work on a completely new introduction law, we promoted a number of good proposals. We proposed to conduct intensive courses in democracy, gender equality and Norwegian employment for quota refugees before they arrived in Norway and to carry out a thorough assessment of competence that could provide a basis for work and a qualification cycle in the new law. Furthermore, we wanted a good competence assessment for asylum seekers at the earliest opportunity, which could provide a basis for finding the right settlement municipality. That way, we avoid wasting time and increasing the chance of successful integration. Furthermore, we proposed that professional targets should be set for the individual in the integration plan. We would strengthen the fast track system in the introduction programme and bet on Norwegian training in the workplace, through programmes for industry, for labour market Norwegian, and not least we would use vocational training models such as the Helsfyrer model and the Gloppen model, where students get a combination of school and work practices, so that language training becomes more effective. The right voted for all these proposals in the Stortinget last autumn. On Monday I visited the municipality of Lørenskog and was greeted by the participants in Jobsjansen. The municipality has good results, much thanks to cooperation with the private business community. We want to strengthen Job's weight by 10 million. NOK in addition to our State budget. For the Workers' Party, the individual's ability to get a job and to support himself and his family is the most important objective of integration policy. If we're going to get more people to work, early work is crucial. That's why I'm so proud of the results in Oslo School – with Raymond at the helm.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e1018	The level of wealth in Norway is higher than in many other countries because we get more for each hour of work. We produce efficiently and get paid well for goods and services when we trade with the rest of the world. The prosperity growth benefits all the people, and together we have managed to create one of the world's best welfare societies. We live longer, and there are growing older. That's good. But it also means that public expenditure will increase faster than revenue, and we have to close that gap. The Perspective Communication shows that the funding gap can be covered by increased workload. In fact, labour needs to be increased by around 20 million extra hours per year between 2025 and 2060 in order to achieve this. This means that more people have to work if future generations are to have the same opportunities as us. We simply have to include more in the working life. It is gratifying that the employment rate was on the way up before the pandemic, and we see that unemployment figures are now going down. But the pandemic must not make us nearsighted. Even before the Korona became too many outside the labour market. It could be about people who lack education, do not have enough Norwegian skills, or need a chance to try their way into work. An important part of the job of closing the funding gap is to think in the long term and include anyone who can, in the workplace. To do this, the Right will continue to work along three main lines: education, integration and inclusion, and these are closely linked. Too many people can get out of work because they lack basic skills in reading, writing and ICT. Many can and will work, but they may need a chance to qualify for a job. Our main instrument to ensure this is the Competence plus scheme. Competence plus gives you the opportunity to close knowledge gaps and learn Norwegian and basic skills. It shortens the path to professional letters and the way into working life. Therefore, the government of Solberg has doubled the appropriations allocated to this scheme. There are also those at risk of falling out of work because education is in the process of being out of date. The aim must be that no one should go out on the date of working life. In a world where technological development is accelerating, we need to give people the chance to update their skills. This is why the government of Solberg started to implement a reform of competence, the aim of which is that the door of knowledge should be open throughout the life cycle. In essence, it is about closing the gap between what employees have in terms of skills and the skills they need in the workplace. If we are to succeed in getting more people to work, we also need to succeed better with integration. The time between coming to Norway and being qualified for work must be reduced. We also need to recognise that different people need different tools to get to work. This is the recognition that has underpinned the integration strategy of the government of Solberg. We have differentiated the offer to new arrivals of immigrants. Competences are now being identified at the time of receipt and training is not only required, but also the content of the training. The last 20 years have been a golden period for the Norwegian economy, and many have improved. The goal must be that the best time should be in front of us, not behind us. If we're going to succeed, we're going to have to give more people a chance in the world of work. I think it's possible if we do it together, but then we have to continue to focus on knowledge and education and use the tools available in this area. And we must continue to do what we can to ensure that more employers are involved, for education, integration and inclusion are crucial for the future's working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e1035	In the Left, we share the inter-pellant's concern that the move of integration out of the Ministry of Knowledge can reduce the important tools available to the Ministry of Knowledge, even though I understand in many ways the intention of the movement itself. Because we know that parents' association with the labour market affects children's performance in school and education. Work is also the main source of income for most households, and access to work is essential for the fight against permanent poverty. We also know that qualification for work and education is precisely what makes it possible to acquire the skills that employers demand, and therefore is essential to get into permanent work. No one disagrees that it is a general objective that as many people as possible get into work, but the ticket into the labour market is just competence. The main means we have of verifying education and training are to confirm and adapt the competences of Norway to those of the Ministry of Knowledge. That's why, in the former government, we also saw the good results that the location of the integration portfolio had there. We understand that the Council of State wants to get more into work, and as I said, it's an ambition we share, but it doesn't only help to move the portfolio to a department that starts with the word "work". So I am delighted to see many of the initiatives that the Council of State is going to take. The Council of State said in an interview this day that Norwegian integration policy has failed. I can, of course, make a partial recognition of it, because that was also the basis for the previous government to launch a reform of integration policy. Here it is worth reminding the representative Holm Lønseth that it was the representative Melby who was the Minister for Integration both during the roll-out of the integration reform and under, among other things. the adoption of the new law on integration. And it was precisely through the work of the integration reform that we made a lot of the answers that hopefully in the future will give a better integration effect than what we have seen now. What remains remains as a question for me then is what the Council of State now seems to be the most unsuccessful in the integration policy that actually needs to be changed. Many of the questions that the Council itself has raised are things that have already been addressed by the former government. After all, the connection to the world of work is not a sort of secret. That is precisely why, in the previous government, we also fought for Norwegian and Norwegian education to be part of the strategy against labour-life crime, because we know that Norwegian is such an important part of ensuring that those who work in Norway have an understanding of their employment rights. Language creates understanding. That is also why the previous government set up its own public body to look at integration policies in the field of labour immigration, which I believe is a black hole in Norwegian integration policy. So I'm looking forward to many of the discussions we're going to have about which hole we're going to close, but I'm still worried about the basic question that the interpellant is raising, because that's what's crucial. So I would like to conclude by making a few comments to some of the claims that have been raised. Governments criticise, among other things: the reduction in Norwegian training hours to 175 hours. At the same time, I expect her to know very well that the reason was that there were few asylum seekers who stayed long enough to complete all the hours that were actually given. At the same time, the other steps taken to strengthen Norwegian training are completely disregarded in the integration process. So I can say that I am looking forward to the review the Council of State is going to make of the qualification courses. The left must be constructive to what it is an exciting area. Then I'm not going to reveal to any of the central partists – who are not here in the hall – that the government was referred to by the government as a working party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e1052	For the Workers' Party, getting more into work is one of the most important tasks we have. This applies to young people who have fallen out of society or who have dropped out of school, to people who have become sick and have to gradually get back into work, and not least into integration policy. We know that getting out of work and getting colleagues to talk with in lunch and people to meet during a working day is essential to getting good Norwegian training and good inclusion in Norway. If we are to get a good inclusion work for immigrants in Norway, a good place to start is to ask them about it. In the election campaign, I was so lucky that I was able to discuss just working life with a number of mothers and fathers with immigrant backgrounds in my own community, on Tøen in the Old Oslo district. And what were they asking for from me and from the Workers' Party? Well, first of all, they asked for better arrangements to qualify. Many had already received education, but the job in other professions with lower skills requirements today. Many wanted to build on the skills they already have, and better opportunities to learn Norwegian. The Hurdal platform between the government parties, the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, decides that we should start qualifying for work already in the reception and strengthening of the competence line in integration policy. Secondly, they wanted to meet a serious work life that gave as much attention to them as to other workers. People with immigrant backgrounds often come from countries without the same organized working life as in Norway, but social dumping is a violation of rights that is no more good just because your country background is different from Norwegian. Knowledge of professional organisation and the ability to organise were important to them. The Workers' Party-Center Party government decides that we should strengthen organised labour, not weaken it. Thirdly, they asked for a work life free of discrimination, where they should not be afraid that the name they have, or a hijab, would prevent them from being called in to a job interview, lead to a lowering of comments at work, or make them different from others. A society free from discrimination and racism is a task that we will never finish, but which this government is also taking very seriously. I am sure that the Council of State Hadia Tajik has all the prerequisites to take the expectations and challenges that I was met with in my community and my neighborhood, in the greatest seriousness. I come from a city that is one of Oslo's most diverse, but where every third child grows up in poverty. In the last eight years of right-wing rule, the number of children growing up in poverty has ranged from slightly over 80,000 to 115,000. If there's one thing that's certain, it's that policies that've been going on for the last eight years have given us greater differences and more children growing up in poverty. If that's true, the representative Holm Lønseth from the Right points out, that one of the explanations behind this is a low link to the working life, then at least there is no right policy we can continue with. There is no cut in the wealth tax my neighbors are asking for. More needs-tested schemes do not give them more freedom, but create poverty traps. They do not want a working life with fewer rights and lower levels of organisation. No, they ask us to do as in Oslo: provide good welfare arrangements like free ACS and a stable housing market that gives them the security to take chances. The key to good integration goes through a working life where we make demands on each other and where we make demands on each other. I can't imagine that there's anyone better to deal with those challenges than a councillor named Hadia Tajik, in the very Ministry of Labour and Inclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e1081	Without me sitting on the perfectly correct definition, because I don't think any of us have, I would say that integration is primarily about becoming a part of the society that you live in, being a citizen of society. We have to ask ourselves why it is that children who have grown up in an open, rich and democratic country like Norway are in danger of falling outside. There are many entrances to this debate, but today it's primarily about school and work, and I'm going to focus most on it, and it's also because it's the two most important pillars of the whole integration debate. To succeed with these is the key to integration. Failure with these is the recipe of the outside cabinet. We know that there are children in Norwegian schools and they are often frustrated because they are insecure, they don't understand what the teacher says, can't speak and can't thus acquire the necessary knowledge. You can ask yourself what's most important to this boy or girl in these important years at primary school. For us in the Right, of course, it's a school with a focus on the teacher and knowledge building. Unfortunately, it is often the case that children who drop out of school are found again in statistics on young unemployed or young people who are out of school. When we talk about child poverty, which many people have talked about here, it's important to remember that it's not the children who are poor, it's the family who are poor, and if we're going to succeed in combating inequality, it's important that these families are able to have their own income. It is about going from no income to having one income and preferably going from having one income to having two incomes. We know that very many of these people have short residence in Norway. I don't want to start an immigration debate when I say that we have to take on the fact that very many of the challenges of alienation are represented by families who have migrated to Norway, and have short residence. Then we also have to look at what we can do for these families. I think it's important to have the workline far ahead, but we also have to dry out trying new grips. I do not think it is right that the working party and the others on the red-green side are so categorical about temporary employment. For very many people with a migrant background, it is very often a foot in the labour market, to get acquainted with the labour market and make the labour market familiar with them, and thereby to start a career. We also know that if we are to succeed in the work line, getting more integrated into the working life of those with a minority background, who are often overrepresented in that statistics, it is also about making the way from being a refugee to a taxable and integrated citizen as short as possible. It was therefore right in government, together with the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Progress Party, that we were made over the whole process of integration, so that we started the integration already in the reception system, so that we made sure that the long queues of people who needed to be settled were brought down, and people were settled more quickly in good cooperation with the municipality, and that we transformed the entire introduction program – with quick tracks, ensuring that there is a good cooperation with the business community, that we have practical places, and that we can provide more differentiated training. That's why I have to say that it's getting a little bit light, maybe more than a little bit light, it's getting very easy – I have to end up there, President – from the Labour Party of their representative from Oslo, who's standing here and referring to his own proposals that were voted down by the Right, without mentioning that these are proposals that were either already implemented or under work in their substance. I think that would have served the debate. The proposals are good, otherwise they would not have been implemented or under work. Let me mention e.g. Social skills in reception, Norwegian education, re-introduction programme, rapid tracks while in the programme, more differentiated courses, cooperation with industry, practical places, cooperation with volunteering, good cooperation with primary school, where primary school once again has a good dialogue with parents, so that these races can be linked – and I could continue. I hope that, in the debate, we can rather look at how we can gather forces, rather than refer to faulty voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e1099	The Solberg government chose to shift responsibility for integration to the Ministry of Knowledge precisely because education is essential for success in integration. I just want to stress that this is also the background for me asking the question today, which is also about how to ensure that the tools that are actually in the Department of Knowledge area do not disappear or become a priority in the further work. It can be seen that the most important measures to achieve long-term integration, namely competence and education, are no longer part of the constitutional responsibility of the Council of State responsible for integration. In fact, when you take up that debate and try to see the breadth of it, in the Right and I think are the most important steps to succeed, you get a reference that the question or debate might have been addressed to a Council of State with a different constitutional responsibility. That is really what justifies the whole concern of the Right about whether the knowledge perspective of integration policy will be respected, just as the Right, Left and Christian People's Party has done in government. That's also why both the Left and I in the Chamber here are showing the concern that we're doing. At the same time, I would like to thank you for the debate. It's important for me to stress, since it's a little lower than several of the representatives of the Workers' Party, that this question is not asked because of who it is the Council of State, that you don't trust that the Council of State Hadia Tajik will have a genuine commitment and work for good integration. It is simply a matter of the fact that the tools for achieving long-term integration are no longer at the hands of the Council of State that has the constitutional responsibility for integration. However, I am pleased to see that much of what has been the integration policy of the Solberg government is repeated as also leading for the next few years. This means that we can gradually begin to see the results of the major integration reforms carried out by the Solberg Government, for the benefit of those who have come to Norway, and also for the benefit of the Norwegian community. I believe that the Right should, of course, also be constructive when new technical recommendations are made as to whether there are other measures to be introduced into the integration policy in the future. We will always be concerned about finding new measures that will enable even more people to take an active part in society, and I look forward to discussing this with the Council of State in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e1110	The representative Holm Lønseth says that the most important thing for happiness with integration is competence, and the representative Grunde Almeland says that the ticket into integration and work is competence. They are quite right that competence is important, but in no way is it the only thing that is important to be able to have a real chance in Norway. The barriers that people encounter can be quite different. The fact that the previous government left the integration portfolio to the knowledge area does not mean that they think that the other barriers are not important. There can be no reason to believe that the previous government, for example While it is clear that it is well documented that people with a migrant background are able to experience discrimination in the workplace, discrimination in the workplace is not important in the labour market. For example, researchers Arnfinn H. Midgøen and Jon Rogstad have examined this form of discrimination by sending fictitious job applications to real calls, and they saw in the 2012 survey that the probability of being invited to interview was reduced by around 25 pst. for those with a migrant background. Today's government wants to create an action plan to fight racism. I assume that the previous government was not in favour of racism or discrimination in the workplace, even though the portfolio was elsewhere. The representative, Margret Hagerup, had a number of useful reflections, but I think that, in addition to the barrier that discrimination can create, health can also be a barrier. One knows that people who have recently come to Norway can carry a luggage that may require close follow-up related to mental health. We know that a third barrier that people with immigrant backgrounds can meet is culture, that is, their own cultural luggage, when you see that, for example. Norwegian-born girls with a migrant background participated slightly less in work or education after age 25. It is also important to talk about these barriers in order to help more people get a foothold in their working life and make it possible to integrate them. I also believe that the previous government is a good initiative, which is great to come forward, as the representative Grunde Almeland also does. But speaking is very clear, and I would like to know – in a future debate – what they themselves think about half of the social welfare recipients are born abroad – after eight years of right-wing rule, with support from, among others. Left. Finally, the representative, Mr. Grunde Almeland, said that he should not reveal to the Central Party that the signatures referred to himself as the Labour Party – for that was what I did. I represent the Workers' Party, and it's absolutely right that we cooperate well with the Center Party, but we're not self-destructive. We're integrated, but we're not assimilated.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e1125	The interpellant debate is closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e1141	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e1158	No one has asked for the floor. The size pauses until voting time. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e1182	The size is then ready to go to voting on the matter no. 2–6 on today’s map. Case No. 1 was dealt with at the beginning of the meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e1194	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on important EU and EEA matters in 2021, which was held at the Stortinget meeting on 23 November 2021, be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-25.ana.ud490e1248	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. – Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? So it doesn't seem, and the meeting is cancelled.
