ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e108	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e113	On behalf of the representatives of Sylvi Listhaug, Morten Wold, Silje Hämdal, Himanshu Gulati, Marius Arion Nilsen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to strengthen Norwegian intensive capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e118	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 to 5 is treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e188	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the allocated speaking time in the debate will be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes, and the President will organise the debate as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Center Party 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Red, Left, Environmental Party Green and Christian People's Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions by members of the Government. In addition, those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e199	The U.S.-China Great Power Rivalisation has become the clearest turning point in international policy. Russia is increasingly self-reliant and is now exerting considerable military pressure on Ukraine. Democracy and the rule of law are under strong pressure in many parts of the world, and disinformation and conspiracy theories characterize the social debate in several places. There is a need to build trust and resilient societies. In this troubled waters, Norway must continue to work to strengthen NATO and continue the work we started in 2014 to deepen security policy cooperation with close European allies and Nordic countries. The United States is our most important ally, and the government is about to enter into an intensive and important work on propositions for the SDCA, the additional defence cooperation agreement with the United States. The Agreement is important in order to safeguard Norwegian interests. We must also continue to strengthen cooperation with the EU, because it also serves Norwegian interests. The northern regions are Norway's main strategic responsibility. The Nordgebietsmeldung, presented a year ago, clearly shows this. Over eight years, the Solberg government has put forward good and clear measures to address the three dimensions of the Arctic policy: the international picture in the Arctic, the relationship with our neighbouring countries in the Barents region and in the North Calotte region and the development of North Norway. Norwegian interests in the Arctic were best asserted by a strong, viable and competent North Norway. The Communication shows why the economy and social development of the region and its population living in the north are a national issue and have strategic significance for the whole country. Russia has always been a design factor in Norwegian foreign, security and defence policy. We work together where we have common interests, and the previous government also sought to establish new areas of cooperation, such as the work on plastic exploration in the Barents Sea. We have a clear line as a NATO member, and stand up to violations of international law and human rights. For me, therefore, it is surprising that the big government in the budget deal with SV kutter 15 million. kr in north-eastern actions, which will directly affect people-to-people cooperation and project cooperation with Russia. It may be particularly surprising since the Minister of Foreign Affairs, when she was an opposition politician, often criticized the previous government for not giving more money to Northern Territory measures and cooperation with Russia. Several countries in the Western Balkans are in a very fragile situation, where polarisation, lack of political inclusion and economic decline can pose a significant risk of extremism and external forces can rekindle conflicts. The Solberg government almost doubled the assistance to the West Balkans, and it is rather alarming in my opinion that the Big Government cuts the grant by 128 million. kr, at a time when work on closer European and Euro-Atlantic integration may be more important than ever. I'm worried that in the climate of foreign and security policy we see, Norway creates uncertainty among our friends and allies. The decision to participate as an observer at the Conference of the States Parties to the Prohibited Treaty has created irritation and wonder among allies. The point of setting up joint meeting places to discuss security policy challenges in the north, which the government cannot explain what is, who is to be included, or what is to be on the agenda, has created the same response. There shall never and can never be doubt as to Norway's valuable affiliation as a strong defender of international law and human rights along with liberal democracies in the West. The Government has full support of the Right to continue its efforts to impose requirements on the use of EEA funds, not forgetting the demanding discussions relating to human rights and the rule of law, including: in Poland and Hungary. In June of this year, the Solberg Government presented a new freedom of expression strategy. It is very important, because the right to freedom of expression and free access to information are fundamental prerequisites for democracy. These rights are being challenged more and more and more, and those who express themselves experience increasing threats, being emboldened and being subjected to violence, and at worst killed. Very often, there are no consequences for the perpetrators. I see this year's Nobel Prize winners clearly and strongly explaining how much it costs to stand up for freedom of speech. Since the Solberg government in its period prioritised a sharp increase in the appropriations for international human rights work, I am surprised that the government in the budgetary agreement with SV has decided to cut the human rights allocation by 30 million. kr. Freedom of expression, freedom of belief and life and the right to love whomever you want must be protected. The defenders of human rights must do the same. The United Nations estimates that the number of people in need of humanitarian aid will increase dramatically in 2022 as well. From 2020 to 2021, the number increased by 40 pst, to 235 million people. The UN now estimates that the need will increase by a further 17 p.m., to 247 million, in 2022. The rapidly increasing humanitarian needs in the world in recent years are also the reason why humanitarian aid was a clear priority for the Solberg government. The humanitarian budget has doubled in our time. In the light of what we know about the needs, one of the most eye-catching grips from the Big Government in the supplementary proposition is that they cut 270 million. The appropriations for humanitarian aid under heading 70 amount to almost €1.2 billion. kr to a so-called solidarity pot. In the worst case, it can help to fragment humanitarian aid and undermine the strategic partnerships with six Norwegian humanitarian organisations, by shifting large funds from well-functioning channels to a solidarity hot government neither has it been able to explain what is, how it should work differently from today’s organisation, how it can help more people in need or how it should be organised. On Friday both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and I were present at the City Hall and heard no less than three Nobel lectures, both from the two winners of the year, Maria Ressa and Dimitrij Muratov, and from the winner of last year, the World Food Programme by Director General David Beasley. Beasley’s message was crystal clear: World Food Programme figures, WFP, show that 42 million people in 43 countries are on the verge of starvation. Hunger continues to increase globally at an accelerating rate. The latest estimates from the WFP show that almost 283 million people in 80 countries experience acute hunger. This is a trend that, of course, has been dramatically enhanced during the pandemic. Just in this situation, the Big Government and SV choose to cut the core support of the World Food Programme – not just one, but twice, only 200 million. NOK in the additional bill from the government and then SEK 120 million. kr in the budgetary agreement with SV. The second major worrying consequence of the pandemic is that hundreds of millions of children have been out of school. Many millions of children will never come back to school again. It's going to hit hard. Not only do they lose important learning, they also lose the protection provided by school and education. This means that several small girls are at risk of being married away, and more children are exposed to forced labour. Just in this situation, the big government chooses to cut 662 million. in education for children in poor countries in 2022, and halves the commitment Norway has made to the Global Partnership for Education for the next five years. International responses have been particularly strong because organisations and recipients expect Norway to be a country under their obligations. It is harmful to Norway’s reputation internationally, as a reliable partner. I have heard the Minister for Development defend the cut that it is not a legal obligation, but it is an unusually thin defense for a dramatic cut. We have committed ourselves politically, and the CFP has never experienced before that a country has abandoned a promise that has been made. True, Norway has never done anything like that either. In response to the Storting, the Minister of Development says that our commitment to climate, food and energy will have ring-fences in education, and that the effect of education will be weakened if school buildings are destroyed by climate-related storms. There's an obvious link, but there's no contradiction between working with the long-term and what's going on with education today, and it doesn't justify a dramatic cut in education for children in poor countries. Without the Store government's cut, the Global Partnership for Education estimated that more than 3.7 million children could be educated, and 17,000 girls could avoid getting married. So in terms of the two major consequences of the pandemic, that people starve and that children lose school, the Big Government chooses to cut the appropriations. It is not a matter of priority either. If the government really would prioritize hunger and education, it could just not cut the aid framework by 750 million. kr. I have previously mentioned to the Minister of Development that the government has abruptly scolded the plans for Norway to host the UNICEF global health innovation hub, and we are promoting this today. Norway has been on the United Nations Security Council for a year in less than two weeks. It has been a demanding and important year, and Norway has been central to very important decisions. In less than two weeks, we will take over the presidency of the Council. I will come back to Norway's role and work in the Security Council in connection with the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement on this for the first week in January, which I look forward to. I'll bring this up with the suggestions we're part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e247	The representative ine Eriksen Soreide has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e252	Today it is 62 days since Norway received a new government because the voters voted for a new course with more community and less differences for a more fair Norway. However, in foreign and security policy, it is not right to say that there has been a whole new course for Norway, for Norway should be able to recognise through different government shifts. It's a force for Norway. The most important thing is clear: support for the UN and international law, being a good ally in NATO, and that the EEA Agreement is our link to Europe. But there has been and will be changes in foreign policy, because it also plays a role here in who it is. I want to focus my speech on where we have got a new direction in the field of foreign affairs and development, and then other of my colleagues will present what is in the field of defence policy. We've got a government that wants more, that dares more, and that has greater ambitions to change the world. We want a safer, fairer and greener world. Now, two years inside the pandemic, we know that there is no conflict between working for stronger nation states and for more international cooperation. On the contrary, we have to do more of both. Martin Tranmæl said in a speech that we should stand with legs well planted on Norwegian soil, with eyes facing the world. So can the new government. We're going to have to look out at the world. It is about solidarity and our self-interest, because what is happening out there concerns us here at home. Now we're going to have an uncertain time. It's been under three months since we celebrated the reopening of Norway. Today we live with the most stringent measures for a long time. The most important thing we've learned is that we haven't finished this before the whole world is over. Nobody's safe until everyone's safe. Now we're struggling with a mutant that first appeared in South Africa. No one knows, when and where it can occur again. What we know is that the way out is to vaccinate the whole world. The most important thing we have to do is get more vaccines produced and get the vaccines out to those who need it. But we also have to do more than that. The new government will, among other things, to work for exceptions to the patent legislation for corona vaccines. Nothing can be unbridled in the face of a pandemic as it feels that will never let go of the roof. The new government will give more priority to development policy. It's not about assessing what's the most important of good purposes. It is about where Norway can make the greatest possible difference, where Norway is most needed. We have set six main priorities for the new government. The first one is climate. During the last government, the work on climate and renewable energy was largely cut. The agreements that had been concluded had to be terminated. Despite the fact that the world had promised more money for climate finance, after eight years with Erna Solberg we were lower than when she took over. We say climate finance will be our first priority. The other one is inequality. We give priority to inequality because the differences within countries are as large as between countries. Ensuring good labour rights and redistributive tax systems is the way to well-being. We know that here at home. The same is true in the world. The third is that we want to bet on women's right to determine their own bodies. Unfortunately, there are many setbacks in the world. Under the previous government, abortion legislation was tightened at home in Norway, and it was cut internationally — at a time when many other countries also cut. This is an area where Norway has to take the lead again, because if we do not, there is not a queue of other countries ready to do the same. Our fourth main priority is food security and the fight against hunger. We know that for the first time in a long time the number of people are starving. Producing more climate smart is crucial for saturation of the world's population. Our fifth main priority is to fight infectious diseases. When Jens Stoltenberg became prime minister in 2000, vaccines were given to the world's children his great priority. The initiative came from the current head of the AUF, who cooperated with the head of staff of the World Health Organisation. Today, 21 years later, the Chief of Staff has become Prime Minister and the head of the AUF. They will have the credit for what has perhaps been the most successful aid Norway has ever given. Millions of children have grown up because of a small stick in their arms. Now the two are ready to take the lead on new initiatives in the field of health. The last main priority is humanitarian emergency aid. Unfortunately, many places in the world are going to need it, not least with more infectious diseases and the danger of dramatic climate disasters. This again we know can give more war and conflict. When Jonas Gahr Støre was Minister for Foreign Affairs, Norway went in front of the work on disarmament. It wasn't always popular among our allies, but we set goals, we sank support, and we didn't accept that those who wanted at least were the ones who would determine the pace for everyone. Through good diplomatic work and cooperation with civil society, the red-green government put the ban on class weapons in place. The Red-Green Government also started work on the humanitarian initiative against nuclear weapons. After a standstill in the disarmament field over eight years with the Right Rule, Norway is now back. We will step up the work of disarmament, both diplomatically and through cooperation with civil society. Norway shall also be an observer at the State Party Meeting on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. Norway should be present for a wide range of important meeting tables. With the exception of the Progress Party and the Right, we note that there is great support for that decision in this Chamber, and after Norway published its decision, the new German government has done the same. The northern regions are Norway's window towards the world. That's the government's main strategic focus. It was no coincidence that our new foreign minister's first trip was to Tromsø, to the Barents Council and the meeting with the Russian Foreign Minister. We want a new giver in the Northern Region policy. This will mean a strong cross-sectoral effort – education, energy, climate, travel and business. The northern regions are also Norway's main peace project. We must maintain peace in our part of the world. We need to have predictable and good cooperation with Russia. Our most important tool is people-to-people cooperation in the north, and we will also work in all areas where we have a common interest: sea, coast, climate and cooperation on residential coniferous forests. Now that it's like the most coronary, in December, many of us find comfort in running on Christmas music. There we sing about a child who was born in Bethlehem. A hope for the new year must be that the child born today in Bethlehem can grow up in peace, without occupation, with good neighbours and with hope for the future. Because there is something missing from the conflict between Israel and Palestine, there is hope. Israel's policy, with new settlements, the crushing of civil society and increased violence against Palestinians, can destroy the dream of a two-state solution. On the Palestinian side, too, we find major problems, not least in the lack of elections. But the crux of the conflict is the same: the occupation of Palestine. We demand that the occupation end, that the wall be demolished, and that the Palestinians have to have their own state. The only country outside the Nordics and the United States that received positive publicity in the government statement to Erna Solberg was Israel. Harald Stanghelle was right when he wrote that this cannot be interpreted in any other way than ‘a solid shoulder clapping to Benjamin Netanyahu uncompromising Israel’. In the annual budgetary rounds here on the Storting, it was implemented cut to Palestine and to the UN's work on Palestinian refugees, both when the Christian People's Party sat outside and negotiated it, and when the Progress Party did the same. In today's budget, the opposite happens. The new government is increasing its support for the UN's work on Palestinian refugees by nearly 100 million. kr. Finally, through our three ministers, let me thank all those who stand for Norway abroad, for a year where it has been more difficult than in a very long time – all those who work humanitarianally, both voluntarily and in the organisations, those who are in charge of our interests around the embassies, and perhaps most of all those who serve militarily. Let my last words now be to thank those who have served for us in Afghanistan, all the veterans who have been there for 20 years. There have been incredible images this fall, and my thoughts go in gratitude to our veterans for the efforts they have made over the last 20 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e296	The Central Party and the Government assume that Norway’s foreign policy is to safeguard Norwegian interests, and will pursue a foreign and development policy where the main lines are fixed, with a strong commitment to the UN and international law, membership of NATO, the EEA Agreement, which will be reviewed, and Norway is not a member of the EU. The entry into the 2020s is marked by a world of more unrest, unforeseeability and tensions between the major powers. Global pandemics, climate change and the fight for energy, especially green energy, create challenges in both domestic and foreign policy. Disarmament agreements are being undermined and abandoned, and democratic values are being challenged just outside our own living room door. It is vital for Norway to contribute to peaceful and regulated development in our neighbourhoods. The Northern Region policy is therefore Norway's main peace project, and the cooperation with our NATO allies is the foundation of our military security. In today’s security policy situation, NATO cooperation is more important than in many, many years, and it is very important to support actions ensuring the political and military relevance of the defence alliance. The main task of the defence sector is to maintain and develop the operational capacity of the defence sector to defend the country within the framework of NATO's collective defence. At the same time, strong Nordic foreign and security policy cooperation is important. The Nordic regions constitute our strategic main area of interest, and – not least – Russia will be a design factor in Norwegian foreign, security and defence policy. So the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for Norway's cooperation with Russia. Regardless of alliance relations, we have a strong Nordic interest community. Regardless of their relationship with the EU, we share the ambition that the Nordic region should be a priority region for industrial development, climate and the environment. We're not going to be a European green battery – we're going to be an important part of the engine. Norway has a unique competence that has evolved in cycles, with natural resources in the broadest sense being very important for the development of Norway’s prosperity. As stated in the Hurdal platform, the government aims to increase Norwegian exports, excluding oil and gas, by at least 50 pst. by 2030. The centre party and government will therefore strengthen efforts to promote Norwegian business abroad. This is one of several instruments for strengthening Norwegian exports, with particular emphasis on renewable energy and green technologies both within and outside Europe. The aim is to contribute to Norwegian value creation by providing more Norwegian enterprises and industries with access to markets in Europe and globally, enabling Norwegian business to position themselves as best possible to exploit the opportunities that arise. Cross-border security challenges, such as organised crime, illicit trafficking, violent extremism and the proliferation of nuclear weapons, also affect us here in Norway. The Central Party and the Government are committed to a high priority being given to efforts to reduce violent extremism and terrorism and organised crime. The government is proposing a 1 pst aid budget. of gross national income for official development assistance in 2022. In total, it amounts to 41.1 billion. kr and implies an increase of 3 billion. kr, or 8 pst. as compared to the 2021 balance of the budget. That's the facts. The goal of Norwegian development policy must be social change and not just charity. This objective is demanding, but particularly important to maintain. It is both an expression of solidarity and in the Norwegian interest to contribute to a more fair world and to the fact that fewer people have to live in freedom and distress. The fight against global differences and for global food security is more important than ever. This involves combating climate change to the greatest extent – where margins are lower, the consequences are greatest. This budget is guided by six areas of development policy: unite climate and development policies and prioritise renewable energy combating hunger and increasing food safety; combat inequality strengthening women's rights humanitarian aid; combating infectious diseases; I record that some of it has already been the subject of debate, but this government has therefore chosen to trace its own tracks from these priorities. I would like to mention in particular that the government proposes to grant 500 million. to combat hunger and contribute to increased food safety. The appropriations will increase from 952 million. kr i Prop. 1 S, from the Solberg government, to over 1.4 billion. kr. We are going to bet on climate-smart agriculture, where small-scale food producers and food operators are given special priority. The Hurdal platform is clear that hunger and food security will become an enhanced field of action in Norwegian development policy. It is two to three times more effective to invest in food-producing sectors, agriculture, fisheries and aquaculture than other poverty-reduction measures, according to the World Bank. Society has changed considerably in the last 20 years. The threat picture is unpredictable and unpredictable. These threats will re-test Norwegian security policy. We can no longer rest on the road choices of our predecessors. Policies need to take greater account of forces and weaknesses across societal sectors and established capacities with flexibility to address threats we do not know. The government will set down a broad composite preparedness commission, which will lead a global societal preparedness. In addition, a self-defence commission is being set up in these days. It is essential for Norway to have a modern and allied defence. We must have a national and autonomous defence with appropriate capacities on land, in air, at sea and in the digital space. The long-term plan continues a joint operational defence concept for Norway, consisting of national defence capabilities, NATO collective defence and bilateral support and reinforcements from close allies. NATO membership is a pillar of Norwegian defence and security policy, and it is very important that defence is able to meet challenges Norway can face in the north. Defence and military presence in northern Norway must be strengthened. At the same time, the defence must also be able to contribute to joint efforts for international peace and security. It is strategically important to ensure the presence and fighting power of Troms and Finnmark. Norway is a coastal country with one of the world's longest coastlines. Maritime defence and air defence play an important role in monitoring our large coastal and marine areas. Norway is in this area of NATO in the north. Together with intelligence, cyber defence and land defence, this enables us to carry out the important tasks of the defence alliance that our geographical location gives us. We must never forget this. We must follow up and facilitate the phase-in of new fighter and surveillance aircraft in the Air Force. In the coming long-term, it is essential that the Army evolves further into a modern land force, and the Government proposes to strengthen the Army’s ability to realise the adopted structure so that existing material can operate in parallel with the introduction of new material in line with its investments. The army continues a further development of Brigade Nord. The army needs new tanks, and it needs to be implemented as quickly as possible within the rules and frameworks applicable to large public acquisitions. The Artillery Valley continues its expansion. In addition, it is very important to develop framework-based support departments that can support the entire defence system. To strengthen the country-military presence in Finnmark, a hunting company in the border guard battalion in the South Varanger garrison will be fully operational in 2022, and it will be working towards a battalion in 2025. For the purpose of Home Security, it is very important to further develop the organisation. The Hurdal platform clearly states that the structure of the Home Office should be increased to 45 000 soldiers, and the preparedness should be set up in such a way that the strength can be grasped when the need arises.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e357	Norwegian foreign policy is determined – as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said on many occasions – by area. I guess the truth is, it's locked up. It means no ambitions, no innovation, no visions. The representative Aukrast claimed from this pulpit that there were new views and that one should look forward to the world. It's flakes. I think most people realize that. But it hardly means anything if it's the Workers' Party or the Right that governs the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is in charge just as he used to. There is no difference between Minister for Foreign Affairs Eriksen Soreide or Minister for Foreign Affairs Huitfeldt, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs himself says when foreign policy is going to be firm. I also noticed that from the former Foreign Minister's posts here, where she discussed 15 million. kr here and 30 million. in an aid budget of 40 bn. kr. Obviously, this is trivial, and it's semantics that you're doing. The National Audit Office’s report on Norwegian aid policy should be an eye-opener. There is a continuous slaughter of today's aid policy. The August representative can talk about these six areas that the government is about to prioritise now — and the order was climate, inequality, women's right to decide over their own bodies, food safety, the fight against infectious diseases, and humanitarian relief. I record that the climate was first, before people starved – because that was the order of what the Aukrust representative was concerned about. I guess people in Africa, the Middle East and elsewhere are very happy with that priority. The main conclusion of the Riksrevision report is that there is too much money in the system. These are spread for too many purposes, too many recipients, too many actors and in too many countries. It is too demanding to have an overview and follow-up, and the more money, the more need becomes for administration, consultants and reporting. New money is injected every year — an increase of one billion or two — or a thousand million or two — in one year? Who in the world can absorb that kind of money from one year to another? It's completely impossible. If you had done this to the defense, the head of defense wouldn't know where to spend this money. Because there are long-term priorities, there are long-term projects, and then thousands of millions cannot be injected overnight. It's unprofessional politics. I can mention – without it being very important in this context – that today's aid policy is equal to 8 000 kroner per Norwegian, 15 000 kroner per taxpayer or 32 000 kroner for a family of four. Then we have an obligation to use this money in a good way. There is a pointless competition between the parties to appear like the party with the warmest heart. But with a warm heart one must also have a cold head. It doesn't help how hot the heart is, if you're not able to look at how the money is spent, use self-criticism, priorities and be clear on the results. The report must lead to a radical shift in aid policy. In yesterday's News 18, the Minister for Development said that the Riksrevision has only looked at a few dozen funds, and that this is not a criticism of the whole aid as such. Well, let's think about it a little bit. A large part of the criticism from the National Audit Office is about the lack of control, both the actual costs of the funds and the funds that Norway supports at all. According to the National Audit Office's report, for example: neither the Ministry of Foreign Affairs nor Norad an up-to-date list of all funds and all countries receiving Norwegian support through the World Bank Fund by 2021. It's scandalous. The report also states that several embassies lack a complete overview of Norwegian support for the various funds at country level. It also states that several embassies are uncertain whether they would receive information if misinformation and corruption were to arise in Norwegian funded funds at country level. This is not a criticism that concerns only the funds that the Riksrevision has seen, but it bears witness to a systemic problem. The Riksrevisor told the media that his impression is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs only celebrates the billions away without being concerned with the results. Does the Minister for Development think it might be an idea to reduce aid in order to gain better control of the resources available to you? Or are we going to increase it every year, by a billion or two, to sunbathe in the media? Assistance should help countries to cope — help self-help. If you, for example, providing social assistance to someone in need of public assistance, is the goal of this person getting out of it and not having social assistance in the future. That's the whole point of social assistance. It's not to put this person on eternal social assistance. But that's what we do: we paralyze the countries we give money. They're not able to feed themselves, they're not able to set up their own business, they're not able to get jobs, they're not able to protect women -- because we're telling them just how to set up their own countries. We do institution building that doesn't work, according to our principles. The six principles of Aukrust are a good example of its failure. We should have clear demands, clear targets, time-limited projects and withdraw if the country's authorities are not involved in that effort, the effort we are making. The LAG test is, of course, how many countries become independent of assistance when we provide assistance, not how many countries we can provide assistance to – or 143 countries, as we do now. There are a lot of people who don't want any help. I asked the Minister for Development about this, and I was told that only South Korea has become independent. That's a terrible result. If we inject billions into billions, it's not going to be independent. You have a population explosion, and none, no one responds to it, which is the big problem. The head of the UN Food Fund, Beasley, said just that when he spoke to the committee's management in the last period. I met a woman from Ethiopia – she gave birth to her tenth child before she was 30. It goes without saying that it is not possible to continue with the policy that we are doing today. You say you want to fight infant mortality – yes, it's very fine. It's a good thing that this woman gets ten instead of eight children. Of course, it's positive, but it doesn't help anyone in the long term. It has to be that way that we help to save people, and to make them do it by themselves. The U.D.’s previous special mission to Somalia, Mjaugedal, says that the billions of Norway have provided assistance to Somalia, have had no positive effect — they have even acted against their intentions. It's a powerful diet. The projects crack in all directions, without a complete rear thought – a patchwork of good intentions and zero power. He believes that intellectual laziness and lack of knowledge – intellectual laziness and lack of knowledge – in political direction leads to money being spent in shelter and weather without long-term impact, and that it is an accepted fool's game. Mjaugedal further says that he has not met anyone, neither local, central or international aid workers, who have faith in this. Then you celebrate it under the carpet and discuss a million here or two million there, or maybe a billion here or a billion there. What have we got back? was the question Mjaugedal got. He said: «We have many well-paid jobs in the support industry. But it hasn't given rise, we haven't stopped the flow of refugees and we haven't stopped terror. It has not improved the conditions of the Somali people. The whole project is difficult to defend.’ It says one with 30 years of experience who has been responsible for our development aid in Somalia, and then we don't listen! What kind of policy is it when this government is going to conduct the same policy as the previous government, and the next government is going to conduct the same policy as this government? It is not possible to pursue policies in this way. So a little bit about Palestinian textbooks: in the speech, the Progress Party is promoting a request for a stop in aid to Palestinian educational authorities. The proposals of the Progress Party are identical to those of the previous year's comments, as the entire Committee agreed on the following: ‘The Committee considers it necessary to ensure that Norwegian funds support ethically sound teaching and provide a basis for peaceful coexistence and tolerance for future generations in the region, and considers that the government must use available means to achieve this.’; It hasn't happened, and now it's a new government. The report from the George Eckert Institute, which was set to make a report on this, says that it has become better, but absolutely not okay. It is a glorification of violence and terrorism, and the terrorist Dalal Mughrabi is being promoted as an example of resistance struggle and a female role model, as it says. The State of Israel is not mentioned by name, and Israeli cities are not on the map. It snorts under a reinforced hat in the students, as the report also says. In a press release following the debate in forty years before the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the day, the following to Norwegian media: ‘More Norwegian peaks react strongly after the content of the new Palestinian schoolbooks became known. Now Anniken Huitfeldt asks [[Ap]] – We need to be sure that the money is used to promote peace and reconciliation, not to build up contradictions. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to explain the matter and what the government has done when they came to know about these matters. We will await questions about appropriations after this presentation," says Huitfeldt." The appropriations came, but the books didn't get much better. I have many more pages I wish I could make. Now I see the time is running out. Instead of yelling louder or reading even faster, I would rather take a three-minute post a little later. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e404	Should the representative take up the proposals of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e409	Yes, I address that proposal of the Progress Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e414	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e419	The security and defence policy of the SV aims to secure Norwegian sovereignty and democracy through an active peace policy, international disarmament and disarmament efforts, and through a strong national defence capable of asserting the sovereignty of our own territories as far as possible. Unfortunately, foreign and defence policy has been in the wrong direction for many years. Instead of contributing vigorously to disarmament internationally, Norway has contributed to upgrading. Instead of contributing to the relaxation, Norway is helping to increase the tension between the major powers. Instead of building a Norwegian defence with a focus on monitoring coastal and marine areas and being present locally across the country to have a solid national preparedness, defence policy has made us increasingly dependent on others and strengthened those parts of defence that are not supposed to defend Norway at all, but are contributing to warfare internationally. Norway has had a defence policy that is based, not primarily, on Norwegian interests, but more on the interests of the United States. An example of political choices that do not seem to defend the country is the closure of Andeya Air Station as the base of our maritime surveillance flights. Surveillance flights make an invaluable effort to have an overview and preparedness and assert sovereignty in sea areas. That job they do best by being stationed on Andeya. The benefits of Andøya are many. It's about geographical location, it's about topography, and it's about infrastructure that's in place at Andøya Air Station, both when it's about ammunition, and when it's about fuel. SV has not given up the fight for Andøya Air Station to continue to play a role in the defence of Norway. We suggest in our alternative budget that we have money for the operation of the air station in 2022. The defence budget has for a long time had an imbalance between investment and operation. Large quantities of high-tech material have been purchased without having the infrastructure around and not least adequate manning in place. On the contrary, major misinvestments have gone beyond defence capabilities, and the purchase of new fighter aircraft is the prime example of this. SV therefore proposes in our alternative budget to strengthen the operation of the defence. We listen to the many concerns about the personnel situation in the Defense and want more settings in the Army, the Home Guard and the Coast Guard. In the development budget, SV has four main priorities. It's climate and nature because the climate and natural crisis is the worst setting for the poorest. It's a fight against global inequality, against tax havens and tax evasions. It's a fight for democracy and human rights and a strong civil society, and it's a fight for equality and women's rights internationally. Therefore, in our alternative state budget, we propose to increase the effort on all of these areas. At least as important as having a good development budget is looking beyond this budget and the assistance, for Norway's combined efforts in these important struggles are about much more than assistance. The struggle against the pandemic illustrates this well. The pandemic and the economic uncertainty it has created have seen the fight against poverty and inequality many years ago. At the same time, developments have also fully demonstrated that our own security and well-being are closely linked to global conditions. These crises show both the need for increased international involvement and the weaknesses of current international cooperation. The highly unparalleled misalignment in the availability of vaccines, drugs and test equipment in the fight against covid-19 frames in the first few poor in the world, but as we experience painfully in recent times, it is also a threat to life, health and well-being in the whole world, including in Norway. Most importantly now, there is a wide exemption for patents and intellectual property rights for vaccines, medicines, test equipment, etc. in the fight against covid-19. The signal from the government to at least support a patent exemption for vaccines is a step in the right direction, but SV believes that we should take the whole step and support the whole proposal from South Africa and India in the World Trade Organisation. The budgetary agreement with the government does not fulfill all the SV's wishes and priorities in the development budget, but we have gained an important impact by getting the development budget up to 1 pst. of GNI. Norway must have a clear voice for international solidarity, and that voice has greater legitimacy when we also prioritise development in our own budget. It was a pleasure to see that we had a positive impact on the final improvement of the peace organisations' backlog. This has long been down priorities. It has been our cut under the previous government and the political plurality that have been the previous eight years. For example, the ICAN Peace Prize winner has not been able to support its important work on nuclear disarmament and an international ban on nuclear weapons. They can do this now, and several other organisations can now be supported. We see this as a very good investment in the fight for Norway to become a peace nation again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e441	Should the representative address the proposal of which SV is part?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e446	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e451	The representative, Ingrid Fiskaa, then addressed the proposal from SV and Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e456	The foreign budget is important because it says something about what Norway wants in the world, and how we intend to achieve our objectives. For the Left, it is clear that the solutions to today's greatest challenges are international, whether they be climate, migration, the fight against poverty or the fight for human rights. The answer lies in more international cooperation, not less. That is why we will be a clear voice in this Chamber when the government weakens Norway's relationship with Europe, loses out on our efforts to reduce emissions, or deviates from important human rights issues. It defines our task in the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee over the next four years. I could have used my post to give the hall an overview of the re-priorities the government has made in the foreign budget that we disagree with. There's a lot here that it's worth criticizing, but the criticism also comes out well through our remarks. That's why I thought I'd use my measured five minutes to focus on a cut that I'm afraid is a little symptomatic of the direction that the government has pointed out in foreign policy. The theme I want to address is the government's decision not to establish a focal point for health innovation in Oslo. Establishing this node right in Oslo was an ambition shared by the blue-green government with UNICEF. The plans were clear, before the new government in a completely unexpected decision decided to scrape the entire project. In the Government Platform, the Workers' Party and the Centre Party say that Norway should ‘be a driver to strengthen the United Nations system, make it more effective and representative, and work for Nordic coordination and a clearer Nordic voice in the United Nations’. But just the week after, they were shriggling the plan of a UNICEF health innovation node. I know that the Development Minister himself was not on Lake Hurdal, but it surprises me that she has taken so lightly on this sentence that on the first occasion she turns her thumb down to get a UN office in Oslo. In Avisa Oslo, my party trap Grunde Almeland asked: «Had it been okay if the office should be in Nordreisa?» In this room, Minister of Development Anne Beathe Twinnereim said that she did not think it was equally decisive where the node is. To be a central party, the Council of State shows surprisingly little interest in where a public office is to be established, but perhaps it can be precisely because it is in Oslo? The council also said in this room that she did not think that 50 million. DKK of an aid budget of 40 billion. kr is a good use of Norwegian aid. Of course, the most important thing for the Left is not whether the office is in Oslo or not. What I'm most curious about is that the government and the government see so little value in investing in health innovation right now when we're in a global pandemic. This is not about a distant or indefinable purpose; it is about developing solutions that can help the very most vulnerable of the most vulnerable: children growing up in low-income and middle-income countries, children who have lived and died in the shadow of the coronary apathy in the last two years. We are delayed in the fight against measles. It's a disease that kills 140,000 people every year. This innovation node would be a key to ensuring that we have the solutions that are needed to ensure that children do not have to suffer the death of diseases that we both can and should prevent. The Council of State believes that the focal point is not crucial, but this is not about Oslo earning such a hub. It is about the fact that work on health innovation deserves the place that has the best competence and the best resources to work on this topic. The reason Oslo won the battle to get this center is that we have the skills and resources that could have contributed to the global fight for children's health. We lost on the finish line because the government couldn't prioritize 50 million. kr per year in an aid budget of 40 billion. kr. I hope that all my colleagues on the Oslo bench – Kamzy Gunaratnam, Marian Hussein, Trine Lise Sundnes, Andreas Shelg Unneland, Frode Jacobsen and Siri Gaasemyr Staales – will take up the fight for our city, but not least the global health of children, to get this office. We are tabling a proposal that they can vote in favour of today to support the establishment of this centre. The decision to shut it down was made in a hurry. Neither Stortinget nor UNICEF was informed. Today, the government has the opportunity to turn around, and the government parties and SV are completely free to vote in favour of the proposal and reverse their own decision when it comes to placing the office in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e477	Red stands for a defence policy where we will give priority to the defence of Norway instead of the United States and NATO's attack fighters abroad. We want to strengthen Norway's self-defence, not let the United States take over Norwegian defence functions and use Norwegian territory for life-threatening war-shisting against Russia. We will also give priority to the defence's most important resource, personnel, in front of extremely expensive equipment that is more suitable for the U.S. Attack Wars than for the defence of Norway. In our budget, we show that it is possible to reintroduce common sense into Norwegian defence policy. We're strengthening Homeland with 10,000 more soldiers and more practice. The army gets more personnel, artillery, helicopter in Bardufoss and establishment of leadership training in North Norway. We restore the Sjöheimevertet, secure several years' work in the Coast Guard, take back the operation of cleankeeping in the Defense and grant more to the Defence College and Norwegian war veterans. These measures cost money, but we have coverage for every penny we spend on strengthening defence in Norway. We cut unnecessary expenses for military operations abroad, which have been at the expense of Norway's defence capabilities over the last decades, and in many cases have contributed to major civil suffering, more terror and less security. We cut the costs of F-35 – an aircraft that, according to the U.S. Air Force, is not suitable for everyday use, which according to the U.S. National Audit Office is standing on the ground due to faults and deficiencies, and which has operating costs that are so high that it will go beyond the rest of the Defense for decades to come. People around the world are fighting for freedom, justice and democracy. Red will change Norwegian foreign policy and want Norway to join forces with the people suffering from poverty created by capitalist injustice and those affected by climate change, war and oppression. Our goal is for Norway to become a driver of peace, global redistribution and a fair climate policy. Therefore, we must break with the foreign-policy elite, who are more responsive to the interests of the American empire than to peace, poverty-fighting and climate. We cut in the financing of NATO's war elevator, and we increase the appropriations for peacekeeping and disarmament in Norway and the world by another 240 million. kr, including support earmarked for ICAN Peace Prize Winners, No for Nuclear Weapons and the Norwegian Peace Council. Red supports the collapse decision to at least 1 pst. of gross national income should go to aid, but we believe that neither refugee action in Norway, global environmental measures, nor vaccine development, which almost only benefits rich countries, should be counted as aid, so that we allocate 573 million. extra to the municipal budget for refugees and frees up as much for extra assistance purposes abroad. We grant funds to receive 5,000 quota refugees and 1,500 refugees from high-pressure countries, such as Greece and Italy. Red will have assistance that is locally anchored, jointly and severally, and that contributes to redistribution and poverty reduction. That is why we are increasing support for trade union movements, indigenous people, women's movements and other grassroots movements, and we are cutting back on neoliberal actors such as the World Bank. In addition, we are increasing assistance to civil society and relief to Afghanistan, where millions are now on the verge of starvation after 20 years of devastating NATO war. We are also increasing support for Western Sahara, Kurdish Red Crescent in Northern Syria and Palestinian organisations supporting peaceful BDS measures against the violation of Israel's international law. Those inside Israel, who have been defined as terrorists for no reason, too, we want to strengthen support for strengthening civil society in both Palestine and Israel.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e498	There is no clearer, sharper revelation of the soul of a society than the way it treats its children," said Nelson Mandela. It is true both in the local community, in the national community and for the global community at large. In this way, UNICEF's latest report is a serious warning about the state of the world. UNICEF says that we risk losing a whole generation of children and young people because of covid-19: 100 million more children have fallen into poverty because of the pandemic and its consequences. The number of child workers is expected to increase by 9 million by the end of 2022. About 10 million more children could risk getting married before this decade is over, as a result of pandemic and closure. 45 pst. Of the girls in some areas in some of our cooperating countries, there was no return to school when the schools reopened. Nine million more children are at risk of dying of serious malnutrition the next year. This is some of what the report refers to, and it's shocking reading. So it is a disaster today and, at the same time, it strikes in the future in the countries affected. Despite this situation, despite the fact that we are in the middle of an acute pandemic, and despite an declared objective to combat inequality and injustice, the government and the Swedish Government have thus agreed to cut over half a billion dollars to combat international poverty in relation to the Solberg government's draft budget. I had never thought – never imagined – that we would get there. There is a short time to complain about working with the budget, but one has thus moved to prioritize such cuts in a short time. Despite the situation of the world's children, the government and the Swedish government have decided to cut more than 600 million. SEK, 662 million. kr, for education in the budget - education, which is the key to rebuilding country after crisis. Despite the fact that 9 million more children are at risk of acute starvation, the government has decided to cut 320 million. kr for Peace Prize winner World Food Programme. It does, even if you know that the food program may be the most important tool we have to save these children. These are priorities that are almost incomprehensible. But not enough: in the middle of this critical situation, the Hurdals Platform government has lowered its ambitions by the fact that one will no longer commit to giving 1 pst. of GNI for official development assistance. International sustainability measures do not imply official development assistance. It is enough of countries that unfortunately go their own ways and cutters in vital humanitarian aid and development cooperation. It shouldn't be our way. Everyone understands that this can have major consequences, because without such a commitment it is easy to pick up the extra money a person would like to have had for other good purposes, such as for example. climate action, from the assistance. It is a terrible bad idea to send the bill for Norway's climate obligations to the world's poorest. The Christian People's Party believes that Norway's contribution to global climate funding needs to be considerably increased, and therefore we added to the budget a doubling of climate aid and a tripling of the climate adaptation strategy by 2025. We also launched 10 billion. for the next five years of a climate adaptation fund. The list of initiatives is long. All our global climate funding cannot be paid by cutting the percentage that Norway, with strong and solidarity in the Norwegian people, has set aside to combat international poverty. It's neither fair nor sustainable. Any government can and should make its own assessments of the priorities of development policy. At the same time, there are some areas where Norway has over time developed an international leadership. I believe that Norway's international influence is a responsible government obligation to manage well. Such an area is global health, so we in the Christian People's Party are pleased that the government, with the Prime Minister at its head, is continuing Norway's active role in the fight against the pandemic and working to strengthen global health preparedness in the future. It deserves to be praised. I hope the government accepts that there are non-infectious diseases that take the most lives. Overall, these diseases exceed 70 pst. of the burden of disease and early deaths globally. During the Solberg government, Norway, as the first country in the world, launched its own strategy to combat non-infectious diseases, including mental disorders, in developing countries. The government's signals have so far been unclear, but I hope this debate can help clarify that the government will continue to escalate for global mental health and the fight against non-infectious diseases.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e519	The main lines of Norwegian foreign policy are firm, but Norwegian foreign policy as such should and should not do so simply because the world is changing. That was my message when I stood here as an opposition politician, and that is also my message now. When we see the pandemic, when we see increasing major activisation, it is clear that in some areas we need to change the political instruments we use, even though the main lines and the international forms of association are fixed. We've seen in recent years that disarmament agreements are collapsing, we've seen a global pandemic, which is increasing poverty in the world, and we've seen a lot more crises and conflicts that drive people on the run. Therefore, our foreign policy must be based on meeting these challenges. So I notice that the disagreement in this room is primarily between the former government parties, and at least it is worth noting, and that the disagreement between the parties that form the basis of this budget, namely the SV, the Central Party and the Workers' Party, is much smaller than the four that formed a budgetary base in the eight preceding years. For example, we can build bridges. on the issue of renewable energy. The left, who has had to see a budget proposed by the SV, the Labour Party and the Central Party, get to see a huge increase in this area, and that's probably also why the Left's representative did not choose to talk about what might be the main thing of the Left's, when she talked about the budget here instead. Another example is the disarmament policy, in which I believe that this government is building a broad basis in the Grand Duchy. The majority said a few years ago that the humanitarian initiative should be continued. That did not happen to the former government, and we are much more able to build a broad basis on the Storting around the disarmament initiatives we are taking. It's important for us to focus on the relationship between hunger and climate. That's exactly why we were so disappointed that a few days ago Russia vetoed a resolution on this in the Security Council. A country like Niger is particularly concerned that drought and climate change help to increase hunger, and therefore there is a link between what we do in climate change and what we do to combat hunger in the world. Human rights are also a priority for us. We see that some authoritarian leaders have relatively large popular uprisings, but democracy is destroyed from within by attacks on important institutions, such as attacks on independent courts and prosecutions, attacks on freedom of the press, lack of independent media, and attacks on civil society and independent trade unions. That's why our main priorities will be about it. Then we see that many people in the world are fleeing. That is why we have been committed to establishing a solidarity pot, because we see that in many communities there are conflicts, growing conflicts, between those who have lived there before, and those who come as refugees. That is why we believe that we, as an important actor in international society, are responsible for having a fair refugee policy in Norway, but also help to ensure that refugees are properly protected where they are. It has been an important change in our budget to increase the appropriations for culture and food promotion. Especially at a time when we need more bones to stand on, and we need to increase Norwegian exports, we will better enable the EEAS to promote Norwegian businesses abroad. That's the same thing about cultural exports. We're in a cultural flowering time in a lot of markets. We see that in the world, among other things. in Germany and the United States, and therefore it is a clear priority in this budget that we should increase the appropriations in this area. I believe that in this budget we do not make such major changes compared to what was the government's original budget, but we have made some important strategic priorities that are in line with the government platform. Then I have some comments on what has come up. It doesn't seem like I'm getting time for it in this round, but I guess I'll get it in sequence. I can only say that for the northern regions is the largest cut made by the former government because of unused funds. There's a slight adjustment we're making now, in line with what I think the former foreign minister has quite a good overview of, that some of the measures that are being put at risk because of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e542	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e547	In 2018, the Solberg Government put forward a strategy for humanitarian policy that was an important tool to make efforts more focused on those who need the most help, and not least to see the link between the short-term humanitarian need, the long-term development needs and the peace dimension, which is an important aspect of this. They also established strategic partnerships with six Norwegian humanitarian organisations to provide them with both long-term and predictability to work in a more efficient and good way. Civil protection was one of the main priorities. So the government is re-prioritising 1.2 billion. kr from well-known and functioning channels to a solidarity pot with unknown content and device. Why does the government choose to break up the system we have, in order to maintain – obviously, in the proposition – the same objectives that we pursue today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e554	This is because we believe that the former government was not concrete enough and committed enough to help people living in refugee camps today. We see that there are conflicts in many communities where refugees are meant to live for a few years, but where they stay a lot longer. One concrete example of this is that many water bottles are run in to cover water shortages, but in many of these cases it may be just as wise to drill wells, and to see the short-term humanitarian aid and the longer-term in a context. We believe that the former government has not been concrete enough and obligating enough to help people living in refugee camps who have fled from crises and conflict. That is why we have changed our policy in line with the world we are seeing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e559	That, I think, was a rather strange answer – to say it carefully. One is that the government doubled aid for the humanitarian field precisely because more and more people need humanitarian aid. We asked for humanitarian aid against the strategic partnerships just to help people better. A very significant part of the 10 billion. The last government promised – and gave – to the Syria crisis was just the neighbouring countries that accepted all the refugees, so that they could not only be accommodated in refugee camps but also be integrated into the host society, especially in Jordan. I also think it's a very clear move from this government that they do big cuts and re-priorities in what we know works, and that has channels that are good. The World Food Programme is another example in which the previous government, and in the budgetary comparisons with the Progress Party in the Storting, had a large increase. Now it's a 320-million cut. kr. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think this is perceived internationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e567	With regard to the transfer to the World Food Programme, it is 100 million. kr higher than in 2020. It's very important to get involved. It is quite little impressive to propose increases in a budget that the former Foreign Minister did not know would be adopted. It's typically also for this budget, which we've seen in a lot of areas, that once you've been running for eight years and you know that you're going to go off, there's suddenly a lot of commitment in a lot of bet areas. When we look at the World Food Programme, this is also an area that Southide itself has proposed a reduction of 80 million. NOK 2021 to 2022. This means that she also believes that that budget line has been somewhat high. It is also natural to think, when we look at the humanitarian budget, that it is very flexible – and then go in where there is a need. It is clear that if it is the most appropriate way to spend money, it may involve increasing contributions to the World Food Programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e574	It's fascinating to see how former and current foreign minister desperately try to find a 15-million-dollar dispute. I'll give you $10 million. kr there, and about who has the warmest heart, but you got two lines out of it, and that's well done. Assistance recently reported that of the assistance Syria received, half went to the Assad regime because of currency speculation or that they ran up the Syrian dollar. So all the help went in Syrian dollars, but it was Assad who even manipulated the rate, and half went to his regime, while only the other half went to what was intention. I asked the Minister for Development the same thing, but it wasn't her responsibility, so when do I ask the person responsible, if she's aware of it, and if she's corrected it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e583	What's important about the assistance we give to Syria, where the ground situation is actually worse than in a long time, and worse than in parts of the civil war, is that we've been busy securing humanitarian aid to people in need. That has been the basis for the priorities we have done. Then it is important that we mobilise our own funds to people in Syria, no matter what parts of Syria you live in, but it is also important that we mobilise other countries in the region to take greater responsibility for people in need. Then there are completely different criteria for what is often long-term assistance than for what is short-term humanitarian action. As things stand now, we are in danger of seeing a humanitarian crisis, where I think it is very important that we help. We also need to make clear to the Assad regime the responsibility for the crimes he has committed in various ways, including humanitarian aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e590	I thank you for that non-response. My point was that the Assad regime gets the money that Norway gives – that's my point. But let's go to the Palestinian textbooks, which Georg Eckert Institute revealed still contain hatred, intolerance, and antisemitism. It's documented. Before Georg Eckert Institute delivered this report, it was even worse. Then the then head of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee asked the then Foreign Minister to make a statement in the Storting, so my question is really whether today's Foreign Minister will make a statement, as she asked the previous Foreign Minister to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e597	I share the view of the former government, for which Christian Tybring-Gjedde was the parliamentary basis, that the content of the Palestinian school books has been improved from 2017 to today. The institution to which the representative refers has provided a report which also shows this. However, it is clear that there are examples of problematic content in Palestinian schoolbooks, and we are working for further improvement of syllabus, even if progress is in the right direction, as is also underlined in the report. It is the EU that has been commissioned by that report and that has also maintained training support for Palestine, and it also reinforces this impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e604	Israel has defined six Palestinian civil society actors as terrorist organisations. These six defend the rights of imprisoned children, the rights of victims of ethnic cleansing, and they document war crimes against international courts. The government will not yet condemn this terrorist list and says it is waiting for more Israeli evidence, which must come within a reasonable time. But for every day that goes without the list of terror being lifted, the Israeli occupying power comes a step closer to crushing Palestinian civil society. I wonder what is so-called reasonable time, and how long it will take for the government to demand that Israel lift this list of terrors.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e611	I assume that the class struggle is a newspaper that the representative of Moxnes reads. There was a post along the lines that the representative came with, in yesterday's class struggle, which I also responded to. It is clear that we have not received that documentation, so we do not relate to it. They have been given a deadline to submit documentation, which they have not done. Therefore, we do not want to stop the cooperation with these organisations that the representative points to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e616	Since the Foreign Minister himself addressed the climate in his post, I almost have to follow it up in the reply box, because it is absolutely right that it is the most important thing for the Left. In order to define what is a good climate budget, I think it is important that we look at the whole picture and not just at single bets, and the government has so far been unable to say anything about how to calculate the climate impact of the budget agreement, whether it has been strengthened or weakened. On the contrary, there is evidence that some of the measures taken have weakened the climate impact of the budget. I believe that whether it's domestic cut or we're talking about foreign budget bets, it's important that Norway goes ahead and shows that we're also willing to cut to take the role that we want internationally. But my challenge is really more about what kind of alliances we're building. In the case of oil drilling in the Arctic, this government has chosen to build alliances with Russia, while we believe that we should build alliances with the EU, which, of course, takes precedence over the green transition. Why is it so important to have alliances with Russia over the EU on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e625	Norwegian gas is essential for a green shift in Europe, and therefore we depend on having good supplies in this area. The most important thing we can do is to contribute to the competence we have in renewable energy, hydropower, and in the oil and gas sectors, to get new industries going. That's one of the reasons why we're now making a big contribution in the United States to getting wind at sea. It is not relevant for Norway to shut down the Norwegian oil and gas industry or stop it in the north. We want to use this competence to contribute to the green shift. I would also argue that it is important what we do on the aid budget. I am very pleased that we have received a power increase on renewable energy, also because this is an area in which Norway has special competence. By contributing to the availability of clean energy for poor countries, Norway can make a major effort in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e632	The Foreign Minister himself spoke in his speech about security policy, which is unusually important for Norway. I have previously tried to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs about the point of the Hurdal platform dealing with the new security policy dialogue in the North to discuss security policy challenges, and it was very difficult to get an answer to which countries are to be included in the dialogue, what to discuss. The closest thing to us was that the Foreign Minister said: ‘But what matters to me is the cooperation between the heads of defence to be predictable, whether it be exercises or other military activity in the north.’ I would like the Minister of Foreign Affairs to clarify what cooperation is involved and between which heads of defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e642	It is a dialogue, but this is a question that the Minister of Defence may have to answer. He even sits in the hall, so I suggest that the question goes to him.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e648	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e653	When you listen to some of the recordings here in the Chamber today, you should almost think that there were huge reasons between our views on development policy. Fortunately, it's not like that. Most of us share the goal of eradicating extreme poverty by 2030. But the new government reserves the right to adjust its use on the way there. We live in a time of enormous challenges, and many of these are closely related to the economic inequality in the world and the injustice we see. The pandemic has made these differences more visible and larger, but the goal remains to eradicate all extreme poverty by 2030 and reach the 17 sustainability goals that we agree on. That's why we have to have a policy that hits where it can do the most. The government is going to continue good traditions in Norwegian aid, but at the same time we are going to trigger new energy where the potential for ring effects is the greatest, and therefore dare to do some repriorities. We believe that these areas are climate adaptation, food security and renewable energy. At the same time, the government will take the consequence that the major challenges cannot be met through individual actions towards individual groups in individual countries. We need national and global changes based on the right of all people to decent life and work. Therefore, it is essential to contribute to positive social change where work on good governance, governance, good health and, above all, strengthening women's rights are part of development policy. We need to reconcile climate and development policies, improve the links between humanitarian and long-term action. We double the commitment to climate finance, and not least we triple the funds for climate change adaptation by 2026 and thus meet an important demand from developing countries. This will provide both emission reductions and poverty reduction, through new jobs, more food, better health, better climate. We have to do what we can to make every country join a green shift. Some priorities therefore had to be given to give way to the measures we think are creating the most development. But we're proposing to increase the total bet by 3.2 billion. kr compared to the 2021 budget of the Solberg Government. Even more important is that our instruments hit where they trigger the most sustainable growth. As long as our greatest challenges reinforce each other, we also need to select mutually reinforcing instruments. There is hardly any development policy tool that can create more ring-effects than giving people access to renewable energy. That's why we're adding up to increase the effort in that field by 420 million. kr. As long as nearly a billion people lack access to electricity, this is a serious obstacle to entering a positive spiral of development. For the same reason, we want to strengthen the investment in food security and climate-smart agriculture by half a billion dollars. Our assistance should improve value chains and weather forecasting services, ensure the world's peasants' access to seed that tolerates more rain, more drought. This makes it easier for them to take the future into their own hands. We know from Norwegian history that good distribution is not only right and fair, it is also a source of economic growth. Norway shall again take new initiatives to combat tax evasion, corruption and illegal capital movements. We're also going to take a leading role in women's right to control their own bodies, and we're going to increase the allocations for family planning and prevention. Together with SV, we have reached an agreement to strengthen work with women and gender equality in Africa. We take responsibility for global pandemic management and continue the Norwegian co-management of the ACT-Accelerator mechanism, and the overall allocation to global health is proposed to increase to 4.2 billion. kr. In terms of education, we're going to have 3.4 billion. continue the previous government's target of a double from 2013. We're inside a crucially long-term question to get to the right side of the story by 2030. If we are to succeed, we must reconcile climate and development policies and give priority to improving the instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e674	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e679	My reply is about where it was of 662 million. kr in the budget for education next year. Education is the key to sustainable development aid, economic growth and also self-rescue and equality. Education gives young girls a future and escapes coerciveness and oppression. It was therefore not surprising that a total increase was behind a multiannual commitment to the Global Partnership for Education, the GPE. But with a pen stroke, the government has halved Norway's long-standing commitment to this and removed education from the list of priority areas of development policy. The right has repeatedly raised the question with the Council of State, but has not received a full explanation. So I try again: what is due to the government's down-priority of education in development policy? Where did it go of 662 million? kr in this area next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e694	The representative Schou asks more questions, as I understand it. Training assistance is very important. That's why we're continuing a level of 3.4 billion. kr, which is it lifted the previous government had when they entered the government. It's important. But it is also the case that training aid is spread across a variety of budget lines. The Ingerd Schou takes up here is the so-called mandate that the Stortinge gave this summer to grant up to 3.7 billion. kr to GPE. I believe it was not proper in future, pressed budgets to commit to such a high amount. That is why we have made a significant commitment to the GPE, but not to full 3,7 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e701	The international reactions have not been absent; they have been strong on the government's cut. When Norway first signals an obligation to then return to it a few months later, we give the impression that we are not credible or stable as a developmental partner, neither in other donor countries nor in recipients. How does the Council of State intend to repair the impression that the government has created internationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e708	We cannot cut an obligation that has not been entered into. I would like to emphasise again that this was a mandate from Stortinget, there was no agreement with the GPE to grant these funds. So we've made a commitment of 1.82 billion. kr – a significant amount – to GPE, which means that we may not be the very largest donor to GPE, but still a significant support player. An important objective of this work must be to ensure that countries themselves contribute to their development budgets and to ensure that more countries than Norway also contribute to the budget of the GPE. That is why I believe this was an entirely correct decision. Then I would like to stress that the government has protected other very important measures on the education front, where agreements were made, among other things. in the case of Education Cannot Wait, which is a very important programme to ensure education for children in crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e717	There are a lot of areas that are important in education policy, but the fact that Norway should be a credible player is also about us being behind the signals given by governments of different colors. I hear that the Council of State rides more the legal principle than the moral one. The morals have underpinned the obligations here in the main hall of several governments, for many years. Is it so that the Council of State is completely ignoring this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e724	A government, when it accedes, will necessarily have to make adjustments to make sure that the aid device is at all times as effective as we think it has to be. Then you also have to do some priorities. Then it is important to stress that there was no legal obligation to GPE. It may be tempting to remind the representative of a change of words we had in this room not so long ago, where I saw the representative having to remind myself that the previous government did something perhaps less predictable when they cut commitments, among other things. in the field of renewable energy. This government won't do that. We are not going to add up to break concluded agreements on appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e731	Aid billions are spent on continuous bands without producing results. Recently, we received another report, which goes into a long series. The report from the Riksrevision shows that 5,3 billion were spent. kr through the World Bank only in 2020, and you don't see any trace of results on the ground among those you would actually expect to get anything out of it. In this report we can also read that the feedback that Stortinget receives is simply made-up. It shows how amazing this is, while the negative and the results are being achieved are being underestimated. I'll go so far as to say that the Storting is being led behind the light. There is something the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself writes in its response to the National Audit Office. What does the Minister say to the Storting about the way you report, and the way you waste billions of dollars in aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e741	I strongly disagree with the premise of the representative that aid does not work. We can ask the 2-3 billion children who survive each year because of vaccine assistance. We can ask those countries that have gone from being low-income countries to being middle-income countries, if assistance works. We can ask those countries that have been strengthened by their democratic regimes thanks to assistance. There's a lot of research that shows that aid works. The National Audit Office's report is an important source of correction in the Global Fund facility, but I would like to stress that the National Audit Office only covers four relatively small funds of the many to whom Norway grants money. Of course, the Stortinget will receive unmanufactured reports. [[President clubs]] I can't answer for the last government, but I can promise the representative that... [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e748	The number is out and I guess so. One must respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e753	It is well possible that the minister believes that 5,3 billion. kr is small money. We could give drugs to an incredibly many sick people in Norway. We could help families who don't get the assistance they need to handle sick children. I could still do it for a long time. But it is also interesting to listen to those who have actually worked in this aid industry. Jens Mjaugedal – who is probably known in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as the U.D.’s former Special Envoy in Somalia – says about his career in what he calls the ‘aid circus’: ‘Good, but wasted. Assistance is not working. [[...]] What have we got? [[...]] Nothing. What have we got back? We have a lot of well-paid jobs in the aid industry. But it hasn't given rise, we haven't stopped the flow of refugees and we haven't stopped terror. It has not improved the conditions of the Somali people. The whole project is difficult to defend.’ What is the Minister's response to this quite clear feedback from someone who's been out on the ground, and actually gives feedback about what we're wasting out of money from Norwegian taxpayers? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e765	I would like to stress that we, who are concerned with Norwegian solidarity and Norwegian assistance, are the first to accept both praise, rice and constructive criticism of making assistance more effective. But when the representative is going to comment on the Riksaudition report, I would recommend starting from the whole picture presented by the Riksaudition. I stress that this report is based on four relatively small, limited funds, while the large amount of multilateral assistance through the World Bank is channelled through large, heavy funds that have cut very well on international independent evaluations of aid efficiency.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e772	In his reply, the representative Schou took up the cut in the GPE both because both the Right and the Left are critical to the cut content, and also because we believe that we are violating some of the obligations we have assumed. The Council of State is probably right that it is not a legal obligation, but the Stortinge has adopted this allocation, and Norway has been very clear on our support for the programme. The same thing I believe concerns the focal point for health innovation through UNICEF, which I took up in my post instead. One thing is that a new government will do re-priorities, we have respect for it, another thing is how one thinks Norway is perceived as a partner of important organisations in the future, when one experiences that relatively large changes are made in a short time without good reason and without any warning.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e779	In the case of GPE, I just have to repeat that you cannot cut a commitment that has not yet been entered into. There was no decision on the allocation from Stortinget in this case; there was an authority to grant up to NOK 3.7 billion. kr, and the current government wants to grant at the base of 2 billion. kr over a few years. With regard to the UNICEF node, there is no breach of an agreement that has not been concluded. There was no decision to add this node centre to Oslo. That decision was on my table when I entered the chair as a development minister, and I believe it is wrong to grant half a billion dollars over ten years to manage a centre in Oslo. On the contrary, we must facilitate the international use of this competence for the same purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e786	Back to education, because that's what it is: we've got an answer before, and it surprises me. It will include, among others: that a kutter in education because one wants to bet on other things that will strengthen education, and go away from the promise given by Norway internationally because one believes it gives a good signal to other countries. So there's answers full of paradoxes, one has to say. The fact is that the government received unanimous support here in this house to set of 3.7 billion. to the Global Partnership for Education. I was actively involved. In terms of what it signals, and what it does for those organizations, we've been given very clear signals about the consequences of the cuts. Alice Albright actually says the following about this: This is terribly alarming. By doing this, Norway is indicating: We’re not a reliable partner. So it's serious, and it's irresponsible. Is there anything about GPE, information or knowledge that we haven't gotten that justifies it cut? I would like an answer to that question. Here you're training new teachers, it's educational material, an enthusiast strategically, countries have taken ownership of themselves. Is there any insight we don't have?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e795	GPE is still an important partner for Norway, including in the training initiative, and we allocate considerable funds to GPE. There is no information that the representative does not have, except what he himself certainly reflected on in his chair – namely, that this is spending billions of dollars on the Norwegian aid budget in the coming years. We therefore believe that it was the most appropriate and predictable thing to say that we put ourselves on the original ambition that the previous government had. It makes us a predictable and credible partner while giving room for action to give priority to other assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e800	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e805	The major discussions on Norway’s defences are usually related to a new long-term defence plan. After that, the main task is to provide sufficient resources to meet the long-term plan’s objectives. Peace and security are best ensured through predictable international cooperation, based on international law and peaceful dispute resolution. The cooperation with our NATO allies is the foundation of our military security, and based on the NATO alliance, the defence shall deter and prevent war and conflict. The government has adopted an ambitious long-term defence plan and the new government will follow up. We are facing major investments and the phase-in of new material in the coming years. New fighters, submarines, surveillance planes, new tanks and new helicopters for the army and special forces are among the things that come. In addition, digital developments have become such that the ability of the defence sector to respond to threats in the digital space needs to be strengthened. Therefore, in all these cases when the country has purchases, it is essential to use the possibilities to develop and strengthen repurchase in the Norwegian defence industry. The most important resource in Defense is people. Now the government is adding over 1,000 new annual works to the Defense in the period. This is important, but the challenges today are not only about training and recruiting new staff, but also about how we keep them. During the last year, a number of reviews of the pleasurable housing of soldiers and defence personnel have been dominant in various media. There is talk of living conditions that do not hold good standards, and several trustees in the Defence Department have alerted us about the conditions repeatedly. The words that are left in the descriptions of the worst housing conditions are that they are characterized by mold, wear, mushrooms, narrow rooms and common bathroom and kitchen. We have to take care of our soldiers and employees in the Defense. They have chosen to contribute to my efforts and your peace and security, and therefore the government has now added 38 million. kr in fresh funds that are earmarked for maintenance of the defence building mass. It's hardly enough, but it's a sweet start. Next year is the year of volunteering, and the defense also has its non-governmental organisations. I've met many of them. Organisations stimulate an informed defence debate, increased knowledge and understanding of Norwegian security policy, and that society contributes to supporting the defence objectives and priorities. It is a very important work that bears fruit in the form of a strengthened willingness to defend the people of Norway. Despite the year of volunteering, the Solberg government proposed to cut by 20 pst. to the voluntary organisations. Fortunately, the proposal of the previous government has now been corrected by the Labour Party and the Central Party of the Government. Under the ongoing coronary apathy, many have set up for the community. It also has Homeland Protection. In the Hurdal platform, the government shows that they want to strengthen Home Affairs, and in next year's budget, the operating framework has increased by 40 million. kr. This helps departments to maintain the scope and quality of training and exercises and to have the necessary equipment and administration. For this government, the northern regions are the main strategic area of interest. The new Northern Region policy aims to reverse negative population trends, exploit local values to generate growth, make the northern regions the centre of green conversion and promote new initiatives for cooperation with our neighbours. The importance of living and working throughout the country — in the north as otherwise — is of strategic importance for Norway. Our geographic position in the world makes us the border between east and west, in the north. Through Norwegian presence, and by acting clearly, predictable and reassuringly, we will contribute to the relaxation of our neighbourhoods. It is also a global contribution to relaxation. This includes, inter alia: strengthening cooperation with our neighbours in the north and further developing our relations with Russia in areas of common interest. The Hurdal platform warns the strengthening of people-to-people cooperation, and the institutional cooperation between countries and peoples of the north, such as the Arctic Council and the Barents Council. A new administration in the northern regions will involve strong cross-sectoral investment, such as education and research, resource management, industry and transport. Svalbard has a major strategic impact on Norway’s northern and Arctic opportunities, and svalbard policy is therefore an important part of the government’s north-eastern policy. The government will maintain Norwegian residence on Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e828	Our main economic, political and cultural core area is Europe. We have repeatedly seen through the pandemic how important Europe is to us. When things go well with our neighbouring countries, it is also good news for Norway. Our main and most tangible relationship with the EU comes through the EEA Agreement. This ensures Norwegian enterprises access to a market of more than 400 million people under the same conditions as enterprises from other countries. It's also through the EEA Agreement we get benefits, like the opportunity to study in other European countries or to surf the mobile when we're traveling, under the same conditions as at home. When the pandemic hit our country, it was because of our EEA connection that we were secured with infectious diseases equipment. The vaccines, which are the only common way out of the pandemic, were obtained through the EU. This has been brought to the attention of the Norwegian population, and we see a record high in the EEA agreement in surveys. Two out of three would have voted in favour of the EEA Agreement if there was a referendum today. Ironically, studies also show among the electoral majority of the Central Party and the SV of the EEA Agreement. We who want the strongest possible relationship with Europe must pay extra attention when the EU sceptics in the Central Party have taken over the government offices. In the government budget for next year, the government cuts in the appropriations for European political research. Cut at 1.1 million. It is not surprising, given the new government's Europe-creature, but equally regrettable at a time when Norway needs more knowledge and cohesion in our main neighbourhood. The Hurdal platform, which provides the political basis for the government, states that the EEA Agreement should remain firm, but there are also other formulations that require us to be on guard. The platform states that the government will: ‘perform an investigation to assess the experience of EEA cooperation over the last 10 years. In this context, the experience of neighbouring countries outside the EU with alternative agreements with the EU shall be explored, inter alia. This means in clear terms that the government will carry out a new investigation into the EEA Agreement by looking at the relationship that Switzerland has and what Britain has after Brexit. None of these countries have agreements we need to envy. Switzerland wants to bring together its innumerable agreements with the EU into one framework, but the negotiations are under way. The United Kingdom’s Brexit process has been exhilarating and is a source of continued disintegration among the population. What a Norwegian investigation is to achieve is an open and unanswered question. We're going to go into 2022 with still pandemic. The first task of the government for next year is to continue the fight against covid-19. Then it doesn't get away from Europe. So to the area of development: the Minister of Development has repeatedly stressed – as I read it – that food comes before education, but then it is cut in both. The pandemic is global. It will not be combated in Norway until it is brought down worldwide. We know that two challenges will arise from the pandemic, especially in poor countries. The first is an acute equality challenge. Many children and young people have been deprived of the opportunity to teach as a result of closures. This particularly affects girls and young women. Without education, they are often deprived of good prospects. Too many are waiting for marriage and impunity. It is incomprehensible that in this situation the government has decided to cut the appropriations for training in next year’s budget – 662 million. kr i minus. Where did they go? It's cut to other areas. The cut applies both in next year’s appropriations and to Norway’s multiannual commitments to the Global Partnership for Education, the Global Partnership for Education, the GPE – well 1.2 billion. kr for a 4-5 year period. This commitment has halved the government with a pen stroke, and the Socialist Left Party, which ensures the majority of the budget here at Stortinget, chose not to give priority to this theme as they promoted their demands. The second challenge facing the world as a result of the pandemic is food shortage and food uncertainty. One of the most important actors in ensuring just global access to food is the World Food Programme, the WFP. Few other actors have done more to combat hunger globally, ever since the WFP was founded by the 1961 UN General Assembly. The Nobel Peace Prize is politically independent. At the same time, it is worth recalling that the WFP received the price last year. The Nobel Committee stressed how the WFP is making an invaluable effort to combat hunger and mitigate food insecurity conflicts. The Fund also has unique access to several of the most vulnerable places in the world where hunger and food insecurity are greatest. It is therefore very positive that in 2021 the Solberg Government increased the core support of the WFP considerably. It is equally regrettable that the new government has proposed drastic cuts in this allocation. It's really about two cuts in a row. First, the government proposes to cut the allocation by 200 million. kr. This cut was not only maintained under the Socialist Left Party budget agreement, but supplemented by an additional 120 million. kr i k cut. This adds to several incomprehensible cut governments have jerked off to propose in next year's budget. The budget we are discussing today contains significant cuts in education and emergency aid. It puts Norway, as a long-term and credible partner in the field of development, at a disadvantage. 2022 starts hard, it's true for the whole world. Fortunately, there is a great deal of excitement about the important long lines of Norwegian foreign and development policy. But the changes that the government has so far made to propose, put Norway in an unfortunate light when it comes to our relationship with the world around us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e866	The spokesman for the Central Party has explained some of the broad issues of foreign and defence policy. I'm going to join them and I'm just going to comment on some pieces of the debate here today. In many ways, the debate shows that there is quite a broad consensus on important aspects of foreign policy, the seas if some parties try enough to use the debate today to dramatize minor changes in the budget. The right seems a little irritated — a little annoyed that a new government dares to do some other priorities than what the Right did. But this is the case with new governments – a change in priorities compared to previous governments. The large picture of both foreign policy and aid policy is clear. This also applies to the level of assistance, which is 1 pst. of GNI, and this is also the increase, which is 8.4 pst. from an ageing budget last year to this year. The dramatization of some of the minor changes being made on the aid side today may not be surprising, but it bears the imprint of some irritation that other parties choose to think a little bit differently than the Right thought. I think one actually has to figure that out. I often believe that these debates in the United Kingdom have been defence and EU debates. Today, there has been a great deal of aid debate. I think that is good, because I believe that there must always be an opening to discuss both the effectiveness of aid and the priorities of aid policy. A new government has then decided to prioritise more resources to combat hunger, to increase food security, to combat inequality and to reconcile climate policy and development policy. These are the government's priorities in the aid policy. In addition, the government is committed to increasing the resources available to help rapidly improve the situation of refugees and people displaced by crisis or conflict. It is also a clear priority, and that is what the so-called solidarity pot is all about. There's not really any eye-catching re-priorities at all. It's just that a new government also means new priorities. Sickly if we redispatch precisely to food and climate, Norway will continue to be one of the largest contributors to education aid. 3.4 B.C.E. kr annually is a solid contribution from the Norwegian side. I also want to mention that when one comes to the government, a few surprises about being in government are discovered. I notice that the spokesperson of the Christian People's Party says that priorities can be changed, but that one has to take care of some of the areas where one has taken leadership, for example. in the field of health. But then you also have to pay the bills that come with the leadership. Too much was the surprise to this government when it was about 2 billion. kr in unpaid ACT-A bills, the vaccine collaboration, where Norway has taken a leadership earlier this year. The budget here today is a good and balanced budget in both the field of foreign affairs, aid and defence. It shows some new and strategic priorities within the whole that lies there. In the field of defence, in particular, it strengthens the protection of the Home and the possibility of further stepping up investment in the various defence sectors and also to improve living conditions in the Defence. The centre party is also well pleased that petty cuts for the volunteers in the defense, among others. to the Voluntary Sniper Service, was turned back in the course of the work. Then I have to be allowed to spend a little minute on what the representative Schou came in with an attack on the Center Party attached to the EEA. Yes, it is true that this government has intended to actively use the space for action in the EEA Agreement. It's necessary. Foreign policy is a policy of interest. Foreign policy is about safeguarding national interests, and it must also apply to European policy. It cannot be that one is completely submissive to the EU and to European policy. There too we must take care of Norwegian interests. And then I just think it's a little funny that the Right is critical of an investigation into the EEA. I think it is alarming that the Right does not want any new knowledge about these conditions. It would have to be a good thing for all of us if we got more knowledge of both the EEA Agreement, of contract works that other countries have, and of European policy as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e885	As the rapporteur for the Svalbard budget, I would like to highlight the importance of ensuring Norwegian sovereignty at Svalbard. This is linked to the maintenance of Norwegian communities on the island group, and we need to further develop the Longyearbyen community and facilitate activities to this end. I want to draw attention to an incursion in the setting. An error has been detected in the Inst Recommendation of the Committee. 17 S for 2021-2022, on the Svalbard budget. This applies to item 2, Refunds, etc., under heading. 3005, janitors. In the Committee's recommendation, there are 3.3 million. kr. The appropriate amount of the item shall be SEK 3 million. kr. So for assistance: I have to say that the report that came from the National Audit Office last week should have made a far greater impression on the Minister of Assistance than I got the impression from the answers that came to me. Here, then, some of the funds in which Norway put considerable money into it have been passed. Only in 2020, Norway gave the World Bank 5.3 billion. NOK of our tax dollars. Several of the funds examined may not refer to ground results. There is a waste of administrative costs, there is a lack of follow-up of results, and there is no overall strategy for the fund portfolio. There is no trace of information on this to the Government's Storting, just a beautician in the last three budget proposals. I want to say that it's a scandal when it's the way the government tells it positive, but not the negative, and I hope the new government follows this up and makes sure to inform the Storting about what's fact. In the letter to the National Audit Office, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs admits that it is important to disseminate positive results and to a small extent lack of achievement. This is nothing new. In 2019, there was another national audit report that looked at another part of the assistance, which stated correctly that the information that Stortinget had received was directly misleading. Here's a culture that I expect is cleaned up. So over to those who work on the ground. I find it strange that the Council of State will not take more into account what Jens Mjaugedal, who has previously been a specialist in Somalia, says. He mentions it as the career in the ‘aid circus’. It was "Good, but wasted. Assistance not working». «What have we done? Nothing." He says it's an accepted fool's game. ‘I have not met anyone – neither local, central or international aid workers – who has faith in this.’ I read the statement instead, ‘What have we got?’ And more: «We have many well-paid jobs in the support industry. But it hasn't given rise, we haven't stopped the flow of refugees and we haven't stopped terror. It has not improved the conditions of the Somali people. The whole project is difficult to defend.’ Nevertheless, the Council of State stands and boasts of how wonderful results you have to point to. I think one should show a little greater humility in the use of taxpayers' money, and I also think it is incredible that all parties other than the Progress Party in this Chamber are dedicated to spending as much money as possible on assistance, 1 pst. of GNI. There is so much money that you can't follow it up, you can barely use it, and we see time and time again that it is revealed that this money does not go where they are going. I was going to say that the orchestra plays as the ship goes down, and it looks like the other games will continue. What I think is worst of all, is knowing that there are so many in Norwegian society who don't get the help they need. I've worked a lot with Kaftrio, the medicine for cystic fibrosis disease, people who don't breathe, who don't get this medicine because it's too expensive. But we can afford to waste billions of dollars on aid, as the National Audit Office also points out not to help. We can't afford to give a decent old age care, but we can afford to waste a lot of money on measures that don't help. I also notice that the embassies are not equipped to follow this up. They should be, but this priority is a real shame.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e909	Being with NATO allies and our Nordic neighbours is central to Norwegian security, especially when we see a new and more challenging threat picture internationally. The challenges range from climate change and resource management to digital threats and terrorism. We are also facing new security challenges in Europe and its neighbourhoods. These developments reinforce the need for cooperation. With large land and sea areas, Norway needs a strong and modern defence that can enforce Norwegian sovereignty, discharge our alliance obligations and contribute to stability in our neighbourhoods. The government has said that it will develop and deepen Nordic cooperation in a number of fields. Nordic and European countries are Norway’s main political and economic partners. The government has said that it will stand out clearly for the values of an open and cooperating Europe at a time when authoritarian forces, nationalism and xenophobia are on the rise. The right to exercise freedom of expression and to have free access to information is a fundamental human right. Freedom of expression is a prerequisite for individuals to gain new insight and to develop their own opinions. Freedom of expression is at the same time essential for a living democracy in which all citizens can freely share views and ideas and influence social development. An open dialogue that can break opinions against each other contributes to the development of democracy and the safeguarding of human rights in a diversity-based society. We also see developments in our own backyard, Europe, where freedom of expression and the press is under considerable pressure. In 2019, reporters without borders drew a dark picture. Journalists experience violence and threats, and Heads of State are involved in creating an enemy image that helps whip up hatred against the media. In countries such as Poland, Ukraine, Greece and Hungary, the situation is described as problematic. While freedom of the press is under attack, we also see a development in which human rights are put under pressure. In particular, we see a development in which women's rights to their own body and reproductive health are challenged. History shows that the world's women can never take their rights for granted. In 2020, abortion was legal in Argentina, and people took to the streets of Buenos Aires to celebrate this historic event, but only a few months later, Polish authorities tightened their legislation, which means a real ban with a few exceptions. Demonstrators took to the streets, and it ended in violent clashes. Norway’s involvement in foreign policy has been and will continue to be broad. I have pointed out two specific areas in which we see that we must follow closely, and we must raise our voice for those who cannot raise their own voice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e926	About a year ago, the Stortinget adopted the current long-term plan for the defence sector. It provides for an annual sustained strengthening of the defence economy by 2028, with an increase of about 8.7 billion. 2021 kroner until 2024. About half of the increase has been followed up by the budget for 2021 and the proposal for a 2022 budget. In its draft budget, the Solberg Government proposed to increase the defence budget nominally by about 4 billion. kr. With that proposal, the defence budget for 2022 will amount to 69 billion. kr. Nearly 2.2 billion. kr of the increase goes to investments and operations in the LTP escalation. The 2022 increase will include: go to investment in new submarines, new maritime patrol aircraft, upgrade of CV90 fighting and supporting vehicles, modernisation of combat-related ICT systems, upgrading of shield-class corvettes, transport armored vehicles and artillery location radar to the Army, military airspace surveillance, new coastguard vessel and a number of other material acquisitions, further to infrastructure measures, mainly at Porsangmoen to, among others. lay-offs and dwellings, as well as the Armed Forces' operating chapters. Exercise and training, especially with allies, will also have a significant focus in 2022. In March, the invitation exercise Cold Response 2022 will be conducted. The aim of the exercise is to ensure the ability to carry out, receive and integrate allied forces in the defence of Norway, as well as the exercise of total defence. Air defence continues its transition with renewal in many areas with the reception of new material. There is a great deal of activity in the construction of new infrastructure and in the preparation for the reception and operation of the new material, such as the launch of NATO fighter gear, QRA with F-35, from 1 January 2022. In sum, this will provide a strengthened and modern defence. The construction in Finnmark continues through the establishment of the new hunting company at Garnisonen in South Varanger. Furthermore, the construction of the Artillery Valley continues with the establishment of combat air protection and the phasing-in of new artillery sites and the construction and establishment of Porsang battalion at the Garrison in Porsanger. The government has proposed an increase in the defence budget of 59 million. kr, where 50 million. kr was earmarked for maintenance of the Defence Building Mass with priority at accommodation and work facilities – in addition 40 million. kr to Home Protection for the maintenance of the level of activity, including associated equipment and ammunition. The funds of the Home Security Agency shall be redispatched from available funds after the end of the operation in Afghanistan. Furthermore, the government also proposes to draw the Solberg Government’s proposal to change the geographical breakdown for four of the districts. We believe that these decisions must await the assessment of the Grand Duchy, among other things. Regional reform and police reform. We also propose to reverse the cut in the grant to the voluntary organisations of 15 million. kr, so that these organisations can continue and maintain their important activity. Some of the proposals contained in the government budget have been amended in the budgetary agreement with SV, but within an absolutely acceptable framework. The government will come back to the Stortinget in the annual budget proposals with concrete clarifications of our ambitions in the government platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e947	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e952	The Minister of Defence was clear in the procurement processes on what to acquire. That's very good. It was very wise there, and it comes from the previous government; you don't buy from one day to the next. What's my baby, and I've been working on in the defense industry for quite many years, is seeing acquisitions and industrial development in the context. An acquisition project can be seen as a cost for the acquisition of income by developing technology and increasing the number of jobs, and by becoming an advanced multi-use technology society – not least in District Norway, of which I know the Minister of Defence is concerned. But for some reason, air protection is not inside. I wonder – if, for example. would become a NATO requirement that the capitals are protected by air protection – whether the Minister of Defence will change his view and actually give priority to air protection, not least above the capital, which is perhaps the most important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e961	I can welcome the representative of Tybring-Gjedde's view that air protection will be a priority. It is one of the acquisitions to be made in the future. Cooperation with the Norwegian defence industry is also important; in fact, I agree with the representative. That doesn't mean it's possible to provide what the previous government has done over a few weeks. It is a long run to acquire air protection, not least long-range precision air protection, which is part of the acquisitions to be made. This will come in order – it is a priority. It's a priority acquisition also for this government to make sure that we have air protection. In the past, we have had a line change, or a word exchange, about where this air protection is to be located. It's another discussion, which I'm not going into today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e968	I ask the Minister for Defence to listen carefully to the following wording. It is stated by the representative of Fasteraune – from the same party – in Stortinget today: ‘strengthen the army’s ability to implement the adopted structure in the long-term plan’. This structure was criticized north and down by the Center Party when we negotiated. The ambitions were too low, and the Center Party marched out of the negotiating room. Does this mean that the Central Party has given up its own ambitions and aims to implement the long-term plan that the Central Party has been outside in the negotiations last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e975	I can assure the representative of Riveres that the government and the Central Party have not given up our ambitions for a strengthened national defence. We see evidence of this already in the budget that has been presented. We're strengthening Home Security, and we're saying we're going to increase the crew in the Guard by 1,000 during the period we're in. We acquire material, and we also prioritise defence in the north, which is evident in the Hurdal platform. So no, the ambition is definitely not given up, but it'll take time, so we've started by facilitating that, for example. shall be capable of increasing the workforce. We're making provision for a reinforced home protection system. We're also upgrading EBA to improve living conditions for both soldiers and employees in the Defense – a aftermath that we're taking with us from the previous government. The ambitions are not given up in any way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e982	The question was linked to the Army. Ambitions for the other Defense did not tell the representative Fasteraune – nor did I. On the basis of a question from me some time ago, the minister here in Stortinget announced that the Heimeverten should now only be increased by 5,000 soldiers in the area structure, compared to 8 000 as it was written in the Hurdals platform. Today, the territorial structure is made up of 37 000 soldiers and is to be increased to 45 000. So it came through a written question from me that you have reduced your own ambitions in a very short time – with 3,000 soldiers. Can the Minister lighten up the veil and explain what assessments were made on Hurdal when the country reached 8 000, and what assessments was made by the Minister when he entered the department and the country at 5 000? Is this a long-term warning of downgrading other expressed expectations?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e991	Now the Minister of Defence was not present when the talks in Hurdal were going on, but what is fact, and which I have also clarified earlier in this Chamber, is that the ambition is to get an increase from 40,000 to 45,000. There is a clarification of the wording of the Hurdal platform, and there is no change in ambition. During the discussions at Lake Hurdal, the intention, as I have been informed, was to increase from 40,000 to 45,000. It's clear, it's government's ambition, and it's going to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e997	This is a line at the invitation of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who did not want to answer my question. As I was inside, I had a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs in an earlier Question Time, and it was about the point of the Hurdal platform establishing common meeting places to discuss security policy challenges. As this point has created some wonder among our allies, I chose to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if she could specify which countries were to be included, and what would be on the agenda. The only almost concrete answer that came was, as I quoted the Minister for Foreign Affairs instead: ‘But what matters to me is the cooperation between the heads of defence to be predictable, whether it be exercises or other military activity in the north.’ So then I repeat the question I had to the Foreign Minister: what cooperation between the Heads of Defense and what Heads of Defence is this about?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1007	That is a very good and precise answer from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. An example of such an area, where we aim to strengthen cooperation with others, is what we do in NORDEFCO. Nordic cooperation, I believe, is very important, both what we have at political level and what the heads of defence have in between. It is an important cooperation that should and must be extended. Then we also have the connection between the FOH and the North Fleet, which is an important part of North detachment and cooperation with Russia. It is a strong wish of the government that we will give priority to rescheduling and cooperation with Russia in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1014	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1019	It is safe to say that the defence taken over by Minister of Defence Enoksen is in far better condition than the then Minister of Defence Ine Eriksen Soreide took over in 2013. We then faced a defense on the edge of a managed liquidation, there were obvious shortcomings, and the then chief of defence, Bruun-Hanssen, was clear that considerable sums had to be put on the table to avoid falling into such a situation. Step by step the defense is now built up, and the defence budget has increased by approx. 26 B.C.E. kr since 2013 – a real growth of approx. 30 pst. The fundamental thing had to be grasped: it was too little ammunition, it was too little spare parts, the emergency stock was running, and the defence we had had had to be put in place to carry a higher activity – and can now phase in large, new investments. The defence budget for 2022 is the sixth in the range of significant increases in appropriations. We now see that in terms of better reaction, better fighting power and greater endurance. But we are also facing a security policy situation where the requirements for clear time are also strengthened. There has been a good basis for further development of the defence, and we have come out of the unfortunate situation that, for example. The frigates are at port and parts are picked off to keep other frigates alive. It came as a result of an additional allocation in 2016. During the last 30 years, the Western world has been bombing its forecasts of developments both in Russia and in China. The belief in a liberal democracy, even a Russia that would become a member of NATO, failed. Now we see a Russia that challenges the security policy situation in Europe and engages in various deliberate attacks. The belief that trade and economic growth in China should lead to democracy has also failed. We see a China that rules and threatens neighbouring countries when they don't do what China wants, and that demands large areas in the South China Seas, across international law. This tells us that Norwegian security policy cannot be established after whether it blows cold or hot from the east. It's historical facts that must lie at the root, and it's the most likely and long-term scenario we see that has to be based on how we dimension our defense. Ever since World War II, Norway has had safety challenges that we have not been able to deal with on our own. That is why the supplementary agreement we are now concluding with the United States is so important in order to be prepared to accept allied support in crisis and war, if necessary, and to train together. So I noticed that the Aukust representative said that the people-to-people cooperation was the most important step in our Russia policy. People-to-people cooperation works well today. Now Russia has challenges with all its 14 border countries, but the challenges with Norway are certainly least. That is why it is so important that we stick to our Russia policy, which has been largely successful. It's a fact that Russia doesn't like to deal with organizations or associations, and we're going to be very alert to take a step further and bilateralise our own defence policy, even though perhaps you can be charmed by Lavrov taking the state plane and taking a turn around the Gardermo after he's been in the churches. He has probably also noticed that there has been a government change in Norway. It takes time to build up a defense – it is possible to build it down quickly. In 1989 we had 32 air - protection batteries in the Kingdom. In 2015, this was brought down to one battery. The Solberg government started a laborious construction of air protection, and here I will follow the minister closely. It was uplifting what the minister said in the change of line, that the government will follow up the investment in air protection, and that we are now going to look into what kind of air protection you need in the long term to cover the ballistic threats. I notice that the defense chief calls 2022 the cooperative year, and in it there is a real message, which he probably has also caught from this hall, that defence policy is about bringing together a defense so that it becomes as much as possible in totality. The spirit of the department and the belonging of weapons are important, but technological progress is increasing the integration of defence sectors into one another. It's important to keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1036	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1041	I became so eager in my first post to tell the Chamber that assistance does not work, that I was not allowed to talk about foreign policy for the rest. I would first like to say that no one is worthy of the establishment of a cold war between Russia and the West. Then no one must accept a fool's game against Ukraine. It can be a self - fulfilling prophecy. The intentions of Russia and the consequences of the United States must be clear from both sides, so you know what you're actually talking about. An armed conflict will have disastrous consequences for everyone involved and for the world economy. There'll be a collapse if that happens. We're not allowed to wear silk gloves. We are not interested in having a busy neighbor who feels that he has room for action to get along in the neighborhood. A main reason why Belarus is running its refugee game is precisely that they have support from Russia. China will strengthen itself further. The West has to cooperate with China, and Norway cannot be the most offensive country to criticise what China is doing. We don't deserve that, and the world doesn't deserve it. The West no longer has the power or cohesion to be a global police force. The United States is weakening, splitting and becoming more introverted, and the western hegemony is being reduced. Then we get the dream situation that the Bears of the Moxnes are after, namely a society without Western capitalism being dominated by the United States and others, and then we get the Moxnes community without having lifted a finger. But what does that mean for the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence? What does that mean for Norway? We have now negotiated a trade agreement with China. Without giving the Advance Party the view of such an agreement, it is so much to take into account after so many years of negotiation that this will be extremely demanding. It is important that the Storting is continuously updated on the progress of this. I haven't seen any updates from any ministers about where this is right now. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has said that we should put Norway's interests first. Then I must say that I was very surprised, because it is not a slogan for which the Workers' Party has been very familiar. It has been more international solidarity, etc., but that we should give priority to Norway first, we in the Progress Party are very pleased. Then, at the same time, we cannot bring threats and horrors to other countries. We put Norway first, and then you have to accept that other countries put their own countries first. Then we're not going to interfere with what other countries do. I want to add it, because integration in the EU is getting stronger. In fact, EU countries also have the right to self-determination. It has Norway as an EEA member – we have a right of self-determination. It also has Poland and Hungary, and it is not that Poland and Hungary can change their societies overnight. It didn't happen after the end of the Cold War either. It was not that those who were part of the Cold War, Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania or others, immediately became like the West. It takes some time, and then we also have to accept that Poland and Hungary are spending a little longer. We're going to take into account their historical heritage and not plan them and say that they're going to have a society just like us, right away.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1060	The northern regions are Norway's most important peace project, but if we are to succeed in ensuring peace and stability in the northern regions in the future, people must live here. All fine words, views and visions from the retired Solberg government are now to be replaced by practical policies. Success in foreign policy requires domestic policy instruments to deliver concrete results, but it is urgent. If we are to ensure a sustainable settlement in the north in the future, we are totally dependent on the fact that there will be a significant migration of young people who want to have children. This is a challenge for North Norway, and it is also a strategic challenge for Norway as a nation that border areas against Russia can be depopulated. But we can do something about it. The possibilities in the north are enormous: we have agriculture, energy, minerals, travel and industry, resources that the world needs, and then we have to start doing what is required. We need infrastructure in place, like the 420 kV line to Varangerbotn, and we need to repair roads and fishing ports. We need a large-scale commitment to knowledge and industry, which, in turn, can provide interesting jobs in the region. At the same time, we see that in its Arctic policy, the EU chooses to approach the northern regions in such a way that we who live there will be part of a museum exhibition. In the EU Commission’s Arctic Communication, the Commission enters the Arctic to leave oil and gas on the ground. With all due respect to reporting: such interference with other countries’ resource policies and management is not only problematic; it could also lead to the Nordic regions becoming considered an old-age home in the future. I grew up in the northern regions. In the north, we meet the world, and over the centuries, we've been involved in extensive people-to-people cooperation with our neighbours in the east. The link between foreign policy and our relationship with Russia and domestic policy – with the development of infrastructure and industrial policy – has never been more precarious and required than now. Peace and stability do not come of themselves. Peaceful development requires activity and presence. Now the job starts building up in the north. The centralisation of the last few years shall be reversed. Investing in the north pays off for Norway and the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1073	It is good that Stortinget has a good discussion about the use of Norwegian money outside our country. Through the EEA funds, Norway supports civil society development and has contributed to positive development in many places. That's good. Nevertheless, there is a trend in some EU countries where there is reason to follow closely. The EEA/EFTA Joint Committee was recently on a trip to Poland and their report shows that the visit confirmed and further reinforced the impression of a very worrying legal development in Poland. They present in their report a negative trend in the rule of law, the media and the situation of minorities. I am deeply concerned about the emergence of discriminatory and anti-democratic flows in several countries of old Eastern Europe. This is happening in our own backyard. We are witnessing systematic persecution of homosexuals in several of our neighbouring countries. Poland, according to the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, is the worst country in Europe for LHBT people. The study ‘A long way to go for LGBTI equality’ is the largest in its impact that has ever been carried out and shows that very many skews experience a restriction of their rights. The study ‘A long way to go for LGBTI equality’ was published in May of this year, and in Poland two out of three respondents replied that the situation has become much worse for the skeptical population. They promote the creation of 30 so-called LHBT-free zones in the country and attacks on prawns. I am pleased that the European Parliament condemned this. Countries in Europe that violate human rights should not receive any financial support from the EU or the EEA. But we can't just look at Poland. New surveys show that a wide range of European countries have increased cases of violence against the LHBT population. Political leaders are using force to secure power, and religious leaders have turned homophilis into a battle cause. ‘To clean our blood, if there are any gay people here, take them,’ said Chetsjenia’s President Ramzan Kadyrov in an interview with US HBO in 2017. He would hardly have said it if it did not fall into good soil at home. Hets against homofiles unfortunately seems to be a sure winner if you want to achieve the tribute of the people. In countries like Turkey, Russia, Uganda and Indonesia, religious forces are an important cause of the setbacks we see. The religious groups are behind demonstrations, they spread misinformation, and they often have a strong influence on the country's political leadership. Through the EEA funds, Norway is an important source of support for LHBT organisations in 15 countries in Europe. We have to keep doing that, because this is about short and good that we have to stand up for the right to be ourselves, to love and to express ourselves – always, in any case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1090	Last year we noticed that it was 75 years since the nuclear bombs were released over Hiroshima and Nagasaki. It is, as we know, the first and so far the only time nuclear weapons have been used in war. Despite the fact that 76 years have passed, nuclear weapons are not something we are just reading about today in the history books at school. On the contrary, it is a weapon that has evolved to be one of the greatest security threats we have in our time. With the increased tensions in the world and the increased danger of using nuclear weapons, it scares me that the abandoned Solberg government had such a passive relationship with the disarmament work. Fortunately, the new government is now showing a completely different initiative and strength in the important work that needs to be done. It was just supposed to be missing, because looking back, it's just the Workers' Party that has gone into the gap for the international disarmament work. This happened when Gerhardsen banned nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil, as happened when Støre took the initiative to ban the class weapon, and not least when the same man started the humanitarian initiative, which the bourgeois government totally abdicated from following when they took over power in 2013. It took no longer than a mere two months in the government offices until we are once again in the process of making a difference. As the first NATO country, Norway is now to participate as an observer at the State Party meetings of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. Our attitude is that it is fully possible to be a loyal NATO member and at the same time act as a bridge builder and a driver for disarmament. We have a different approach to one of the greatest security threats and issues of our time than the Right has, precisely because we're betting on dialogue and presence in forums where these issues are discussed. It is useful to go ahead, because it did not take long for the German government to report its arrival and join Norway as an observer at the State Party meetings, which is a pleasure to all the hearts involved in the disarmament work. In the Workers' Party, we are extremely aware of the important work being done by civil society organisations in the fight against nuclear weapons and disarmament. They gather and disseminate information and help increase knowledge of nuclear weapons worldwide. Not least, they constantly push us politicians to make the right choices. We see the value of the work done, and that's why the Workers' Party and the Centre, together with SV in our budget, triple the pot to a grant scheme for disarmament, non-proliferation and nuclear security from 5 million. NOK 15 million. kr. This government prioritises time, money and attention to disarmament and shows that Norway again wants to be an important player in disarmament in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1103	The northern regions are Norway's main strategic area of interest. There's a lot of people that have understood for a long time, and more people are starting to realize it. The last time the Workers' Party put in government, we, with then Secretary of State Jonas Gahr, made a big effort and an important boost to Northern Region policy. It's high time we revitalized this work. In the northern regions, Norway is meeting large nations with strong interests that are only going to grow in the future. The possibilities and values of the area are many, and this also creates tension and potential conflicts. Norway has a strong and good tradition of dialogue and long-term cooperation with our neighbouring countries in the north. This has contributed to security and stability. In a world where the geopolitical situation is unstable, we need more calmness and wisdom, and Norway has an important voice and role to play in the future. The most important resources we have in the north are knowledge and people. Only by betting on them can we take advantage of all the possibilities that are in the northern regions. Nord universitet and Norway's Arctic University in Tromsø will be a driving force in our Northern Region policy in the years to come. They will lead research in fields that create values in the north, they will need to educate and respond to the skills needs of both the public and the private, and they will have to lead to understanding the region and areas of the north. It is the seas, which are so rich in resources, climate change, that are first and hardest noticed here, and generally good resource management. Our ability to bet now will be crucial for what the future will look like in the north. We have population decline, we have a lack of competence, and we have climate challenges that require action. Only through targeted policies that create the jobs, build up the knowledge environments, and ensure cooperation in the northern regions, will we be able to take the role we need and provide the long-term answers. The government of the day has understood this. They're on the right track, and it's important not only for us who live in the north, but for all of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1114	I am running a little bit back to earlier in the debate and will repeat what I said in my introduction. It is that the government, our government, is proposing an aid budget of gross 1 pst. So it's 41.1 billion. kr, and there's an increase of 3 billion. kr, or 8 pst., compared to the 2021 balance. I think it's very important that you be aware of that. In addition, there are some changes. Some people characterize it as small, some as much, but it's relative to a direction you've pointed out. It's clear that when we set aside 500 million. kr more for hunger and food safety, there is a direction, and that is a desired direction. Yeah, you're right to reduce by 750 million. kr in relation to the budget submitted by the Solberg Government, but that budget has never been realised. So there's no money in circulation. It's money that's been put into a budget. When you accuse the government of giving priority to a heavy cut even if you have had little time to present the budget, I disagree with that, because that is not what has been done. This is budget money. Finally, I want to say that when you go in and you're clear about what's going on on refugees, and when you increase sharply, to almost 2 billion. kr, this solidarity item, it provides flexibility in an uncertain world, which is very important to obtain. I would say that what is presented by money in terms of development shows a direction that has been chosen. It is also the case that when the Minister came to a new meeting, there were a number of documents that were forgotten, on which she had to make decisions, and which would mean that the budgets were not committed several years in advance. Otherwise, I also thought of commenting on what Haarek Riveres was about. What I said was that the adopted structure of the Army is what you're going to work on when it comes to this budget. But, as the minister has said, we're using extra funds – both 40 million. NOK 38 million and not less. SEK to cashiers in the Defence – in order to increase the ability to get new personnel in place more quickly or to increase staffing. That's what was my message in the main post.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1126	Svalbard is an important part of the government's north-eastern policy, and the government wants to further develop the svalbard policy in a way that ensures Norwegian interests, Norwegian settlement and sustainable development. In the draft budget for 2022, the framework for Svalbard is 640 million. kr. It includes both the grant proposed in Prop. 1 S for 2021-2022, and an increase from the new government, as we have proposed in the additional number. 2021 has followed 2020 as a different year on Svalbard – as on the mainland. The outbreak of the virus and the subsequent infection prevention measures continue to have a significant impact on the population and establishments of Svalbard. Longyearbyen is a small community, and societal critical functions are distributed to relatively few people. A major outbreak of Svalbard could create a very challenging situation, and the government has therefore decided that the vaccination of the Svalbard population at a third dose should be carried out in order to reduce the vulnerability to a major outbreak as much as possible. There is a broad consensus that Longyearbyen will continue to be a Norwegian family community. An overall committee underlines in its opinion that it is important that the government continues its efforts to ensure that Longyearbyen is a viable Norwegian community and administrative centre, in line with the objective of keeping Norwegian communities on the island group. Then the government is concerned that there should be a safe place to live. People and property in Longyearbyen must be secured against both snowmobiles and south-facing. Therefore, the area under the mountain is secured by the sugar peak. The work started in 2019 and was expected to be completed in 2022. It's a total of 165 million. kr for the purpose. The new government has been busy getting on with the tailoring work because there is still a significant risk of accidents elsewhere in Longyearbyen. We therefore proposed in the additional number to allocate a total of 75 million. kr to protective measures against the southern side of the Waterline Valley. Until such time as these measures are completed, the key measures are alerting and evacuating the local population. In February of this year, the Ministry of Justice and Security signed a joint operation agreement between the new rescue helicopter service base in Tromsø and the helicopter service of the Sysselmmaster. In 2022, the supplier shall be replaced. A joint supplier will provide synergies in terms of higher quality, more robustness and better availability. There has been broad political agreement on the objectives of the swallowing policy, and we want to continue them. What is important to ensure a Norwegian settlement is to listen to the community. Therefore, the government has also recently postponed the consultation period to new field safety regulations and new environmental legislation, at the request of the local population.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1141	Rarely has the need for international cooperation and solidarity been greater than now, in a global pandemic. Martin Tranmæl said that one should have planted legs on Norwegian soil, but at the same time have looked outwards. It's a look that this government has. Norway has long been a driving force for international cooperation and will continue to do so now. Our most important tool to combat this pandemic is vaccine. In Norway, we have a high level of confidence and a high level of vaccination. These things are connected. We have an open society, actions are based on facts and up-to-date knowledge from health authorities, and it's democratic debate, control and governance. We have good finances, and the community is taken care of even when it's on. We agree to put in place the necessary powerful measures, including to take care of jobs and businesses and our common health system. At the same time, we see that what we're doing here at home is much less valuable if we don't succeed out. There will be new mutants that will have great consequences. South Africa is rightly praised for quickly discovering and notifying the world of the omicron variant. It shows us how important it is with international cooperation, where we share experiences, because the pandemic is a global problem that leads to major national consequences, but the solutions are international. The availability of medicinal products, in particular vaccines and medical devices, is different, with far less access to vaccines in poor countries than in rich countries. Improving the responses has perhaps been one of the most controversial challenges of the pandemic. Here Norway has a particularly important contribution, together with South Africa, to lead the ACT-A, where it is mobilised to contribute. That is very important for us to succeed. All countries need to make a take-off, and the government of Solberg took an active step to lead in this and has made important contributions also financially. Therefore, it was a little special that there was no funding for this in the budget that was presented in the autumn. I'm very happy that this government in the supplementary number added 2 billion. important crowns that will affect vaccination and treatment in the rest of the world. Norway is also going to share the vaccine doses we do not need, and the government is going in the rush to obtain exemptions from patents for the covid vaccine, which are incredibly important for the production of vaccines. A health crisis has become a social inequality crisis and an economic crisis. Here our government will continue to contribute to community and solidarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1156	I notice that SV both states and writes that we should strengthen our national defence, there should be a balance between the defence sectors, we should have a defence policy independent of NATO, and at least independent of the United States. Then I have to ask SV – now I see the SV's representative has left the room, but I hope the representative will come up with a call – and my question is: What should this SV defense really look like, if this SV defense is to be able to replace the security guarantee we have through NATO, primarily from the United States, and the security guarantee that is in our NATO membership? After all, we need to take realities inward and see the enormous imbalance between the forces on the Norwegian side and Russia, which is the dimension of Norwegian security policy, as many have said in the debate today. Then SV has to give up an answer, and if SV cannot come up with an answer, this is naive and irresponsible security policy. The Nordic regions have become more strategically important. From being a low-voltage area, there is now much greater interest, both military and economic, in this area. Norway has a sovereign right to follow what is happening in our neighbourhoods, and to assert our sovereignty. It has been raised beyond any doubt that the new Russian silent submarines pose a significant threat to both Norway and the whole of the West if they manage to get to the depths of the Atlantic without being discovered. The NH90 helicopters were intended to play a role in submarine hunting and tracking helicopters. They were also intended to play a role for the Coast Guard, to improve the Coast Guard's operating radius, to say so. Now winter and spring have passed before the NH90 helicopters have arrived, and most are not in such an operational state as it was supposed to be for many years. Then my second recommendation to the Minister of Defence comes from today's pulpit. I didn't get it in my previous post, but the Minister of Defense will know that this room – and I think I'm speaking on behalf of quite a few parties – is going to follow with great interest what's going on with the NH90. I notice that some contracts have now been signed with both foreign and Norwegian industry to try to get more out of these helicopters. I would recommend the Minister at an appropriate time and in an appropriate forum to inform him of the situation related to the NH90. We are in a community of interests in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1175	Much of what Norway will live on and get income from in the future can be found in the north. At the same time it is in the north that Norway meets the rest of the world, and it is still Norway’s main strategic focus. It is also our most important peace project. The Arctic is a geopolitical centre of gravity for both resource, climate and military strategic reasons. We see an increase in activity and a change in the security policy situation giving rise to new needs. At the same time, this also provides new opportunities for Norway, and not least it provides a need to safeguard our own interests and take responsibility for the sustainable management of our industries, which is becoming increasingly important to the Norwegian economy. But the northern areas are also the people. A new, strong focus on north-eastern policy therefore also involves measures that are significant to the everyday lives of ordinary people. Norway differs from other countries. We're the ones that have the largest population north of the Polar Circle, and this is something we have to take care of. Nevertheless, despite economic growth, there has been a significant decline in the population in the north. This is a challenge for many reasons, mainly because our security and sovereignty are closely linked to population development in the region. We have no human presence either. In order for us to have activity, use the resources and have credibility with our neighbours, people must live in northern Norway and in Svalbard. The Northern Region policy of the Government illustrates well how foreign and domestic policies meet. When we say that the negative population development in the north should be reversed, it's both district policy and security policy, all the time we know who our neighbours are, and spend time controlling our areas in the north. Therefore, there has been a need for a new impetus in the Northern Region policy, which has greater ambitions, which are closer to people, and which will create growth and actively invest in a greener future. There's the Hurdal platform clearly. In a time of more tension and military activity, one of the government's answers is increased dialogue and cooperation. That's why we need to strengthen people-to-people cooperation and talk to the neighbor, even if we don't agree with everything. The most central element of the Northern Region policy will be the maintenance of dialogue with the East Neighborhood and the promotion of new measures to maintain the North as a low-voltage area. It would be building knowledge, creating new jobs from our resources and helping to resolve the climate crisis. If we succeed in this, we will strengthen the northern region of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1190	Thank you for a good debate. There have been mainly two themes. One has been the north, and when you hear the speeches in the debate here, there is no doubt that there are far greater ambitions for the new government. The chairperson of the Committee tried to make a point that there was a slight decrease in the allocation to the north. It's because, as she probably knows, it's the pandemic and it's going to be less activity. She should at least know it when in her own budget she cut more for last year than the small contraction that came into the agreement with SV. The second part has been about development policy. There's been a lot of civilisation. Left has spent all his time talking about an office in Oslo. The whole development and foreign debate to the Left was about the creation of a single office here in Oslo. The leader of the Progress Party felt that aid is something Norway is putting out on a continuous basis. Right-hand tries to hang up on some re-priorities and call it the big cut for help. It's strange, all the time spent 3 billion. kr more on assistance in 2022, with Jonas Gahr Støre as Prime Minister, than it did in 2021, with Erna Solberg. It becomes extra strange when the Right is the only party, together with the Advance Party, who has gone to the elections to make large relief shots. The right had this for debate at its national meeting, and the Right Programme ended up being opponents of the one percent target, as the only party in addition to the Progress Party. I think it is good that today's debate has been primarily about priorities and what should be the content of development policy, because basically development policy is about policy. It is about bringing about political changes in the north and in the south. The rainforest initiative is an example of where the money has been important, but the most important thing has been how to get into political processes. It's a similar way that the new government wants to work, in several other areas, for example. in climate-friendly agriculture and renewable energy, where we receive a doubling of the funds. There has been talk of poor projects being used as evidence of assistance. Well, a bad project is an argument against a bad project. This is not an argument against assistance in general. I would warn against saying that there should be no risk in aid policy, because it is about bringing about changes on the ground in the most vulnerable areas of the world, it is obvious that there is a risk. For us, it's not an option not to contribute to those who need it the most. Then, in several articles, there has been talk of education. I don't think there's one person in this room, at least not in the government parties, who disagrees with the fact that education is very important. It is absolutely vital for development. This is precisely why we are pleased that Norway remains a main donor to education policy. But that is not the main priority of this government. We're saying we're going to spend the money in other areas where they're needed even more. We know, for example. that funding for women's right to abortion is more difficult than education, so it is a priority of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1203	I would also like to thank you for a good debate. There has been both political agreement and disagreement, which should and should be heard in a budget debate. Of course, today's opposition parties must also show their disagreement with the priorities of the government, especially what deviates from the budget that our government has provided. It also did today's government parties when they were in opposition, and it's part of the political discussion. The aid budget could have been $3.7 billion. If you had followed what was in the Solberg Government's budget proposal. There have been some priorities made by the government that is now sitting. Of course, they are free to do so, but they cannot avoid the discussion of what priorities they have done. I think you have to be honest about those priorities. It is not possible to reduce the appropriations allocated to the Global Partnership for Education by 662 million. NOK 2022 and at the same time claim that there will be no less money for education, because that will be the case. As Åsmund Aukrust rightly says at the end, the government has made other priorities. It's an honest thing, but then you can't pretend that both things are happening at the same time, because it's clear it means that the funds for education are being reduced. It's clear it means something to children who don't get education, and it's clear it means something to girls who are at risk of getting married, because the school gives them protection from more than just weather and wind. I would also just like to add a few comments to the question of disarmament, which was also a major priority for the Solberg government, especially related to verification, where we led a UN work, and irreversibleity, which is now beginning. We all agree on the goal of a world without nuclear weapons; the question is just what is the most effective and right way there. The size has agreed that disarmament must be verifiable, irreversible, balanced and reciprocal. Today, many of the nuclear powers are rusting up, and that is precisely why disarmament is so important within a responsible framework. A fundamental political problem with the Federal Treaty is that a legally binding instrument is attempted to be set up without the presence of nuclear weapons, and that is the very opposite of what was done with the Chemical Convention, the Class Arms Convention and the Biological Arms Convention, where the very countries that had these weapons were the leaders. Keeping them outside is a problem. The second is that the verification mechanisms are weak. When Germany has signaled that they also consider participating in the meeting of the State Parties, they start at the opposite end of the Norwegian government by saying that this will only come after consultations with close allies. I wish today's government had done that too, because it might help to remove some of the turmoil created by the government's security policy line.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1220	I heard the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee say that the government's line of organizing our security cooperation in the north has led to wonder among our allies. This is a serious claim. Neither the Minister of Defense nor I have received any wonder from any of our allies. We have received a message of wonder from one person, and it is from the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Norway is NATO in the north, and there is great satisfaction with the Norwegian line, which is based on both deterrence and tranquillity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1225	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1254	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the allocated speaking time in the debate will be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes, and the President will organise the debate as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Advance Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Red 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Environmental Party Green 5 minutes and Christian People's Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines will be given with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1263	As the rapporteur, I would just like to refer to the vote and assume that the majority, at the time of the government parties and the SV, will argue for their and therefore the majority's priorities in today's proceedings. I would like to say a little bit about the options of the Advance Party. The state budget for 2022 makes it very clear that the Progress Party is the party most clearly among all the promises made by the justice sector. We're doing that by strengthening our jurisdictions by 42 million. kr, increase criminal custody by 35 million. kr, and not least by strengthening the police in our alternative budget for 2022. It's about increased presence and more patrols out there among the people most to provide security in the neighbourhoods and across the country. We'll increase that by 350 million. kr. We also do what the government parties don't do: Cuts in the Police Directorate. So let's do that very hard. We turn from police bureaucracy to police security out there. We – and this is important for me to stress – clearly prioritise a matter that often goes into the forgotten book when you are not in the middle of the situation. It's about the National Emergency Centre of the Police. It is about the police resources that must be present on the day of the worst — terrorist acts, but also other events on Norwegian soil that require efforts from national response resources. I am not sure that the National Emergency Response Centre will be given sufficient priority. It was a fight for the previous government, when the Progress Party was part of that government, to get the National Emergency Centre of the Police in Taraldrud implemented and built. It was an important matter that was delivered in time, price and diet, which means that we are now much better equipped to handle events on Norwegian soil. But it also requires that the money be allocated on an ongoing basis to ensure that we have 24-7, 365 days a year in terms of the police's ability to provide these resources. Then it must be 24-hour continuous. I don't feel sure that in the justice line you have today, through the State Council and Justice and Emergency Department of the Police Directorate, the police chief of Oslo and then all the way down to the National Emergency Centre, you control the use of money. I'm afraid you choose not to prioritize these resources. In that case, it is very unfortunate. That is why the Progress Party is proposing 70 million. extra kr to make sure we have these response resources available 24-7. We also strengthen the police in putting in place the measures necessary to deal with juvenile and recriminalism. There is no doubt that neither the Oslo Police Commissioner, the Police Directorate, nor the Ministry of Justice and Defence have given sufficient priority to resource use in this area. This is about an ever-present police force that creates security in the streets, which is present where people move, and where people know about insecurity. That's how you create a safe city in Oslo, our capital, by having more policemen out there. Priority is not sufficient. The Progress Party proposes this, but we also want to give priority to other areas, outside Oslo. We see that this is also developing elsewhere around us. What is sad is that when the government presents some kind of gang-wreck package, you choose to draw out, as one of the points, a system of police control receipts. It's a direct gift package for the people in the capital. We also prioritise something that the other parties don't do, to fund the Human Rights Service. We're proposing to give them 3 million. kr in State aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1282	For too long, victims of crime have been in unworthy queues to get their cases processed, while criminals have been penalized. Accumulations in the criminal chain and bottlenecks either in the courts, prosecution authorities, the police or in prison have all led to this. When the government submits its proposal to the government budget, we see that the trend is turning around. Finally, for the first time in several years, there is a balance between the efforts of the judicial budget. The criminal case chain will be seen in the context. This is the way to go to avoid bottlenecks and unfortunate accumulations, which eventually go out on ordinary people. The government strengthens the prosecution authority and thus paves the way for resolving the ongoing crisis. In recent years, we have seen several examples of assault cases involving a known perpetrator with low capacity reasons. This is not our legal state worthy. That is why I am pleased that the government is addressing this serious problem and is helping to increase the capacity and quality of the prosecution authority. Now the government is adding up to a strengthened near-police, which will be in line with the intentions of the Workers' Party and the Center Party had for the near-police reform. We'll strengthen the police by 200 million. kr more than the Solberg government budget. With this, we will strengthen basic manning, strengthen dialogue with the municipalities and facilitate the presence of a visible and accessible police force. In addition, I am pleased to note that this year, for the first time in many years, criminal services are not left with cuts after the state budget has been presented. The government is strengthening criminal custody by 50 million. NOK for the next year, which in 2023 is 100. This shall be used to strengthen the essential basic manning in the first line. This is the very criterion of success when we want to return to Norwegian criminal justice. I hope that people – out in prison and in their care – now see that there is finally light at the end of the tunnel. It will take time, but the repatriation has begun. Whole and regular posts and increased basic staffing are one of the most important things we can address in the justice sector, after years of ABE cut. Some competent people at work are the success criteria for us to have a criminal code, a police force and a court that doesn't violate human rights. Prisoners shall not be subjected to illegal isolation. The content and important rehabilitation processes must now be put back at the centre. So, for example, this is going to be the case. Criminal services could deliver on their community mission — knowing that one day most of the convicted people will return and become neighbors. So a few words about the legal aid measures: there's a big difference between being right and getting right, and this injustice we're dealing with, and the legal aid rate is being increased in this budget, free legal aid is being strengthened, and children's special protection is being strengthened. People who go to work every day for your safety and security, as they do in the justice sector, must be given time and confidence to do the job. The police must have time to explain why they stopped on the street. The prison officer has to report on what matters, not just for the sake of the report, and then we have to count it as counting. We trust our good people in the first line and hope that with this budget we help to give them more time to do the job on behalf of all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1301	The government of Solberg carried out one of the largest reforms of the Norwegian police ever. The police reform is largely very successful and has raised Norwegian police preparedness to a historically good level, and the reform has provided the country with a better quality police force, which has also increased by several thousand years. The quality of the investigation has been increased, the preparedness for terrorism and other types of serious incidents has been greatly improved and national response times have been introduced. Police are divided into larger police districts to offer a more equal service and to build larger trade unions. In recent years, police investigation environments have been given a strong technological boost so that the police can carry out far more tasks and police work than before from the patrol car, among people and at the scene. The police have introduced new cars and new equipment to do this effectively. That's why it's a little sad that it's one of the most concrete things on the Hurdal platform, is to set up 20 new police stations. For the Right, the most important thing is that the police should be where crime takes place, reinforced care for the victims, and prevent radicalisation and extremism. The government indicates that they want a police force for yesterday’s crime scene, not the challenges of the future. The main effort is to shift the resources of the police to maintain more police offices rather than equip the police to deal with a modern crime scene. This is a reversal of the current policy that the police do not even want. The police’s ability to detect and investigate child abuse online has been greatly improved. This is due, inter alia, to: the establishment of larger and better equipped professional environments both in the police districts and through the establishment of the National Cybercrime Centre, NC3, at Kripos. There is a strong commitment to digitally arming the police to meet this. Unfortunately, sexual offences are one of the most increasing areas of law enforcement, particularly child offences. Intervention networks often extend across borders, making it difficult to detect and investigate. That's exactly why this cybercrime bet is so important. The number of victims of reported sexual offences under the age of 20 increased by 60 pst. from 2010 to 2019. Therefore, the government of Solberg promoted an action plan against violence in close relations and an action plan against rape. Both of these plans contain very important measures to prevent and combat violence and abuse, and we expect the new government to follow up on the good work that has been done in recent years. I would like to commend our new Minister of Justice – praise that she is in charge of her field, and commend that she always answers the questions we ask. But we're not always satisfied with the answers we get. The Justice Department has added more funds after the state budget was presented in October, but I think it is necessary to remember that the goal is not always to spend the most money, it is to spend the best possible amount of money. I am not sure that this is always the case in terms of both police reform and judicial reform and the reversal of some of those measures. I note that the government is actively working precisely to reverse the court reform, as several of the colleagues say they should, and the Minister of Justice has guaranteed to be implemented. Yes, they even say that the courts exist for the people. Yeah, who else are the courts for? It's because of the people and the people's rule, democracy, that we have courts, so it's a strange approach. After all, the judicial reform was implemented to strengthen the courts and increase legal certainty, especially for our children. We have obligations that elected the people to ensure that we have the best courts in the whole country, and that's exactly what the court reform was all about. That is why we believe it must stand. But in this I want to signal that we are going to work constructively, we are going to point to our solutions, we are going to challenge where we are going, and we are going to support the government where we agree. I look forward to further cooperation into a new year, which has probably got a darker start than we would like.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1322	The State shall ensure the security of individuals, society and the country and the security of its inhabitants. It's for the Center Party about how we organize everyday life in society, how we secure countries and people. That is why I am pleased that we have a Workers' Party-Center Party administration and a political platform where we are just committed to ensuring security, good legal certainty and accessible services for citizens across the country. Good preparedness is always locally anchored. Resources to deal with crime, crises, serious incidents and preventative activities must actually be available throughout the country. Uncertainty about this creates uncertainty and insecurity for individuals, for communities, and in the worst cases for the whole country. Therefore, it is now good that after a government that led a policy that meant more police in the office, longer distance between people and police many places, where centralization of people and money seemed to be the only answer, we now have a new course. One important step for the Central Party and the new government is an offensive police budget for the whole country with an increase of 200 million. kr in the State budget for 2022. I'm going to use a concrete example from my own municipality of residence, as set out in the VG in April of this year, which highlights just the importance of strengthening the presence of the police throughout the country. In the VG case, the fire service in Salangen describes a daily life in which direct fire-related calls have fallen in recent years, while total calls have increased. The answer is, unfortunately, that the police are not there. Then the fire department is called out, is first on site and feels to be the deputy of the police. The fire department itself estimates that it will usually take one to two hours before the police arrive – in this example. Without demeanor for highly skilled and dedicated policemen: this should not be the case. It's about centralising resources over the last few years, it's about organizing, and it's about how we actually choose to build locally anchored preparedness. All of this, of course, also results in increased costs for municipalities, in terms of more overtime, which document reality. One of the fasitators of the previous government is that a well over 100 loner offices were closed in an eagerness to centralize the police — and 42 courts in the same centralisation centre. The Central Party and the Workers' Party have pointed out a clear direction for the country's police, where all citizens are entitled to equal preparedness and should be able to feel safe in their everyday lives. There will be more policemen in the streets and more visible police closer to people, no matter where you live. That is why it is good that, through the budgetary agreement, we agree on the involvement of police and prosecution authorities, which facilitate increased presence and strengthen the content of the police in the years to come. The justice sector has been treated in a vote during the previous government. Despite that, the former government parties have tried to create the impression that everything is in the best order. But after the last government eight years, unfortunately, the situation is not like this. After the Right Party and the Advance Party in the Government, among others: less locally present with a weakening of preventive work and poorer police preparedness a reality of several places. The population of the smallest municipalities feels less secure. The 2018 Storting Decision that all remaining posts should be strengthened was not followed up by the previous government. Trustees, employees and municipalities throughout the country actually reported that the police service offer had become worse during the previous government. The challenge is crystal clear: there is a need to strengthen the police, prosecution authorities and the entire criminal chain. Not least: when in many places in the country one of the main challenges after the previous government was that state emergency services were removed from the community and the municipal fire services were left as well as near-police, then a new direction is needed. To illustrate it with a Twitter message from Trom's police district as late as September 26th this year: «Communication of fire in a car on Kistefossbrua, fv 851. The two in the car have come out. The fire department is on its way. The road is blocked by people on site. The nearest police patrol is too far away to make any sense, so we won't come." This was reproduced in the Troms Folkeblad. If we are to achieve the goals set by the government, it is important that we continue the efforts that are now in the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1344	A society with small economic differences and great opportunities is a good society to live in. Then we have to make sure that in all areas of society people have the same opportunities, regardless of background. A Bauta in the legal environment, Jan Fridthjof Bernt, said a few years ago that the prosecution and legal apparatus are the social arenas where the inequality is greatest in our country. It is a statement that was so well illustrated through the Nav scandal – and a statement that unfortunately is just as true today, and that too many people feel on the body every single day. We create a safe society by equalising economic and social differences in the justice sector and working to ensure equal opportunities in the justice system for people who experience injustice or become victims of crime. The rule of law shall protect and help all, regardless of people’s financial resources. In the SV's alternative state budget, we show how we can achieve a strong lifting of the free legal aid system that would ensure that nearly 25 pst. the population would come within the scheme. In addition, we are significantly increasing the pay for aid and defence lawyers, and not least we are giving the special legal aid measures a big boost. We in SV show in our budget how we can strengthen the courts and criminal services, which have been weakened by years of ABE cut under the blue. It is a major problem that crimes that mainly affect women and children are not given high priority today. Too few rape and assault cases are solved by the police, and we need a change of pace in the investigation of such cases through earmarked funds to the police throughout the country. The most important thing we can do is to prevent abuse from happening initially. This is why it is important to increase efforts to prevent through enhanced sexual education, through an up-to-date law setting up a law of consent, earmarked resources in the police and strengthening crisis centres. In our alternative state budget, we show how this can be done. All in all, I have to say that our alternative state budget is fairly solid. Even if we don't get a majority of SV's budget, we get a majority for a new direction in justice policy after eight blue years. For the first time since 2009, the income limit for free legal aid has been increased and significantly increased. With 100 million. We take again the aftermath that has happened every year since 2009. In addition, we extend the system to children affected by expulsion cases. It has been important for SV to point out that this scheme should be extended to new fields. That's why it's important that we also get a new law, a new law on legal aid, and it's going to the Stortinget in the spring of 2023. Instead of cutting the appropriations for the special legal aid measures, which the right-hand side did on the way out of the government offices, we're increasing the pot by 10 million. kr. In addition, we get a test project with a receipt system for people who are stopped on the street. I notice that the Progress Party is already sceptical about this scheme, but this is an important mechanism to strengthen confidence in the police and prevent ethnic profiling in Norway. Even Erna Solberg, the former Prime Minister from the Right, agreed that this is happening in Norway, and something we have to work against. A receipt scheme is an important step on that path. We'll start by increasing travel allowances for assistant and defense lawyers, a system that the blues built up, which we're now building up again. SV will continue to do even more to strengthen legal certainty in Norway, but what we are doing here today is a fairly good start.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1361	I would like to begin by thanking you for a good work on the budget in the Committee this autumn. The budget presented by the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Right in the autumn responded to many of the challenges we see in the justice sector. The budget provided for police reform, judicial reform and the fight against violence in close relations, and started an urgent change in the legal aid system – to mention something. For the Left, it has been important to promote measures to ensure equality of law and access to justice for all and to strengthen the institutions on which the rule of law depends. I am pleased that many of the measures we have taken in recent years have been continued by the new government and SV, while registering the cuts and priorities that we in the Left disagree with. In the spring of 2021, the Left Government was part of the judicial reform. The background to the reform was challenges, including: the lack of effectiveness and the duration of proceedings, in particular in the criminal proceedings chain. The structure was considered to be so challenging that the Riksaudition found that it had implications for the legal certainty of individuals and for the trust in the judicial system. The Court reform took the concerns of the National Audit Office seriously, and it has worked. In addition to more effective time and legal certainty, the judicial reform ensures closeness to the courts and competence workplaces in the districts. In particular, increased specialisation among judges in different disciplines is possible. It is true that judges should be generalists, but increasing the level of specialisation will lead to increased competence in the judiciary, with a higher quality for the judicial audience. It's especially important in children's affairs. In my view, the reform also strengthens the fact that we keep several of the courts in smaller places, and they are more robust for the future, so this is also good district policy. There are not, as was said before, any courts that have been laid down. The big government has sent very unfortunate, and not least unclear, signals about the court reform. The Government Declaration states that the reform of the Court of Justice should be reversed, but does not indicate what actually implies that the judges and the municipalities in the judiciary or the employees, through their elected representatives, must agree to maintain the structure of the day. There is also no money to reverse the budget proposal, which makes the confusion complete. A reversal of the reform is estimated to cost 75 million. DKK and annual expenditure of SEK 37 million. kr. What is involved, on the other hand, in the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV's draft budget are several judges. In the case of a possible reversal of the structural reform in some courts, this grant will be left with an overcapacity which cannot be exploited. It is obviously very unfortunate, and it focuses on one of the objectives of the reform, namely better use of resources. The employees of the courts deserve greater predictability for their jobs and not a government that is in spite of professional advice and recommendations. It is said that the strength of liberal democracy can be measured by how we treat those who have harmed society. A liberal response balances punishment and treatment at the same time as it helps the victims. For the Left, it is important to counterbalance some thinking that the solution is, after all, stricter penalties and increased use of coercive measures. This is a solution we often resort to to signal a resistance to the injustice we see. That's the simplest answer, but rarely the right answer. Including everyone in the community from the start is the right solution to this challenge. The left will have a knowledge-based criminal policy aimed at rehabilitation, with the aim of bringing people who have committed criminal acts back into society. I hope more people agree with me when I say that we can't punish for revenge, but that we have to punish to secure society and help people who will one day become someone's neighbor. It is also the stated goal of punishment in Norway to rehabilitate and prepare convicted persons for a life outside prison. It is wise in both a socio-economic and an individual perspective, which deserves a free life with opportunities for punishment. As a result, it is incredibly important that prisoners have good health services under shelter, and that they have access to education, activity and work in prisons. Then the chance is greater to facilitate the transition to a life outside prison. While priority should be given to the field of justice, it is also important that the funds should be used properly. I hope that the new government will be involved in further work on police reform, judicial reform and criminal justice. The effort must always be to ensure that all people, regardless of their starting point, have equality of law and the ability to live a rich and good life with freedom and opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1386	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1391	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1396	The representative of Ingvild Wetrhus Thorsvik then addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1402	Today I could address many different themes in a wide range of important issues, but I want to lift violence and assault, for it is one of the most serious issues that children and young people in particular can experience, but of course it is bad for everyone. That is why, as a society, we have an extra big responsibility for prevention. We have a responsibility to prevent all crime, but assault targeting especially children and young people I think is one of the most important things that politicians have to work with. As the crime scene is constantly changing, as politicians and authorities, we need to work with a way that is adapted to today's challenge picture, in order to reduce abuse, in order to reduce the bad events that unfortunately happen increasingly. We see an increase, and we see an increase in the number of sexual offences reported against children, especially on digital surfaces – linked to the Internet, related to games, related to different social media. The changes that are taking place must meet with new knowledge and new methods of preventing and detecting the occurrence of events. So it's good that there's an increased number of reviews, because fear is that very much of it can be numbers that were not discovered before. Neither can the police solve the problems alone, but the police's work is absolutely vital to our success. Since many of the abuses take place in connection with digital platforms, we believe that we need to strengthen the work on crime in the digital space. That is why, when we were in government, we proposed increasing the appropriations for the police network patrol and for digital police work. Earlier in the harvest, we promoted our own digital security strategy to protect children and young people. One of the measures in that strategy was to continue working with just getting better knowledge about what is actually important, and we proposed a big message on the topic. I hope that the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Children and Family will follow up, because it is a field that needs full focus. In addition, we also presented a strategy against Internet-related child abuse. This strategy includes approximately the following elements: 30 actions with different proposals to ensure that children can have a secure digital growth. We have to recognise that the use of technology and the Internet, when it has expanded so enormously, makes it easier to get in touch with children, easier to share, for example. attack material and facilitate the exploitation of children and young people. We have to do something more about that. You would never let a child alone down to the center or down to bathe. You'd follow it. A lot of people today get with a mobile phone or iPad access to the Internet, which really gives access to everything without us following them well enough up. So it's not just the police's job. There's so much else that needs to be in place, both we as parents have to do a much better job and get help doing it in a good way, and school and other agencies have to be present, but the police have an important, important job to do. In the platform for the Big Government, there's one point I'm happy to say right there. It's that you want to come up with a new escalation plan against violence and assault. We demanded one when the Christian People's Party was in opposition. It came in 2016, and we were allowed to follow it up through budgetary cooperation and government. It is an enormously important work, but – as I said – when you see that the increase associated with violence and abuse only continues, I think it is important that the new government prioritises it high. Other measures in this field are, for example: reverse violence alarm, which we have unfortunately seen that the use of it has been too poor. The use has tripled in recent years, but there are still too few people who are being convicted of the reverse alarm of violence. To impose the burden on the offender of wearing the violent alarm is, I believe, absolutely correct, and it also makes it easier for those who have been subjected to the assault to live a freer life. I want to raise the State Children's House, which is also an important measure in the plan of escalation and in the fight against violence and abuse, especially against children. For children under 16 years of age, questioning can be carried out, forensic studies, and counselling and some treatment. I saw a report with over 30 different measures recommended to strengthen legal certainty – and that was given to the Police Directorate. I think it has to be followed up, because it's very good. There has been a huge development in the field, but there is still a lot of work to be done, and then it is important that the government follow it up to ensure that children are brought up safely and well, and that a good basis for their growth is laid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1423	The government wants to facilitate a society based on day-to-day security and good legal certainty for citizens throughout the country. We will prioritise prevention of serious incidents and facilitate the availability of resources from the police and emergency services when, unfortunately, serious things first happen. The new government wants to reverse the evolution we've seen under the former right-wing government. We want to counter centralisation, ensure that more resources and financial resources benefit the population in local communities throughout the country, instead of spending too much money on bureaucracy and centralised community services. Many of the grips we want to do are going to take time. We need to evaluate the near-police reform. We're going through the Police Directorate. We're going to take back the court structure. We need to improve the content of the bail and follow up prisoners in prisons better. We need an escalation plan against violence and abuse, especially against children and young people, and violence in close relationships. All of these things we're going to be working on over a longer period of time. But in the additional number of the state budget for 2022 and in the budget agreement with SV in Stortinget, we immediately follow up the ambitions of the Hurdal platform. We have put in a solid reinforcement throughout the justice sector. We're strengthening the police. We're strengthening the courts. We're strengthening criminal custody. We're strengthening security. We've got a lock on Svalbard. It has been important for this government to see the entire justice sector from the beginning. The government is proposing to strengthen the police budget by 200 million. kr more than the right-hand government. It is because we believe it is important that we get funds that can enable more police officers present locally, in local communities, in the metropolitan areas of Oslo, for example, but also in areas and districts of the country where the crew has fallen. This money is essentially going to go to it. The government also has an ambition to set up 20 new police posts over the next four years because of the signals coming from many places in the country, that the police are too far away after the reform, and too often the fire and rescue services have to take the burden on it, as has been pointed out earlier in the debate. We should therefore initiate a dialogue on the establishment of services in municipalities and police districts where there is a local desire to do so, or where the geographical picture or crime challenges suggest that the presence should be strengthened, during 2022. I would also like to show that in the budget agreement with SV we propose, in addition to the strengthening of the police, a strengthening of 5 million. to the State Children's Home, which is also important to ensure a good follow-up of children and young people who may be in very difficult situations in criminal matters, and follow-up throughout the country. The overall length of proceedings in police criminal proceedings is too high and the overall clearance rate is too low. For this reason, the government is now proposing in the supplementaryproposal and in the budgetary agreement with SV26 million. to strengthen the capacity and quality of the prosecution in the police. It is an important strengthening to reduce the residuals, i.e. the queues, in the criminal justice chain. The aim is that more issues should be resolved more quickly, and it is about strengthening the response to violence and abuse and ensuring that matters can be investigated instead of remaining in line, as for example. may lead to a penalty rebate, which would be contrary to the general legal position on the grounds that the proceedings have been pending for a long time. That's what we want to work against. A good balance in the criminal justice chain is important. That's what this government has been busy about from the beginning. When the police and prosecution work are strengthened, the courts must also be strengthened. The Government wants to increase the number of judges, especially in the smallest courts. We do that because it will be an important contribution to reducing the vulnerability of the smallest courts. We want to follow up the challenges pointed out by the Court of Justice Commission, by going away from exclusive jurisdictions. Norway has had extensive use of the judiciary. This measure will help to get officials instead of judges to some places where there have been too many judges against how many judges you have. In order to reduce the time spent and the queues in the courts, we also need to implement a digitisation promise. It is important for the government that all the courts and courts take part in that promise. That's why we're also proposing to grant $30 million. kr to continue the digitisation work of the courts, and SEK 25 million. kr of these shall be used to further develop the automation and digitisation of the electronic exchange of information between the actors in the criminal procedure. In criminal matters, it is an objective to restore more sentences after acquittal to a non-crime-free life. If we're going to do what everyone in society is doing, we have to have the right content and follow-up in the execution, and those who work in prisons have to have time to do that job. So the government is proposing 50 million. to increase staffing in criminal matters. The purpose of this is not just to have more people at work – for it's sake alone. It's about that we want to prevent isolation. We want to fill the ransom with content, and we want the return work to be easier both for those who work in prison, for the inmates involved, and for the big community. It is particularly important for young people. Then we will facilitate more equal relations between women and men in the implementation of criminal sanctions, closer follow-up of convictions with drug problems and more organised follow-up of custodians. In the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the SV, there is also a strong commitment to free legal aid. The appropriations now allocated to us in the budget agreement will bring about an adjustment in the rate of free legal aid of 30 p.m., and a significant increase in the proportion of the population will be channelled through that scheme. I think that is positive. It is good and important that more people who are in a difficult situation get free legal help. Then it's important for the government that we're not done there. We're going to go through the legal aid system and come back to how we can change it to ensure a better system that helps more of the vulnerable people in society. In the field of preparedness, it has been important for the government to strengthen civil defence, which is a civil state preparedness force for adverse events in peacetime. They are also available throughout Norway and are an important part of local preparedness in many places. We want to facilitate better maintenance of materials and more resources for the training and training of the civil defence crew. We know that civil defence has an incredibly important role to play in this. They've helped us in the covid pandemic. They have helped us in events involving forest fires and many other things around Norway, and therefore we propose to start by resuming the equipment set-up after the previous government by granting 10 million. kr to it and to increase the exercise activity. In the Yellow Book, it was proposed to strengthen the emergency response in North Norway, which concerns the establishment of the rescue helicopter base in Tromsø. This government is behind that measure. Finally, I would like to say that it is important for this government to have national control, national security high on the agenda. Threateners are increasingly using economic instruments to secure control and influence in Norway. Therefore, the government proposes to strengthen the national safety authority by 17.5 million. to prevent foreign operators from making purchases that threaten national security interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1459	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1464	I would like to challenge the Council of State for something she did not have in her post, namely the corona positions in the police. When the Right ruled the Ministry of Justice, we secured the biggest permanent manning promise for the police in modern times, and in the budget for this year we increased the police budget by nearly 0.5 billion. NOK to convert 400 so-called corona positions into permanent posts. The police union can now tell that the contracts to several of those who have held such a position are due to expire in a few days’ time – and that is problematic both for the police and not least for those who now have an undeclared job title. Does the Minister of Justice have a plan to ensure these positions in the near future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1469	This government has proposed 200 million. kr more to strengthen the police, and it will mainly go to increased staffing. It will make it possible to employ more people permanently. With regard to the posts that have been temporary, it is basically our desire to continue them, but then the right-wing government has created a demanding budgetary situation for many police districts. This means that money intended to go to permanent posts or to extend temporary posts must be spent on, for example: the purchase of equipment, police cars, maintenance and other items. It's a challenge we now want to clean up more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1476	I note that there is no plan for securing these posts. But I have another question, which concerns judicial reform. On several occasions, the right has asked questions about the judicial reform and the criteria for a reversal, which the Council of State itself has guaranteed to come. Some of the responses have pointed out that if there is local consensus, the reform shall be reversed and, if there is no local consensus, it shall not be reversed. We don't really know what the answer is. My question is, what is going to happen if a judicial reform is reversed in a court of law? Is it that a majority of the municipalities would have to, or that a majority of the municipalities wouldn't have to? Must it be full agreement, or is it enough that one municipality will reverse – and then it will be reversed?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1483	What I have said is that we want to provide information on how this process is to be done, as soon as possible, because I want to give predictability to it. According to the Hurdals platform, we have to reintroduce the previous structure, unless there is agreement between the municipalities, court leaders and trustees to maintain today's structure. Then I can reassure the representative that, in line with everyone else, he is going to get information about this when we are ready to give it. So far, we're working on completing a solution in the department because I'm concerned that it's going to be a clean process. I want to do that work thoroughly before we get back.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1488	The state councils were on standby. There are many important issues that need to be addressed in Norwegian preparedness, including civil protection. I agree with the Council of State in that, but one of the most important is that after the terrible events that took place ten years ago, one of the important issues that was decided and implemented under the previous government was to put in place the National Police Emergency Centre on Taraldrud and equip them with emergency resources to be available. It was a prerequisite all the way — all the way — that we have response resources there that are available 24-7, 365 days a year. Can the Council of State assure us that this is the case today, that the National Emergency Response Resources of the National Emergency Response Centre are available at 24-7? Will she guarantee that so will also be the case in 2022?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1493	As far as I'm aware, the National Emergency Response Centre works well and according to intent. So there's a lot of other things than exactly what's also important for preparedness. It is a support function, and it is a function that will have a limited geographical scope in Norway. For this government, it is important that we continue the good work we do at the National Police Emergency Response Centre, as well as that we build preparedness in the police districts and at the local police stations throughout Norway, because it will also be important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1498	It is quite clear that IP3 functions are also important to have out there, and it is also part of the task that the National Emergency Response Centre should contribute, namely to give training and practice to that part of the police out there. The point is that what has been a prerequisite when the Storing has dealt with the matter, when the previous government has dealt with the matter, and actually an agreement in this room, has been that the national response resources at Taraldrud should be present 24-7, so that if it is imperative to use the standby stop, or the bombing team must make an effort, whenever it is on the clock, those resources should be available. That is why I repeat my question, because this is very important. If this is not the case, we can end up in a situation where we do not have the response personnel needed to deal with a terrorist incident on Norwegian soil. I ask again, can the Council of State assure the Government that these resources are present at 24-7?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1507	I can repeat what I said. I have no reason to believe that the National Emergency Response Centre is not available to the police districts as intended. There have been events in the fall where they have set up, for example: they were immediately requested after the incident on Kongsberg, as far as I know. It's a resource that's available, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1513	A legal state costs money, and there is no doubt that defence and assistance lawyers in Norway are getting too low a salary. We get to do something in the budget unit, but there's still a lot left. One of the requirements that has been important in the current action, including in the national Supreme Court, is to ensure that lawyers have a genuine right to negotiate. In the previous period, the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV voted in favour of a good proposal. In fact, it was quite in line with the demands of the Law Association, in which we agreed to propose different models for annual discussions or negotiations between the State and the Law Association when setting the public salary rate. What's fine, is that now there's a majority of these parties to be able to do something like that. So my question to the minister is whether the government is working on a proposal for a right to negotiate for lawyers, or whether the government parties have changed their position on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1522	These are issues that it is natural to consider towards the next state budget. I know that there is a great deal of commitment for both the representative to the salary and the right to negotiate, and also for example. absence allowance and other things in the legal environment. I cannot forge or make any promises now that they will have their claims met. I believe that we have made an important commitment to the judicial area and also to the lawyers by actually raising the salary, which was not included in the budget of the Solberg government. I'm aware that we still have a way to go if we're going to base the lawyers' wishes, but I want to invite them to further dialogue on these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1531	The Minister of Justice was in his contribution to young people who were both lawbreakers and insulters. The Minister of Justice also mentioned in the VG last week that a pilot project was to be set up with an exit programme for young people. This is already part of what is being worked on in the conflict councils, with the youth reactions, which the government and SV cut in this budget. The Councils of Conflict play an incredibly important role in bringing in young people who have committed criminal acts, and it is particularly important for young people who are on the threshold of recurring crime and other challenges. It is important that, as a society, we make a good and adapted offer for each young person so that we can prevent new crime. For the response to be effective, it is dependent on the motivation of the youth and the individuality of the follow-up. Then it's a very bad thing that this cut loses the competence that's already in the conflict councils today. Is it so that the Council of State thinks that today's youth reactions are not suitable for reaching these young people to be reached by the exit programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1542	I think it is absolutely essential that we build on the juvenile punishment, and that the follow-up of young criminals is done in both an individual, well-adapted way and as soon as possible after the young person has committed crime, or has become involved in something that makes you get in that track. In the case of the concrete cut, there's a cut of the Solberg government itself let in. The initial appropriation was 5 million. kr, which the Right and Left reduced to 3 mill. kr. We have chosen to take it completely out, because, as far as I know, it is items that have been and were meant to be temporary, and we did not find any reason to continue them in this budget. We will continue to work against juvenile delinquency and to follow up young criminals on a broad front, and there are many other things than this that are also becoming important now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1551	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1556	The justice sector is part of the core of a democracy. It is about legal certainty, security, effective fight against crime and good rehabilitation. The activities of the sector are responsible for the basic functions of society. The population should be able to trust that these tasks will be handled in a good way. This budget provides a good basis for us to strengthen that confidence. The budget is a continuous strengthening of the entire field of justice. Police are a central player in the sector, and police reform has changed the Norwegian police force. It is necessary for the police, together with the public sector, to change in line with social developments. However, the Labour Party had to withdraw its support for the reform at some point. In the light of the fact that the right-wing government did not implement the reform in line with what we thought was intentional and that the reform was underfunded. In the police districts, strong functional units and professional communities have been built. This is done to deal with serious crime and crime taking new forms, often online. This strength of the functional units has been stronger than the construction of the geographical units. This is described in the Police Notice – a police force for the future, published in 2020. I want to go so far as to claim that the reinforcement has occurred at the expense of the geographical units. This has resulted in a centralisation of resources. It's the geographical units that provide security and preparedness. It's the geographical units that make sure that the population sees the police, and it's the geographical units that investigate most of the crime that affects people. The previous government included in its proposal for a budget that the 400 temporary so-called coronation positions be permanent and that they should mainly be used to strengthen the geographical units. There is a recognition that the reform has been underfunded and that it has been a clear division of resources around the police districts. The population survey for 2019 shows that residents who do not perceive that the police are regularly visible in their local area or that the police are regularly in contact with the local area are less secure than the majority. When it comes to response time, the police did not collect the required response time in 2019. The most important thing is to ensure that crime and unwanted events do not happen. Local police throughout the country need to be strengthened, both to ensure better prevention and to have a faster response to serious incidents. A decentralised police structure ensures readiness and necessary local knowledge of the police. Good preparedness requires clear lines of responsibility and local anchoring. The main response resource is the local police, in cooperation with municipalities, health services and the fire and rescue services. Then it's like this, as mentioned earlier, that new forms of crime are usually online. It is therefore important that work on digital security is strengthened. This means, among other things: that the police must be present in everyday life for people, including in the digital everyday life. In this budget, the government emphasises increased local presence and cooperation, including in the digital space. The government, in its additional proposal, proposes a commitment to the police to facilitate a stronger fight against crime, better prevention and better investigation. Measures that strengthen basic staffing and dialogue with municipalities on local action and the addition of civil competences can facilitate more presence and a visible and accessible police force. The government strengthens its efforts to combat organised digital crime and other serious crime, including: gang crime, violence in close relationships and sexual assault. In 2022, a dialogue shall be launched on the creation of service locations in municipalities and police districts where there is a local desire to strengthen the geographical or crime scene. With this, the police will be better equipped to meet the expectations of the citizens of the building.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1581	Eight years of civil government have led us to have a justice sector that is better able to deal with today's and future challenges than ever. Strong strengthening of budgets has led to more staff and new and better equipment in both police and judicial circles. We took over a police force that was unable to deal with the 22nd of July, and both the Gjørv Commission and the police study concluded that both organisation, interaction and management had to improve. All the recommendations of the Gjørv Commission were followed up in our time of government, and the target of 2 policemen per 1,000 inhabitants was reached. In the case of the courts, the Riksrevision concluded that the legal security of citizens was threatened, especially because the professional environment was too small and the resources were not used well enough. In other words, there were very good reasons for both police reform and judicial reform. In the Hurdal platform, the government writes that they will reverse both police and judicial reform. The courts shall return to the old structure and several small offices shall be reopened. That is worrying and deeply regrettable. When the world changes, the structures and practices also have to change. The solution is not to stand with the back of the future and to oppose all changes. If the police and court reform becomes a reality, it will go beyond the important job they are going to do, cost a lot of money and create uncertainty and uncertainty for employees – time and money that should have been used to think ahead and strengthen the services, as both the police and the courts themselves call for. It is difficult to interpret the government's reversals in a way other than to reverse the reform of the government of Solberg, to cost what it will cost, and even if this affects both the security and legal security of people. The judicial reform may be the least centralising reform in history. No courts have been closed, and no employees have lost their job. Feedback shows that the reform works as intended. The issues are being dealt with more quickly, and the scientific community has become larger. The rule of law for people is strengthened. Very heavy and important professional bodies have expressed their support for judicial reform. The Supreme Court, the Association of Lawyers, the Association of Lawyers, the Sorenists, the Administration of the Court of Justice, the Association of Judges, the General Labour Committee in the courts of Norway, a number of state lawyers, all the country's prime ministers, and the Head of Ecokrim have warned against a reversal. Furthermore, the Children’s Ombudsman and the Stine Sofies Foundation have warned that a reversal could impair the legal certainty of children. Children’s affairs are often very complex, and knowledge of specific legislation is absolutely necessary, which was difficult to obtain in small courts. Today’s organisation means that knowledge and competence can be shared among the judges, which means that matters can be dealt with better and more quickly, and children avoid being unnecessarily long in difficult conflicts. It is alarming that the Government of Støre chooses to overlook clear and clear professional advice from the vast majority of the most important professional environments in the justice sector, and that the government actively promotes a policy that will weaken the legal certainty of people. As several of the agencies were involved in the budget hearing, both technical equipment and buildings are needed, and the money should be used here much rather than to reverse a reform that was both necessary and – not least – that works as intended. Now it is time for the government, which has said they should listen to people, to listen to those who ask the government to think well before they reverse reforms that both work and were necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1604	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1609	When I started high school in Oslo west and said I was from Groruddalen, the first question I was met with was, what? Are you carrying a gun where you come from? The question was shocking. Yet I ended up laughing, because it was so far from reality. But it is politics that creates attitudes, and again attitudes that create policies. See, for example: to Oslo: We introduced summer jobs, and then the police reported that these were the calmest summers they had experienced in recent times. We had extensive nursery facilities, and then we halved the use of cash support. If you are engaged in professional activities, there are a number of professionals who choose the profession. And based on what we're betting, we have the consequences. In Oslo, 97 pst. by the youth never had anything to do with the police. It is also a consequence of politics. Our ambition must be that policy should not lead one to our table: justice. The ambition should be that there is kindergarten, common school and child protection, a workplace or hub that captures you. But different ways of life mean that we human beings still have to deal with the field of justice. Then our agencies must have enough money to both prevent and react. Both parts must be added. Youth crime has dominated the media. Political leaders who only call for police take only a reactive role and no responsibility in a prevention role. Both parts must be added. That's why it's important that we now go in by 200 million. extra to the police districts, of which 40 million. kr is earmarked for Oslo. This strengthens the prevention process. Boy at Holmlia as well as the girls at Frogner shall have the same people, show face and build trust. Police must be given resources to work on competence over time, including: with repeat criminality, and do not take action on the Jojo when the theme dominates the media. With this budget, we are also launching the first exit programmes. I look forward to these pilots, such as will lead to the House of Change being able to launch pilots that I want them to have a lot of luck with. Finally, criminal justice. We're strengthening criminal custody by 50 million. kr. Criminal custody is care and not storage. People should be able to come out with more and better tools than they come in with. Then we need enough employees to follow it up. In particular, young prisoners depend on proper rehabilitation work and not least on the possibility of having visits by family and friends. Many people say that this is an important part of the reversal. Policies must be tough on crime, but even tougher on the causes of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1630	This government facilitates the targeted strengthening of the courts. Access to legal services is a matter of fundamental legal certainty. It's clear that it means something, as the Center Party and the Workers' Party sees it, that we have courts spread throughout the country, and that these have frameworks that ensure independence, high professional competence and local leadership. We have a goal that everyone should be able to claim their right wherever you live or who you are, and then the courts have to be where people are. This is what is at stake after the previous government chose to weaken the courts by removing local management and making them department offices, which are not the same as a district court. Full courts in local communities are important for the trust and availability of the judicial system. Therefore, the government is using funds to recruit more judges in the smallest courts and courts. It will reduce the vulnerability of individual courts, as the Council of State was concerned, and strengthen the offer in parts of the country that have previously been deprived. Experience has shown that shutting down district courts causes local trade unions to be confused, and it has implications for legal certainty for individuals, businesses and the local public sector. This, of course, also increases the risk of other related competence jobs being also centralised. The government also reinforces the important digitisation work in the courts. Where, in recent years, individual parties have tried, both through words and actions, to make it a truth that a digitalised society must mean a more centralised society, we have a opposite view. The ever-new digital tools we have at our disposal enable us to strengthen professional environments across geography, while at the same time the courts are close to people in a sensible and decentralised structure. That's how land change judges who work, for example. with grazing rights, whether in Tana or Tynset, simply discuss matters between themselves, while the courts in Bærum or Egersund, for example. can work together on the challenges facing major cities and cities. There are several in this room who now spend time trying to undermine the work the government has begun to do in connection with the restoration of courts throughout the country. As the Council of State has already said, the clear starting point is to reintroduce the old structure unless there is agreement between local actors on something else. The courts have their place in the local professional community and are part of local communities throughout the country. It cannot be resolved as a remote-controlled service completely independent of geography. This is why a court budget is good, which makes the work of decentralisation possible, and which takes the courts into the future with a clear digital commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1643	Policy is about priorities, and it has been clear what the right-hand side has chosen to prioritise over the last eight years. Every year they have been able to find money for new tax cuts for those who have the most, and there has been no lack of creativity to finance this tax party with petty cuts — every year. But they haven't found the money to clean up the crime scene – no, they've chosen to cut it. Money to strengthen legal certainty for those who have the least has not been found either. That's where they cut, too. The cows in the courts grew to a dramatic high level, and the lawyers' prices went to heaven. In their last state budget, they also cut off the support of voluntary organisations working with legal aid for drug addicts, refugees, debt slaves – people who have nothing. But money for new tax cuts to them at the top, it found the Right, Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left every year they had the power. Politics is about priorities. Together with the government, SV takes justice policy in a new direction. Until next year, more officials will be employed where there are few today, which strengthens the provision of justice in parts of the country that have previously been deprived. Increasing the rate of digitisation in courts, increasing travel allowances for lawyers and experts, increasing staffing in prison, strengthening rehabilitation and, not least, addressing the seriousness of the criticism that Norway has received for its excessive use of isolation. Support for the State Children's Home is being increased, which will give better follow-up to children who experience terrible events. Police are strengthened, the prosecution authority is strengthened, the exit programmes are strengthened, and free legal assistance is given an extension. And this is just in the field of justice. It is now in the field after field because the voters have said clearly from there. Now they want more, not less fellowship. We redistribute more from those who have a lot to all of us. We do not prioritize tax cuts to them at the top, but show that it is actually possible to expand the welfare state. Increased taxes to the richest give more money to solve society's challenges. We in SV are happy that we have a new majority in Norway, that we are now taking society in a new direction, but this is just the beginning. We're going to fold up the sleeves and work every day for a policy for the many, not the ones at the top.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1655	The Progress Party is clear that we need a significant strengthening of the Norwegian police force. We need increased appropriations for criminal services and not least more money for the courts, both to avoid more cases and also to introduce sound and images into all courts. It is a serious cross-section of thought that most local governments around the country, even small municipalities that hardly have inhabitants – a bit of a fluff, we can say that you could get the whole municipality into the municipal government hall – have sound and image transmission from the municipal government meetings, but in the courts we do not have it. Why is this important? Indeed, a stronger focus and strengthened resources in these areas are vital both to ensure the daily lives of most people and to ensure legal certainty. Especially in Oslo, but unfortunately we see trends also in other big cities, we have got bigger and bigger problems with youth gangs, cynical, brutal and violent gangs. In Oslo, unfortunately, we have been used to hearing about violence, rapes, rans, car fires, repeated shooting episodes, killings, and simply regular executions. It is no coincidence that in Norway we have had and still have a debate about Swedish states and whether Oslo is no longer a safe city. That's not how we can and should not have it. In traffic, we have a zero vision. This means that no one, absolutely no one, is to be killed or seriously injured in road accidents. In traffic, we're talking about accidents. As stated in the word, accidents are not cynical and planned riots, killings or acts of violence, but accidents can occur, for example: due to smooth driving conditions when you get tossed on the car and get into the opposite lane and can end up in a front-to-front situation. But the crime we see -- especially in Oslo, both juvenile and recriminal -- we don't have accidents. It's cynical criminals who deliberately plan to rob, hurt or kill other people, and that's not how we can do it. We must also have a zero vision in terms of brutal and violent crime, for such a development we have in Oslo must not be accepted, and it must be stopped. Then the police have to get the tools they need. They have to get more money, more resources. We strengthen, among other things: efforts to combat youth and nightlife crime by 75 million. kr. The police also have to arm themselves, so that they can protect both society and themselves, and then we have to put an end to the unhealthy and unilateral criticism of the police, which comes especially from the left. Unfortunately, the more you go to the left-hand side you get, the more you get to the left-hand side. I see, for example: that SV points out that many people feel that they are being stopped by the police because of their skin colour. SV clearly believes that it is a problem that immigration youth is stopped and controlled by the police. But dear SV – there's a logic in why this happens, why the police stop immigrant youth and not old ladies, and that's what I come back to in my next post.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1670	Police are the first line of society in law enforcement and democracy. The left has contributed, within and outside the government, to the increase in the police’s operating budget by over 4.2 billion. kr, and for the first time, the target of two police officers per thousand inhabitants has been achieved. Norway has thus received the strongest police staff in modern times, and the number of police posts has increased by over 3,600. The police role is different today than it was a few years ago, and developments in issues such as online abuse, environmental crime and economic crime have created new challenges for the police. It requires more specialisation, professional cooperation and targeted efforts in specific areas. The government and SV want to start work on establishing 20 new police posts in 2022 and increase the budget by 200 million. kr. The left believes that this is the wrong use of money. You can open a police station for a few hours a week, but that's not sure when crime happens. If you're exposed to a crime, it doesn't matter that you have a police station in the village. What you need then is a police officer who can assist you or prevent further crimes. If you are offended in a criminal case under investigation, you will find that there will be enough investigators competent to carry out an effective and thorough investigation. If the investigation takes place from a police station in the neighborhood, it is much less important. The Joint Police Association has stated that they want the increase in the budget to be applied to several police posts rather than to new police offices. The new government disagrees. They will prioritise the establishment of 20 police offices rather than ensuring the necessary staffing and competence. It is a pity, because there are no police analyses or recommendations on the establishment of 20 police posts, nor that it will lead to reinforced preparedness. Using funds to create new places of employment could create a false security rather than use the resources where they are actually monks — on police personnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1687	Governments pointed out in their speeches how important it is to strengthen civil protection. I very much agree with the Council of State on this point. What is not so easy to see, however, is how the new government does it to some particular extent of importance. The Progress Party has long proposed strengthening civil defence, and we believe in our alternative state budget that there is a need to do it by nearly 180 million. kr. It is about equipment out of stock, useless equipment back from the 1950s, but also about ensuring training and ensuring that you have the necessary personnel and preparedness. When the Council of State received questions from the undersigned as to whether she can guarantee that the National Emergency Response Centre of the Police is present 24-7 years a year, I think she used the term ‘as far as I am aware’, or something like that. Then I would recommend to the Council of State to get to know it, because the Storting must be able to be sure that the National Police Emergency Response Centre is on a 24-hour basis operational. It has been a prerequisite, and once the significant investments actually made at Taraldrud have been made, it is also natural that sufficient resources are available to meet the objective of the National Emergency Response Centre. So it's a little strange to hear the argument for introducing control receipts, which the police now seem to be forced into the capital. That is what the Progress Party believes is actually a gift package for the gangs, because it will make it difficult for the police to exercise extensive control over the individuals who are quite rightly overrepresented in the environment. It is easy for the racism card to be drawn when individuals are checked several times. This makes the police less able to carry out their mission, and it is very regrettable that the SV's radical policy is being implemented in this area. There is a misunderstanding that there is some kind of systematic racism in the Norwegian police, which is rejected up and down. It will only make the situation more difficult for all policy-makers and policy-makers out there to carry out their mission on behalf of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1698	In this debate, it is quite clear that there are certainly some clear lines between the right-hand side and the left-hand side in the area of justice. This makes me think of all the debates I was in the previous period, on News Day 18, the News Channel and here in the Chamber, with representatives from the Right and the Advance Party. The theme was not surprising — and often — crime. The song from the Right and the Advance Party was largely that now we have to be tougher, we have to tighten up, we have to turn on, for example. in the case of nightlife and juvenile delinquency. The result was, for example: that children were placed in high-security prisons for adult men. Does that help? The officers say no, they can't protect the children from the adults. We are in a situation where children become more criminal in prison. In the street, it hasn't improved either. But I record that the right side still sings this song. I think we need to have an honest approach to reality. We have to assume that as a society, we have been in a situation where children down to the age of 13 have become serious criminals. It is a Community responsibility, and our community has not been strong enough. Then it is not always useful to go in with the sharp end. We have to be there for that child when he or she is 4 years old and needs an offer in kindergarten, when it needs a leisure offer as a 10-year-old, when it falls outside as a 12-year-old and on its way out of school and into crime and intoxication as a 16-year-old. Here you can see a distinction between the right-hand side and the left-hand side. The right seems to be only concerned with catching and taking, being hard on the clutch and ‘tough on crime’. Then we have to do what Gunaratnam's representative said instead: we have to be 'tough on crime', but tougher against the causes of crime. It's being smart about crime. We have to see the traces of a person's life, what leads from child to maybe an adult man in prison. Then the police must be present – preventive and active. Police must cooperate with municipalities, be present and prevent crime – not only when crime has occurred. That is why I think the government's understanding of police reform is important. It's a close-by police force where people live, we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1711	Criminal services have a high level of social responsibility. They shall balance the consideration of a criminal execution which is of general preventive nature and which shall at the same time enable the courts to meet society at the end of their term of office. They're going to help those who are going from being convicted to becoming our good neighbor, and they've been doing so in the last few years within very scarce resources. It is therefore such an important step that the government is now increasing significantly in this area. The large number of voluntary actors involved in criminal care impresses me as a new justice policy – from those who provide free legal aid to those who cannot afford it themselves, those who create content and activity in their everyday lives, and not least those who stand on the outside waiting for those who are going back to life. They help those of us who have fallen outside, to get a foot within. In Norway, many thousands of children grow up with their father, mother, or sibling in prison. There's a lot of shame attached to it. Therefore, it can be difficult both to handle it and to talk about it. Little by chance, I became aware of the fact that there is a separate offer through the Church's Bymition that helps children and young people to keep in touch with their family member who is in prison, who helps build a bridge between the atonement and the life and the people you're going back to. It's an incredibly important work, when we know how demanding that transition is for many. This represents some of the width of what is under the jurisdiction of criminal law. Crime is caused by alienation, and crime creates alienation. Although it is very good to say about the work done every day in criminal matters, the aim must be to ensure that they are responsible for as few people as possible. Of course, when an important political objective is to combat crime, the causes of crime are, and prevention is, an important part of it. The police's main strategy is prevention, but preventing crime is not just the responsibility of the police, it goes across sectors. The work done by e.g. The Church’s City Mission in Prison Service is important prevention. The strengthening of criminal services, good supply and activity under restitution, as this government has committed itself to, is also the prevention of new crime. Overall, the government's draft budget gives a new direction, a direction for people irrespective of geographical or social divisions to have access to legal assistance. We get a visible and accessible police across Norway, so that those of us who need it get the help that is needed, and the conditions that make the way from outside to within a little easier.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1726	As I said in my first post, the most important thing is to make sure that crime doesn't happen. Good prevention is about using many tools at the same time. Being present and having local knowledge is important. At the same time, it requires extensive cooperation with other authorities, both state and local authorities. The coordination of cross-border resources is crucial in order to achieve good prevention and impact over a long period of time. It means, in other words, that the police must have the capacity to be present locally, and that one is present digitally. And yet we can never prevent everything. Crime preludes, criminal offences occur. It is also a preventive element that criminal offences are followed up and actually investigated, that relationships are clarified and that perpetrators are held accountable. It is important that the victims of crime are followed up, and that their cases are treated in a good and defensive way. This is particularly true of serious crime, especially in close relationships and sexual offences, and it is true throughout the criminal justice chain, not only during the investigation phase. We rely on good and thorough investigation, good and defensive prosecution decisions and then court proceedings within reasonable time. Then we have to see that there are challenges to this. In 2020, the National Judicial Office and the State Attorney General carried out the second national quality investigation of police investigation and prosecution of priority electoral cases. The results showed an improvement since 2016, but there are still challenges, including the highest priority issues. E.g.: is the percentage of clearance for selected and sexual offences too low, and the duration of treatment is also too long. For many of the insults in this kind of case, long treatment periods mean that life is put on hold. It is extremely unfortunate if insults experience such an additional tax. Nor is it in any way positive that a perpetrator has to wait a long time for conviction. An effective criminal action chain without unnecessary lay time is undoubtedly beneficial to both the victim and the perpetrator. Therefore, it is crucial that we remove so-called bottlenecks as far as possible in the criminal chain. As of today, there are capacity challenges in law enforcement. Overall, the length of criminal proceedings conducted by the police is too long, and the overall clearance rate is not satisfactory. The government is therefore proposing to increase the allowable proposal by 26.3 million in the additionalproposal. For the law of the police, like unto the book of Yellow. It will increase the capacity and quality of law enforcement agencies in the police. Together with an increase of 200 million. This will contribute to an important lift to the police. This is an important contribution to giving priority to serious crime, including: chosen in close relationships and sexual abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1739	In the posts of the representative, Rødby, it could seem as if we had no full courts in the whole country anymore. The new court structure has led us to have courts throughout the country – we have full courts throughout the country. And no, local trade unions haven't weathered. On the contrary, they have become stronger. Now, for example: The list of things in Farsund draws on the competence of both Kristiansand and Arendal. This means that the small district court can deal with demanding matters that require specialisation, for example: in children's matters, which was challenging in the old structure, and people going to court don't have to travel any longer than they needed before. As I said in a previous post, this may be the least centralizing reform in history. Once again, it is alarming that the government does not seem to want to listen to those who know where the shoe is pressing in this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1746	Everyone depends on everyday security, and that security must not be limited by how thick your wallet is. Therefore, the fight to improve the free legal aid system is an important part of the fight against Difference Norway. In other countries, we like to compare ourselves with, like Denmark and Sweden, the coverage of free legal aid is 49 pst, respectively. and 43 pst. Today, Norway has a coverage of about 9 pst. With today's system, the limit is so low that the unsatisfied servant is too much to be qualified for free legal assistance. What does access to free legal aid mean in practice in people's lives? It's a question of getting the legal help you need, when you need it the most, and not having to spend a lot of money on lawyers. That's why Red is very happy that the budget agreement is adding up to a commitment for free legal aid, and that you increase the coverage. That's necessary, even though we still have a long way to go. In our alternative state budget, Red also proposes increased appropriations for actions such as Jussbuss, Gate Lawyers and JURK, all of which contribute to strengthening legal certainty for ordinary people. The fight to strengthen the rule of law and ensure that how much money you have is not to be decisive, continues. We have to give the police and our courts enough time to investigate more crimes. Everyday crime is all too often imposed, and victims of family violence, abuse and rape experience cases being ordered, or perpetrators being punished for a long period of time. At the same time, large sums are earmarked for the transport of non-residents without a residence permit. Red thinks it's a wrong priority. Red expects the new government to forward the efforts of the police in the justice budget to the police staff, and not least to the people they need to help. Red will eliminate targets for outbound transport and bring down the Foreign Affairs Department of the Police. We want to transfer employees and professional environments with acute competences, with corresponding appropriations, back to the police districts, and we want to create new investigative positions for sexual crimes and violence in close relationships. This is how Red proposes a strong strengthening of our police districts, while giving the police confidence to assess for themselves how to assess transport to other tasks. Red will significantly strengthen criminal custody. Through the reversal of the planned skills resulting from the ABE reform – which will also be launched by the new government in 2022 – and the upgrading of the first line, we counteract harmful isolation of prisoners and violence and threats to employees. At the same time, we are proposing to strengthen the courts, including: through a trial of recording and filming in court, and we propose to strengthen the Office for the Compensation of Victims. Norway also loses billions annually as a result of tax evasion and labour crime. Every day, white-collar offenders escape because Ecocrim does not have sufficient resources to investigate. Red will strengthen Ecocrime and strengthen the a-crime centres’ fight against labour crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1765	Over my previous 14 years as rapporteur in Salangen, I made many experiences considering the importance of local preparedness and not least the presence of local police with knowledge and knowledge of the community. It's incredibly important to remember that when we think about what local presence actually is, what it's about. It is true that the previous government did not follow up the Storting decision of 2018 to strengthen all remaining positions of service. I have two examples from Trom's police district, from which I myself come: Skjervøy and Ibestad. So when representatives of the opposition talk about the fear of empty offices, you know what you're talking about. The government parties, on the other hand, are concerned that we should have a minimum staff when we are going to complete the establishment of 20 posts. It's enough for me to quote the last part of the Twitter message from Trom's police district of September, which I quoted earlier today, namely, that 'nearest police patrol is too far away to be able to make any sense, so we're not coming'. It was reproduced in the Trom's Volkeblad and is a brilliant example of the need for local presence and government involvement in police in this state budget. There are people who are concerned that the court reform should be reversed. Well, then it's enough to remember a year back. At that time there was no majority in this Chamber for judicial reform, but in December 2020 the Progress Party chose to ensure that the previous government could carry out a judicial reform in half a year. When representatives from some parties are concerned about calm, because there's been enough change, there's something about the history that might be worth reflecting a little bit over. Finally, in the case of specialised courts, pointing to, for example, child protection cases and child distribution cases, it is the most common type of case in which a court has jurisdiction. That's the kind of thing they have to the greatest extent. The competence in these areas is actually quite good. In addition, it is avoided to have a longer route than is necessary, which is also a burden in relation to that type of case. Finally, it may be worth mentioning that at least I am sure that the government, on the basis of the Hurdal platform and by a good majority in this magnificence, is committed to ensuring a police, a preparedness and courts that are the best for the citizens of the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1780	It's very interesting to note that this is a debate in the Justice Committee about the snow that fell last year. It shows that we have a majority on the Stortinget – the government parties and the SV – who have no vision of how to further develop the justice sector in Norway, and who have no vision of what the police will be in the future, and what the courts will do in the future. The only thing I hear is about reversing, stopping and criticising the snow that fell last year – even reverse things that are accepted with open arms, and that people out there are satisfied with. I refer to the previous speeches, which dealt with the reform of the courts, which the Progress Party quite rightly provided for the majority in the Grand Duchy, but it was a reform that was very different from the reform put forward by the previous government. We were given security to maintain a good district profile that ensured that we have courts all over the country, and that there is no reduction in staffing in the districts. It was even so clear that the Storting should be involved if major changes and changes are made to the structure. It ensured the Progress Party, and we are proud that we have that judicial reform in place. It was the work of the Progress Party alone that made sure that we got a good solution, which people are satisfied with out there. It's only in the Center Party that it's perceived as a problem. It's very strange, but I understand why: When the Central Party was going to negotiate with the Workers' Party, they obviously had to reverse something – also in the field of justice – and of course they weren't allowed to reverse the police reform, because it wouldn't be very good and sensible. But why not take the last reform, which you hadn't quite seen the consequences of at that time? It is therefore the judicial reform – which no one has ever asked to reverse – that the centre party is now taking advantage of to reverse. I wish that the new majority in the Biggest had some bigger ideas, some bigger ideas, a higher sky for how the justice sector will evolve in the time to come, and that it was not just about the snow that fell last year, and about reforms that have to be reversed – and that have proved to be excellent. Let's talk about adjusting the policy so that things get even better, because there's no one sitting on the fasit. The previous government also made mistakes – I'll be clear on that: it wasn't prioritised enough police in the districts, but to blackmail the situation when you're on your own with responsibility, it's getting kind of crazy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1792	Some of the major posts under the Justice budget are the police and the courts: two institutions that have a long tradition in Norway as important guardians of our democracy. In Norway, we have for a long time agreed that democracy, justice and security are not just people living in cities. No, the whole country has to take part in these goodies. It is in that tradition that the last eight years with the Right, Left, Advance Party and Christian People's Party at the rudder are in stark contrast. Then the tone was suddenly a completely different one: not services for everyone wherever you live — no, now courts and police were to be centralised as soon as possible. Fortunately, they did not have time to deal with the courts until they rushed through a poorly planned reform in our time – with the assurance that the election campaign was due to fall. Most people disagreed on the course they had pointed out, and earlier this fall they sent out a clear signal that centralization is not the way to go, by choosing a new political majority. Now it is very gratifying to see the clear signals coming from the new Minister of Justice, both in the media and in this budget. The court structure shall return to what it was before the incorrect reform of the Right. We warmly welcome that in Telemark. The legal environments of the Notodden and the White Sea are important for the whole state – for people in the whole state – and we need them as independent and strong courts in the future as well. For the previous speaker, I just want to say that there has been a tremendous commitment to the municipalities and to the population to get the courts back as they were. In the case of the police, the last government was unfortunately given a little better time than they were given with the courts. Not only did they drop down a number of posts, they also lost many of the remaining posts in Telemark for people: Bamble, Drangedal, Skien, Witteseid, Notodden, Rjukan and Seljord they lost with about 75 employees through the reform. The total of Telemark is a crazy centralization to Vestfold and Tønsberg, and there are many fewer policemen working in Telemark than before. The fact that the number of policemen has fallen is affecting people in Telemark. The response time in locations with less than 2000 residents in the South-East police district has increased by five minutes since 2016 – and only the reported sites. It testifies to the cynical depriority of the former government to those who live extremely. Fortunately, it has now turned around: the Centre Party and the Workers' Party are ready to set up new posts and ensure a minimum number of staff at all posts. Not least, we have every right to have a more present police force throughout Norway once again with the budget effort of the new government. The Central Party, the Workers' Party and the SV have prioritised 200 million. kr more to the police in 2022 than the Right, Left and Christian People's Party did. This will mean a great deal for both the safety and legal certainty of telemarkets and everyone else throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1809	There was a leak about Oslo, and then I feel like I'm answering it. In my short time as a justice politician, I have traveled around Oslo a little bit with the theme of how we prevent juvenile delinquency. There's really no one calling the police on the first point, and no one says that because you're from Oslo, you're more likely to be a criminal, or that it's more likely to be a criminal because you have a migrant background. What people are asking for are more teachers, more environmental workers, more health care professionals – comprehensive student services that can prevent more people from falling away. We tend to say that voters get the politicians they deserve, but in many ways we also get the people we deserve. What we invest in, and what we invest in, also has consequences. In the district of Stovner, the active teams have out there to prevent youth. In the Grorud district, they have developed what is called neighbourhood schools, which use the whole community as a resource to prevent youth crime. In the mountain district, they've developed their own setup to reach the young people they're worried about. At Bjørnholt secondary school in the district of Søndre Nordstrand, they have developed the most extensive student service I have ever been away from. In Oslo, there are thousands, if not tens of thousands, of people who are making a great effort to prevent juvenile delinquency and that young people fall outside, and then our job as big-time politicians should be how we can give them the best tools to continue the great work – not to miss out on a whole city. No one would have tolerated it if I had done it about another municipality or another city, represented in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1818	The President would point out that there is a lot to be said from the Parliamentary pulpit, but that the term ‘long with lip’ may perhaps not be said to be in good parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1823	I expect a huge boost for both the justice sector and the courts in the future, much greater than what we have seen in the budget of the Labour Party and the Centre Party for 2022. We can start with the digitization promise, as we've heard from the Central Party and the Council of State that it's already in progress, obviously. Then we expect that there will be enough money to provide sound and picture, so that we can get it in all the courts. It's important. I'm a little confused with what the Minister of Justice said about increasing the number of judges. Isolatedly, it is very positive, but it was a conceit: ‘in particular in the smallest courts’. Then I say, well, because I'm jumping over that. It assumes that you need all the judges in the districts and in the very small places. I had the pleasure of meeting the janitor in Hamar, at the East Inland District Court, who has courts at Hamar, Elverum and Tynset, a few weeks ago. At Tynset, they've actually started having more things – not because there are more things on Tynset, but because they're getting better use of the capacity of the system now, by moving things from Hamar to Tynset. There's a lot of stuff in Hamar and get stuff on Tynset. If you're going to have more judges, it's probably the need for it in Hamar, not in the countryside, where there's not so many things, maybe it's not matters or queues at all. Synergy in being able to cooperate better, as it is now, is very important. So I think it's a little strange that the Council of State and the Central Party and the Workers' Party are almost on principle going to have more judges in the districts if there's no case there. In that case, it should be up to the sorenician of each district to give priority to matters within what is most reasonable to exploit the capacity. It would have been a little exciting to hear what the Center Party really thinks about it. I really hope that the Workers' Party, which I have always seen as a responsible and tidy state party, can put the Center Party a little bit on the school bench here and get the facts into the Center Party with regard to the court structure, because it is repeated here, time and time again, that there is centralization in the case of the courts, and that one is raging the courts. From the representative, Rødby, it was said that there should be a strengthening of the courts, especially in the districts, because they have been deprived in the past. I wonder what reality the Centre Party is in – has previously been down-prioritized? That's wrong. The court administration briefed the judicial committee just a few weeks ago and said that they now moved several cases to Kongswinger from the rest of the region of Rome to make better use of the capacity. Getting more things is not deprioritising – it's prioritizing. There are factual errors from the Center Party, so I hope they will take a little bit of time in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1834	Yes, there is no doubt that the Progress Party and the Center Party look quite differently at the state of things. The aim is that preparedness and security should be essential for us to feel safe. During the Right-leaded government, we experienced a single-tracked focus on moulding lists with quantity rather than quality. The telltale edges were more important than what the community and police professionals said about the reality outside the office walls. The previous Minister of Justice refused to let the police cut, even though the local trustees could tell the local authorities that it was just cutting down their budgets led to. Most of the new jobs were in the Police Directorate. The courts also experienced economic cutbacks, and in criminal custody it was cut in settlements. Right-wing police reform gave a plug in the criminal chain, and more police districts had capacity problems. A lot of things with a known perpetrator were hospitalized. The government of Solberg delivered two things: centralization and degradation. The new Minister of Justice of the Senterpartiet has a completely different focus. From the day one she has been busy meeting and listening to those who are in service for our readiness every day. All in 2022, the justice sector will notice that the Workers' Party-Center Party administration is in place. That's 200 million. kr more to the police than the Right proposed. A whole of 20 new places of service could be put in place as early as next year. The courts get 50 million. kr more than the right proposed. This may contribute to the recruitment of several judges and investment in digitisation, including in smaller courts, and to the possible restoration of important local courts. And to the previous speaker, it's just this that even the smaller courts get the same possibilities that are some of the differences from the previous government. The previous government de-prioritised them less because they had a policy for them to be less laid down anyway. At the same time, we now have a total preparedness committee to look at together. We need to see how fast a pandemic can spread, and communities can be shut down. Proximity, security and trust is what the new government is working for every day. This makes us feel more confident that Norway is on the right track, with the Workers' Party-Center Party government at the head.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1849	One of the best things about Norway is the high trust we have in each other, and the strong community that binds us together. However, increasing inequality, centralisation and privatisation of services have over the last few years led to both a sense of abstinence and increasing frustration in the districts. It is a matter of trust, security and cohesion. A reversal of the court reform of 2021 is very important in this respect. The current interim solution, where the number of rights of property and land change rights was reduced, but continued as a legal entity, is not a sufficient means of ensuring the necessary balance between ensuring legal certainty and maintaining living and viable communities. When the reform was first implemented, it was reaped for obvious reasons a lot of criticism, for the sake of both the security of its citizens, the rapprochement of public services in the districts, the recruitment of lawyers and the presence, to name a few points. In addition, it devastates the districts of legal competence. The judicial reform has always been, and is still, a bad idea – although some argue that we have to calm it down. The supporters of the judicial reform argue that no district court has actually been closed down, but that local management has been moved or divided between several courts. That's wrong. A court is not a district court. On the other hand, the amendment poses a real danger that those courts, which are not the main courts in each of the jurisdictions, are deprived of priority and will therefore in the long term either be perceived as secondary or as being at risk of being closed. Centralising this kind of reform will also affect how resources are prioritised over time. The opening up of this reform and the return to the decentralised organisation of the judiciary have several advantages. It gives the population closeness to the judicial system, it gives jobs of competence in the districts and activity in the local communities. Judicial policy now has as its starting point that we should have strong, independent courts across the country capable of ensuring the highest level of legal certainty for citizens – both now and in the future. There's the Hurdal platform clearly. Now we have to implement it early, so that we can then focus on how we can strengthen the courts in other ways later.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1862	I am very pleased with the Hurdal platform's goal of reversing the court reform that was carried out by the previous government, and I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice is launching the process of giving the old courts the opportunity to become independent again. When you hear representatives fighting for this reform, you get the impression that everything was so vulnerable and small in the past. That's not right, and I want to do one example. Former East-Agder district officer a population of nearly 100,000 people before the reform made this a department of Agder District Court. 100000 inhabitants — it can’t possibly be a small and vulnerable right of property that cannot stand on its own feet as an independent entity. Of course it can. Efficiency was also used as an argument for this reform. Well, East-Agder District Court was a very effective court, which complied with all statutory deadlines. In this debate, there is often talk of trust-chosen people for employees or other interest groups who want centralisation. Then one forgets that the courts are a crucial part of making the rights we have as citizens of a democracy available to everyone. The courts shall ensure that all persons may claim their right or have a case brought before them. In order for the Court to exercise this important function of society, it must exist where people live. The further away from the court is, the more challenging it is for a party to testify in a case or for other reasons to meet physically in the court. For society this can quickly become more expensive because lost labour income and expensive travel expenses will zero any savings achieved by centralisation. The government has given municipalities and other important bodies the opportunity to say their words about the judicial reform. I'm glad, and then we'll listen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1875	The representative Ivar B. Prestbakmo has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1880	If there were any people who were accidentally in the error of having, or being able to have, effective use of judicial resources in the past, this was an opportunity to use judges in other courts even before the reform. So there's nothing new after the reform. Not choosing to use it actively is not an argument in itself for a structural reform. And when more heaven is called for in this political area, I just want to refer to the Hurdal platform. This is not a debate about the snow that fell last year. To quote the Prøysen: ‘You will get a day in the morning that is clean and unused’ [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1887	And soon it's Christmas!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1892	There were just a few comments to the representative Johnsen, who was so very opposed to spending money on judges in the districts. There's reason to explain why it's important, because Johnsen doesn't have the same view of it. We have had some courts up to today, or what the previous government centralized to become a branch office under another court, or courts without local authority, where there have been very few jurisdictions. There's been someone with just one fixed judge, and then there's been several judges as well. The new government then believes that it is an important measure to reduce the vulnerability of these courts that more judges can be recruited, and this will mean that fewer judges can also be appointed. There is an important strengthening of the provision of justice and the availability of justice in the districts, and there will also be some of the concerns raised by the Court of Justice Commission in its review. It's important that we work on how to develop the courts, it's just that the difference between this government and the previous government is that we think centralization is not the answer to all the challenges. We believe that quality improvement, development of competences and division of cases can be done well within the framework that is, with a different structure than the centralised structure, and that is why we want to go back to the previous structure as a starting point. Johnsen also pointed to something else that is important in that context, and that's what he said, that now it's up to the janitor in each of the jurisdictions to distribute the resources between the courts. That's exactly what I think is worrying, for a long time. In this case — most often — one gets the scapegoat who sits at the largest and most central court, who is to rule over the others, and one risks a bottling of resources, for example. from the court of King's wings, which is then ruled by Little Stream, instead of having an independent scapegoat on Kongsvinger. So I'll end with some comments related to children's stuff. A lot of different claims have been made in this case, and one of them is that it sounds like the quality of the courts, especially at least, was bad or not made before. Then I just have to stress that the same demands are made on judges, on both who can be judged, and on the competence requirements of the Court of Justice, regardless of whether a person works in a large court or a small court. For example: The review of the trial period by the National Audit Office is some of the main courts that have had the greatest challenges of trial time. So this has varied regardless of size.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1906	If we have confirmed something through today’s debate – and we have it to the full – it is that the main project of the Central Party in the field of justice is about stopping a reform that is successful. What worries me a lot more is the commitment from SV in this area, and the fact that SV has been given an advantage in order to introduce a so-called receipt scheme for people who have police control in the capital. This is contrary to what is advisable for the police. We in the committee were visiting the police director not so many weeks ago, and I realized that she confirmed that this is challenging. Although I perceived that it would politically be followed up by the Police Directorate – of course – the police director was critical in his mention of introducing a system of receipts. It is about delimitation, and it is not least about how this is actually to be done. It is also not the case – if what we have been presented is true – that some other countries in the world have a corresponding system of receipts, where they receive it on the spot. When police were then so clearly warned against introducing a system, and whose whole – I was saying – motivation helps to create the impression that Norwegian police are systematically racist, then there are at least good reasons to prevent this certification scheme from being implemented by SV. What could be assessed, which the police director has also been involved in, and which sounds reasonable — perhaps — is the introduction of ‘bodycam’, as is the case in some countries, which can help inform matters, even when allegations of police violence are made on a totally false basis. It is sad that SV has got this through with the government parties, that a system of receipts will be, as I have said, a gift package for the gangs and recriminalism in Oslo. It is clear that for the police it will be very problematic. The third, fourth or fifth time you have to stop the same person, the accusations of racism come. Then one will also experience in the public that the accusations are coming, and the police are once again standing back as the loser who gets accusations against him that can in no way be documented or substantiated. It is very regrettable that we have a government that will make it more difficult for the police to carry out their mission.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1923	In today's debate, juvenile delinquency and life-threatening areas have been a topic. I would like to talk about such an area of life that will be heavily affected by decisions that will eventually also be on the table of the Justice Committee. For several years, there have been plans and processes to move Oslo prison, and soon State Building will also come with its new recommendation. There had to be new rounds after the plans to establish the prison on the Bredtvet in Groruddalen met with great local involvement and resistance. In many residential areas of Groruddalen, green areas are a very scarce good. The broad white forest is today the only continuous green area between Trondheimswegen and Ostre Aker road – two of the major motorways that intersect through the valley. The forest is also the only human-friendly link between Kalbakken and Wetvet. Today, the forest is much used by the locals, myself included, and by the kindergartens that keep houses there. The opportunities that one has to experience the local forest with the rich natural life close to the population of the Groruddalen will not be enough if Oslo prisons are moved here. Then essential parts of the forest are built down. That's why the resistance is high, and that's why the plans were put on ice and then after alternatives. The options so far outlined in the media are alternatives that SV considers to be good. Although we now see that representatives from Oslo Arbeiderparti also deviate from previous opinions and decisions in this case, we will not be in SV to give us. Bredwetskogen must be preserved, and we in SV are ready – as we have suggested before – to form a majority in order to improve the settlement conditions of the female prisoners in Bredtvet prison. It cannot depend on building a large prison for men in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1934	The representative, Maria Aasen-Svensrud, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1939	I would like to thank you for the debate. I can understand that the representative, Amundsen, doubts that the current government is changing the course of action and policy of the previous government, since he was one of many ministers of justice. That we're changing course, that maybe the Right still couldn't squeeze out so much of the toothpaste tube that we shouldn't get it back, I'm proud. I am proud that the public sector will once again be strengthened, that we are going out of purposeless target management, and that employees will have time and confidence to do the job. So fast to the representative Kaski: now we see what Statsbyggen is saying. If the demands to care for the forest meet the need for a new prison for women and men in Oslo, it must be very interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1948	The representative of Mr Wetrhus Thorsvik has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1953	I would like to address some of the claims that have come from the followers of the reversal of the judicial reform. There will be no longer travel, the cases are still dealt with as a general rule by the nearest court, e.g. where the criminal act has been committed. The judges are moving. This is not a centralisation reform – on the contrary. Children's matters require special competence; they are underlined by the Children's Ombudsman and others. The 2017 Special Court Committee recommended that children’s cases be brought together in selected courts, precisely because that specialisation is so important. Minor dishes therefore account for 30-40 pst. of all the children's affairs. I believe that this reform has saved several of the smaller places, because so many things would have fallen if you had maintained it as it has been. I have worked as a lawyer myself, and I have seen how difficult it is for people to wait for their case to come up, whether it is a party to a civil case, offended or accused in criminal proceedings. The judicial reform is good in all areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1962	The representative, Mr André Johnsen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1967	I hear the Minister of Justice talking again about getting more judges in the districts. It may be positive, but then you have to have things. I still don't understand. I think it is a little strange that the Centre Party and the Workers' Party also do not understand that it is perhaps wise to continue a system that works, and that the sorenprinter himself can make the best possible use of the capacity between the various courts. Then I hear the minister say that we are at risk of depletion of resources, and show among other things. to Kongswinger. The fact is, this is visualization and empty campaign horror propaganda from the Center Party that doesn't have root in reality. It's a little frustrating when you have a government and a debate here in Stortinget that's not at all fact-based. In fact, we have moved more things to Kongswinger and also to Tynset – which is just district. You actually reinforce the smaller courts with the change that has been made. It's not about centralization, it's the opposite of centralization.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1974	The representative, Mr Gunaratnam, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1979	I hear there is a lot of critical thinking about the receipt arrangements. I just thought I should ask the hall to think a little bit about that we have a weakened confidence from youth in many places, and that should mean something to us sitting here. There are often young boys with a minority background, insecure in their body and skin color. It should mean something to us that they do not feel a trust in the police. This is a pilot scheme. It's a pilot scheme, and we have the opportunity to shape it with our professionals and try it out, so we can get along with the confidence of young people. Can't we try this out?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1984	This is not my committee or a budget for which I am responsible, but I cannot leave the Left and the Progressive Party undisputed at the end here. How this is practised obviously varies a lot from court to court, and you can't stand here and generalize and say that this is successful. In my court, what is then called the Western Inland, we have learned that cases can be moved from the nearest court because the judges do not want to travel. We have also learned that digital solutions have made the trial move because there are no solutions in the local and nearest court. What I think is scary, is how voices that are opposed to the reform, almost getting tired of it because of the overwhelming majority of judges in major courts who say that this is just good. This isn't just good. It's obvious that it's about what kind of perspective you have. In the sample presenting the changes, the small courts were not represented. And what about the right to change? There are a lot of questions here that I believe have been dealt with by the previous government with left-handed work. We are also told directly that there are consequences to exclusive matters, and where the police have to spend a lot of time and resources driving people who are going to court, who are going to witness or otherwise contribute. It would have been much more cost-effective to actually use the local courts, so that the police could spend their time on police work, not on transport to the more central courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1992	I really just wanted to thank the Committee for a good and engaging debate. That promises the new Judicial Committee in terms of continuing debate when we arrive at the new year. This is the last thing we're dealing with before Christmas, so there might be a reason at least to want the committee to have a really good Christmas, and then I expect us to take this commitment further into debates for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e1999	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e2012	The size is ready to go to voting on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e2024	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Ine Eriksen Soreide on behalf of the Right, Left and Christian Party proposal No 3, from Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the use of available instruments to ensure that Norwegian funds support education in Palestinian schools that are ethically sound and provide a basis for peaceful coexistence and tolerance for future generations in the region.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e2048	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, Left and Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that unused funds from Norway’s military involvement in Afghanistan in 2022 are earmarked for strengthening the cyber defence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e2063	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Left and Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set up an Innovation Office for Global Health in Oslo.’ [[Global Health Innovation Hub]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e5076	Behind the advice is the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Red Party, the Left Party, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e5097	The President makes a note of a typing error in the configuration. On top. 3005, entry 2 Reimbursements, etc. the appropriate amount shall be 3 million. kr. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e5967	Behind the advice is the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. Red and the Green Party have announced support for the vote. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e6919	During the debate, Ingrid Fiskaa has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking through ACT-A and Covax to step up efforts to prioritize deliveries of vaccines to Covax by pharmaceutical companies and to promote the implementation of principles of transparency at all stages, but in particular contracts concluded with pharmaceutical companies.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e7735	During the debate, Mr Thorsvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a follow-up to NOU 2020: 5 Similarity to the law at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2022.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e10214	Behind the advice is the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Red Party, the Left Party, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-15.ana.ud193e11520	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
