ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e57	The President will propose that the public gallery be closed during today's meeting, and it is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e75	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e82	We have proposals from the major representatives of Bjørnstad, Strifeldt, Halleland, Steffensen and Njåstad to ensure a more comprehensive management of the marine environment, and it is suggested that they want it according to the oil and gas sector model. The Committee initially points out that the oil and gas sector actually has several administrative authorities, as well as that part of the production costs of salmon and trout has had a significant increase in the last ten years, and that this is well documented and seems to be the main cause of the decline in productivity. These are among several aspects pointed out in the Committee's opinion. The marine industry is among the largest and most valuable forms of food production in Norway. It has great growth potential, but in any case one must take into account the resilience of nature. We also believe that any creation of a new administrative body is not the way to go. It will not be able to contribute to the simplification of the industry’s meeting with the Norwegian authorities. On the contrary, there will be enough actors to deal with, both for industry itself and for other authorities. These are challenges that we are responding to, in relation to what is from the proposers. Then it's not going to come from the fact that the proposers also have some good moments in their proposal. Among other things, they point to the trombone layer model, which has shown that coordination is possible, and where there has also been a high degree of efficiency. The results of this may indicate that the time taken to deal with the problem has fallen slightly and that coordination has improved. Of course, these are things that can be further processed, as I also mean, but we're in the process of a strategy for that, and then, in my opinion, it's most natural to take it there. The farming industry is important, but it also presents not least some challenges that the industry needs to address. Among the challenges are the adaptation of rearing rules to ensure sustainable solutions that also cater for the wild species. Strict requirements for better animal welfare in the farming industry still need to be maintained and a focus on research and technology development needs to be put in place. We have to stick to the basic principles in the case of wild fish, even if it does not have a direct bearing on this matter, with the participation law, the Fish Sale Act and the Sea Resource Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e97	It has been discussed for a long time that the management of aquaculture is too fragmented – there is no new discussion. And there is no doubt that what the proposers address in the proposal is a real issue, and that there are challenges there. Then we have to try to straighten out the business environment in the best possible way. Marine farming, farming and the opportunities for the future that lie there are important future industries for Norway. Then there is a need for us to take seriously the signals coming from the industry. We believe very clearly that there is a need for a review, and that there is a need to look at the possibilities for a more comprehensive and more efficient management of aquaculture – precisely because it is important to take the signals provided by the industry itself, in a proper way, and to ensure that we also manage to address the opportunities for the developments that are there. For the Workers' Party, it's important that we do it. But we believe that it is wrong to draw a conclusion now that it is the oil and gas sector, we should say, management frameworks that are supposed to form the right picture for this. We think it's right to have an investigation and come back to Stortinget – preferably through a big message, which the Workers' Party has addressed in the past – and get a picture of the future and a framework for the aquaculture industry that puts this into perspective. For us, it's important to signal that we want this direction on it. We therefore, together with the Central Party and the Socialist Left, have two own proposals which I really hope will be able to have a majority at the end of voting on this matter. I hope that the Progress Party will also see that it will make sense finally to vote in favour of those proposals, so that we get a new case on the table on a more comprehensive and efficient management of aquaculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e106	The representative of Terje Aasland has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e111	Marine farming is one of Norway’s most important industries. Aquaculture has had an approximate quadruple in the export value from 2007 to 2018 and has grown significantly faster than other export industries during that period. It is now the second largest export industry in the country. Marine farming is also an important job in districts and has the potential to grow even more. The Progress Party believes that aquaculture has a bright future in Norway. The main obstacle to growth is, as in many other industries, a major public bureaucracy. The industry must relate to six different departments, nine different sectoral laws, three levels of administration and no less than 23 different supervisory bodies. It does not exactly contribute to a good framework for growth. Marine farming is a complex industry. It requires high-level technology and constant development of knowledge and operating methods. This requires an administration with sufficient resources and a high level of competence and an ability to see the industry as a whole. Today's management is bad enough to meet the needs of the industry. We have examples of different practices of coastal legislation, partly based on different knowledge of different administrative bodies and different case handlers. The operators of the aquaculture industry express that the meeting with the administration is a young boy with overlapping responsibilities and conflicting rules and is still complicated. Marine farming has become a global industry, and farming companies have become international. They are not given to stay in Norway. We therefore have to work to ensure that aquaculture continues to be attractive here. In a meeting with a local breeding plant, they could tell about their frustration over the difficulties of, and the bureaucracy of, moving a feed fleet from one place to another. In such a process, they must relate to seven different instances, including: counties are among the estrangements. It is necessary to simplify the movement of a feed fleet which does not present any difference in impact on the environment. Such bureaucracy prevents the creation of value. The Progress Party believes it is time to simplify and streamline the management of aquaculture. It will be natural to look at how the Norwegian oil and gas sector was organised and to see if there is a possibility of transferring the positive experience to the aquaculture sector. In the early 2000s, an experiment was made called the stockpiling model, where management in the aquaculture sector was combined and streamlined. The results of this show that the time taken to deal with the problem fell, that coordination improved, and that public resources were better exploited. Nor is there any indication that the quality of the administration has deteriorated. I note that the red-green opposition is promoting an almost equivalent proposal like ours. Finally, I would like to address the proposal of the Progress Party in the matter, and I would like to point out that we are voting in a subsidiary way in favour of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e130	The representative Bengt Rune Strifeldt has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e135	The aquaculture industry is a major and important industry for our country. The industry has had a strong cost growth, and the Centre Party shares the reality description given in the proposal for a representative. The current management of the aquaculture industry is complex. This may be time-consuming, resource-consuming and not transparent for the actors, and the Centre agrees with the proposers that a more comprehensive and efficient management of aquaculture may be needed. While industry is important for exports, value creation and coastal workplaces, there is also a significant impact on the environment. Any improvement in efficiency must take place in ways that safeguard the public interest, and it is a central point that administrative efficiency should not lead to other interests not being heard in different processes. Breeding is characterised by the increasing size and power of the big ones. The major players will always be able to deal with new rules and requirements. Small breeders will have bigger problems with that. The regulatory framework can therefore indirectly contribute to the structuring of major actors. The Centre Party, together with the SV and the Workers' Party, is therefore promoting its own proposal to ensure that the legislation is not designed in such a way as to speed up progress towards fewer and larger companies. It can be seen that the proposers are looking to set up their own directorate responsible for breeding, even if this is not clear from the proposal. The centre party is critical that another administrative body is the solution to combat bureaucracy. The proposers wish in their proposal to have the oil and gas industry as a model for management. The centre party considers that petroleum and fish farming are significantly different and therefore need different regulation and therefore does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e146	The representative, Strifeldt, actually gave the key to why this is a bad proposal. As he points out, agriculture and farming are a complex industry. Thus, there are also complex assessments – it is not such that there is only one directorate or one instance that should take one particular interest, which can make the complex assessments linked to it. What I am saying about the proposal for a representative is: why should a special track make this kind of track for this industry? We're facing giant developments at sea. Many of the most fundamental prospects we have as a nation, are linked to the sea, whether it's sea wind, carbon capture and storage, variants of the development of future shipping, mineral extraction or hydrogen production, and we already have oil and gas, fishing and farming. We are faced with a way of thinking about the sea, a kind of industrialization of the sea, which we have never been away from before. Why should one then make special tracks – yes, approximately give precedence – for one industry? The whole point must be to see the whole sea and the management of the sea even more in one place, so why should a single industry which is likely to receive dispensations of different kinds, where different types of concern are not so important? That must be the reality of the proposal. It seems to me to be a question that is attached to that proposal there: why only aquaculture when one is faced with so many other industries that want to move out on our common public? The SV's starting point for the aquaculture industry is that we should get the highest possible value from our common public, to the most possible, as far as possible. At the same time, there is both a very strong environmental perspective and an important distribution perspective – we will create a distribution of the use of our common public. Our goal is a zero-pollutant industry, full use of biomass and where we are self-sufficient in feed, i.e. a more circular way of looking at the industry. When I'm in contact with the industry, they're quite a few in that direction, but we're probably at a different pace. There I think, when it comes to the problem, that the inconsistency is also reflected here in the hall. We're certain that we're going to move towards full use of biomass, zero emissions of pollution in the sea and self-sufficiency of feed, but the big disagreements are about the pace and how one gets there. Someone thinks that the industry is on its way to you by itself. We don't mean that in SV, we think that here there must be clear regulation to both create opportunities and not least to spare the generalization that we all depend on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e157	The government has great ambitions on behalf of the Norwegian aquaculture industry, and we are constantly assessing whether the framework conditions under which the Norwegian farming industry operates can be improved. This also applies to the management of the aquaculture industry. I therefore agree with the good intentions of the draft representative on simplification. As I see it, a major objection to today's management seems to be that the aquaculture industry has to deal with fragmented management, while in the oil and gas sector there is stronger coordination. Seafood Norway, in its consultation exercise, pointed out that the absence of a single body — which has legal and actual competence to make an overall assessment of the different considerations — is unfortunate. However, I am not convinced that it is right to compare the aquaculture industry with the oil and gas sector. Aquaculture is mainly located near the coast where land interests — and contrasts — are greater than at sea. In addition, food production in aquaculture is high, which means that the width to be taken into account is high. It has not been stated that these considerations are best addressed by bringing together as much management as possible under one roof. There is room for improvement, of course, and I therefore believe it is important to consider measures that can contribute to a more efficient and comprehensive management of aquaculture. For example, I might mention that there is a cooperation between industry and authorities in the form of OPS Seafood – Value Chain Marines, which serves, among other things. to simplify and streamline the exchange of information and data between industries and different authorities. Other examples are that the Directorate of Fisheries has started to develop a common digital solution for the treatment of applications across departments and administrative areas. We have also set up a separate working group consisting of only breeders – who have their boots on – who have been asked to make proposals for simplification in the legislation on aquaculture. This type of action will normally be easier to implement than major administrative reorganisations. And if there's to be a major change in government, it must at least be based on thorough investigations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e168	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e174	I was mentally ordered that I should not be the first – and at least that those behind the proposal for a representative took the floor. Just to get the Council of State to expand on a little bit of its answer, it's called for you to bring this industry together under one roof. But then there are many other industries at sea that, if this industry gets under one roof, maybe also will be collected under one roof. Then get one roof for shipping, one roof for CCS, one roof for floating sea winds, and one roof for hydrogen production. Is this an absurd development, or can it have anything to do with making many different types of roofs, many different directorates – as proposed by the representative – to preserve sectoral interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e179	I'm very concerned that we're going to have effective management. In marine farming in particular, we need to recognise that it is important that we have sufficient bureaucracy and legislation to address biological concerns, such as: It is particularly important if we are to have a sustainable development of the industry and to have profitability and activity over time. You can see, for example: that when we are to have new industries out in the sea, challenging existing industries, there is a need to coordinate the different interests so that we get the best possible socio-economic result from them – and also a sustainable result. I just want to conclude by saying that there is a need to clarify these questions. I partly agree with what the representative illustrates with the question, that there are many different interests, so there is a need for coordination. There is a question of whether it is right to solve that problem by setting up another public body.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e184	Just to pull that line of thought forward: we have challenges in that we assume that we think too little of the evolution of the sea already, that there are too strict booths when a developer of the seas. Among other things, for sea winds, there is no administrative regime for which there are clear rules on how the various concerns should be addressed. This means that it is from an application to an application. There is a rumor that one might get something from the energy message, which comes at the beginning of June, but this is currently unclear for Stortinget. How has the portfolio of the Minister of Fisheries been involved in the development of a maritime wind management regime, so that one can see this as a whole?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e191	We have been well involved in the work, together with the Ministry of Oil and Energy at the office level. There have also been some political discussions, because it is about getting into – I think the word ‘coexistence’ is a little bad; perhaps you could rather use the word ‘cohabitation’. It should be a good partnership with different industries, taking into account existing fisheries against new industries that want to establish themselves at sea and getting good and predictable rules of play. I think it's important in itself that we have processes. It will necessarily make things take some time, so that everyone is heard and all considerations are balanced before making decisions. Hopefully, the Energy Communication will also point to some of the issues and get what the representative asks about, on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e196	The fact that we have a forward-looking management system for important industries in Norway is essential. And I think in a way that the Council of State in its statement admits that something needs to be done within the management of the aquaculture sector just to adapt it to the future – something that the industry needs. The important thing to see here in Stortinget is what I thought I heard the Council of State say – if I heard correctly – that there is a need for more comprehensive and efficient management of aquaculture. Then my question is, Is there a request from the Government Council to the Government Parties to vote in favour of the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, and SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e201	I will not interfere so directly with the issue of Stortinget, although I suggested that I sympathise with the intention of the proposals made by the proposers – and in particular the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV. I think it's important that we focus on – and that we focus on in everyday life – to achieve the most effective management possible, but at the same time meet the sustainability and biological challenges facing this industry. We have implemented some simplification measures, including: getting the breeders themselves to come up with the low-hanging fruits we can do something with fast, while what is being taken up here today is a slightly longer process. But we must constantly focus on simplification, coordination, as much equal practices from the administration around the country, etc. I experience in Stortinget that there is really quite a broad consensus around the direction of the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e206	At least no one disagrees that we want sustainable development, but in order to achieve a good, sustainable development in an important industry for the future, it may be right that we should have more consistent and efficient management of aquaculture. And to do that, so that it provides a framework for enthusiasm and the basis for investment, efficiency, etc. in the industry, it is important that the Stortinget be involved, that broad solutions are provided in the Stortinget for how to do so. And then I think the Council of State lacks commitment and initiative. Then it would be wise for the government parties to vote in favour of the proposal from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, so that we put a little more commitment to the Council of State. I just want to confirm once again that there is a call from the Government Council to the Government Parties to vote in favour of the proposal from the minority in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e213	I can't give any such encouragement. Representatives from the government parties may have to answer for themselves, but I do not feel that there is any very big disagreement in the room. When I'm criticized for having little initiative, I think we've implemented a lot of things around the industry. We come up with an aquaculture strategy, where there will also be things that it's natural to bring on to the Storting. It has criticised the opposition, and especially the Workers' Party, that it has not been taken to the Stortinget. We're doing it this way to get the process going and put it on, so things won't take too long. It is also important that we now further develop the traffic lighting system. I have much more faith in it – now we have set in motion an expert committee to make proposals and evaluate how it has worked – and that we are making it a predictable system for the biological and sustainable development of the industry. Today there is only one criterion, which is lice, but it may be possible to find other criteria gradually. But it's a very important foundation for further growth in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e220	A comprehensive and efficient management of aquaculture must be a central element of a marine management strategy. My question is: what is the reason why the government does not want to involve Stortinget and present an aquaculture strategy to the Stortinget for such an important and significant future industry for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e225	We have involved and had a number of engagement meetings with the industry, with environmental organisations and with non-governmental organisations along the coast. We've got a lot of good input. I really see the criticism of the opposition as a sincere desire to be directly involved in the debate, but it would take some extra time to present a big message. We want to get ahead of the process, so that the administration becomes up-to-date and more up-to-date with an industry that is in decline. So it's natural to come to the Stortinget with things in retrospect as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e230	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e236	The government parties are not hard-heard. Otherwise, I think the representative of Knag Fylkesnes had a good reply with the Council of State. In fact, in a whole plan, you also have to evaluate a lot of units around, as the Council of State also replied. But in order to clarify, the government parties will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e243	First of all, I think the debate here has shown that there is a need for more comprehensive and efficient management of aquaculture and that recognition comes from the Council of State. I think it would be a strength if the Storting together could decide that one wants to get such a type of review back to Stortinget. I also think there would be a great strength in one after eight years with today's government had been presented with the marine strategy in a communication to the Stortinget, and that the Stortinget could take up the discussions that are about both sustainable development, sustainable management, efficient solutions, etc., so that one got up with the marine debate that such a future industry actually deserves. I am unable with my best will to understand why the government cannot present it to the Storting and just get the whole treatment. Because I think what we are hoping for is a positive development, that one should be able to increase production, but within a sustainable framework, and that one in connection with this should be able to facilitate good investment and a value creation that is distributed from the coast, etc. It is then clear that anchoring this in the Biggest, finding broad, good solutions for just such a basis, is good industrial policy and good aquaculture policy. That is why I cannot understand why the Council of State does not want to involve the Stortinge in the strategy and also be clear to its opinions in the government parties that it is right and important that a vote for the proposal promoted by the minority be given a review and a case before the Stortinge on a comprehensive and efficient management of aquaculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e250	It's actually the last Aasland says, I think it's important: whole-hearted and effective. ‘Uniform’ was said in a previous post from Aasland. That's where I think you have to distinguish very much between what's holistic and what's the monotonous management of the aquaculture industry. In any case, there is no SV behind the proposal in that way, one here is going to get one directorate to deal with all the different types of concerns related to aquaculture, and make proposals for that decision. Then we're dealing with an absurd way of thinking about administration. Of course, we're all happy with effective management, we all want to have it gone if there's noise bureaucracy around. There's no one on Stortinget who wants to maintain anything like that. But then the question is, how are they going to override the limits for the management of the sea? The sea – there are lots of actors, there are more and more actors. The need for holistic marine management in general is becoming more and more precarious. As we had a round here in the line exchange, I'm concerned about the development of new industries at sea, that it's far too small to be part of a holistic management of aquaculture, and that one might have more of such an application trail, where one takes different types of perspectives from the different ones. No administration regime for the sea. Ideally, a broader management regime should be established for all marine industries, where one is given clarifications in advance, before one starts applying, so that one does not get the kind of conflicts that one has received, whether it is on the outside of the Dark Coast or as we had when it was tobis, with oil drilling, etc., etc. There's kind of an application-made conflict. Established a regime of maps, clarifications, spatial plans, etc. At sea, where different actors are involved, there will be much more plentiful for all operators at sea. We are missing that today, and that leads to a lot of conflicts at sea. I think having a unique management system, where a completely own special track for farming, just farming and oil, not for mineral extraction or shipping or sea wind or all the others, will create a completely impossible situation. What we need is more holistic management, no more unanimity management.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e261	I take the floor to say that, as part of the government fraction, we are going to vote in favour of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox It's probably right to say that there's a little different perception of what's meant, and what's behind the rationale of proposal no. 1st@item: inlistbox I think you should respect that in the further work on it, too, that there is enough tension in how a weight is both holistic, consistent and effective in relation to each other. With this proposal, a number of clarifications are needed. I do not react to the first presentation of a strategy. We have had an aquaculture message in 2015, which was dealt with in 2016, which is not very old. If it turns out that there is a need for a complete new message, I expect it to be signalled in the context of the aquaculture strategy. In many cases, the measures taken by the marine management strategy will necessarily come to the Storting. We're going to support this proposal, but that's enough, as I said, a little bit of tension in the reason why a guy supports it. One of the reasons why we support it is that we see developments in aquaculture, in terms of both seaweed and seaweed, i.e. local species, and other species, making management different depending on where the plant is located. Responsibilities will vary depending on whether they are located within the Municipal Plan Area or outside the Municipal Plan Area, within the baseline or outside the baseline, in the economic zone or within territorial waters, in the light of the new projects we have with seagoing mermaids. Then it may be reasonable to look at the administration independently of the simplification potential, but in any case in some way, as the representative of Knag Fylkesnes said, that there is an overall approach to the challenges it will provide, regardless of which of these zones it is in, and look at how to resolve it. It does not make sense, in the Norwegian administration at least, to imagine that measures are being treated on a completely different scale depending on the number of metres from the marquee they are lying. That's a good reason, I mean, to look at this, just because these things are happening now, and are going to happen to a greater extent in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e270	I just want to say that this with simplification I feel that the hall is very busy that you are going to get to, on behalf of the industry. Then everyone understands that some rules have to be that too, but it's about doing not having too much, but enough. So there's multiple ways to this goal. Today, the majority of us are going to be able to get a closer look and get back to what's going to take care of a whole. There is no doubt that the industry has to deal with very many different authorities at different levels. While the work is going on, we're also going to work to simplify things in everyday life. Low-hanging fruits are also available for simplification measures. I very much believe that the project to be undertaken in cooperation with the industry and the authorities of OPS aquaculture will come up with good proposals for simplification that can be implemented quickly. This with the feed fleet was specifically mentioned in one of the submissions. There is already work going on to facilitate the movement of feed fleets. The solution is to increase the height of the step before you have to have a new location cleared. Now, when we present that strategy before the summer, according to the plan, it's natural that the Storting is also involved in parts of it gradually. And as mentioned, a big message was presented in 2015–2016, so we thought it was natural to follow it up with a strategy to get it updated to the current situation. This is an industry that has great growth potential, provided that we also solve the sustainability challenges. It's very important to bring it with you. We see that customers outside the world require evidence of sustainability. I think the industry has come to realize that if we are to continue to supply healthy Norwegian seafood, we also need to be able to prove that we produce this sustainably, and we still have challenges again. We'll probably have in 20 years, too, but we have to deal with those challenges, and I also feel that the industry itself is busy doing that. It also includes further developing the traffic light system, and we are now meeting the proposals of the expert committee, which can see if there are other objective and good criteria we can use for growth growth. We have put an end to accepting new applications for special permits. It was a surprise to see that as much as 192 000 tons of salmon are actually standing in the sea, and there are given different types of special permits, all of which have good purposes, everything from viewing to teaching and so on. But there is a need to go through the arrangement of the special authorisation system. It is natural that it is addressed in the strategy. It's a great industry, where it's full of locally owned family businesses that want to keep up their efforts – a great starting point for the coast and district Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e297	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e306	The Ministry of Justice and Defence proposes changes to the police and foreign law in the proposal. The Police Register Act proposes to extend the work area to Section 3 to include military police, and to legislate a regulatory secret to provide more detailed rules for the handling of information by the military police for police purposes. The other changes in police records laws are considered to be clarifications of the current law. It is suggested to indicate that DNA profiles can only be used in criminal justice, and that a record of fingerprints and photographs of people with unknown identity may be kept when one suspects that the data may be associated with an unsolved criminal case. The rules on background control make it clear that police attestations for EEA citizens can only be obtained from their home country in the cases of demand for butid, and that cases involving withdrawal and loss of right to drive, for example, are not to be shown on the ordinary police record, nor are judgments where punishment is not measured, so-called non-criminal measure. Furthermore, it is proposed to clarify the extent of the data subject’s right to complain to the Data Protection Authority and the subject of privacy and to indicate that a refusal of access to public law by the Police Security Service cannot be challenged, with a corresponding regulatory secret. Otherwise, I refer to the committee position and the comments there, and thank the Committee for the cooperation for a busy time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e321	The Labour Party supports the proposals contained in the proposal, but I think it is regrettable that the part dealing with the Foreign Affairs Act. not submitted to the Municipal Committee. The members of the Committee from the Labour Party believe it is important that an independent Supervisory Board be set up and show, among other things. to the NIM audio recording, which supports the need for it. Nevertheless, I would just like to point out what we are writing in our remarks, that we believe that this proposal will require increased capacity at Trandum. We have received feedback that there is not enough capacity at Trandum today in view of the tasks described in the proposition, so we have suggested that the government will strengthen the capacity, so that the new tasks added to Trandum can be implemented. I take up the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e330	The representative, Lene Wagslid, has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e335	This case gives us the opportunity to discuss and propose improvements to the monitoring of forced return, and that's what I'm going to use my post to talk a little about. I fully agree with the government's intention that we should put in place a better monitoring mechanism for forced return. We think it's good. It is also the case that people who are going to be forced to return are exposed to a very vulnerable situation with regard to human rights. There are vulnerabilities related to both human rights violations, the use of power and the management of family situations, decisions, etc., and there may also be health and mental conditions that make this a vulnerable situation. Very vulnerable to human rights violations are not least the very handover from the Norwegian authorities to all the authorities of the recipient countries. In these situations, there are often human rights violations, so it is important that we put in place a good monitoring mechanism. We do not think, however, that the proposal is good enough. We have rewritten that in our remark, and we also have a loose proposal that deals with this. We believe that a monitoring mechanism must be more in line with the monitoring mechanisms we find within the European Convention on Human Rights and within the United Nations system, with a clearer requirement for independence. In other words, the Board of Supervisors which is to carry out such monitoring shall be able to decide for themselves the matters to be addressed and shall not be entrusted with tasks by other authorities. We also believe that it is necessary to clarify the tasks and mandate of this Board of Supervisors, in particular with regard to the tasks related to Frontex. We also believe that the need for resources needs needs to be clarified better, to what extent we also need a separate secretariat for this, precisely because these are difficult and demanding situations. It is a bit today that this proposal adds to a bow-and-oat bag situation, where it is the department that appoints both leaders and vice-leaders and the entire package in the Board of Supervisors. So it's very dependent on who appoints them. At the same time, the Department is responsible for the Foreign Affairs Department and the operation of Trandum. The very structure of this does not allow for a sufficient degree of independence, and we are afraid that those tasks and intentions in them, namely to secure the rights of those who have been forced to return, will not be properly cared for. So the aim of our proposal is to say that, on the one hand, we support the intention, but that we believe that this is not well enough established with a view to getting better independence into it, with the aim of strengthening the rights of those who are to be forced to return. With that, I'm submitting SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e352	The representative Petter Eide has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e357	I do not believe that there is any major disagreement that we need to have proper rules, overview and supervision. This is not where the problem lies. However, I must agree, to the extent that this matter could have been brought to the attention of the Municipal Committee, which, after all, is responsible for the Foreign Affairs Act in the Grand Duchy. When I chose to draw, it's because I feel that especially the Socialist Left Party and other parties on the left-hand side choose to formulate themselves in such a way that those who are returned appear to be kind of innocent victims. It's with respect to not reporting correctly. When you do not meet the conditions for stay in Norway and have to be returned, it is just a fact. Then it's not because you're in a particularly vulnerable group, which I think the representative of the Socialist Left said five times. That's because we have some rules to deal with. They have to be the same for everyone. Either you meet the requirements set out in the Foreign Affairs Act, with the corresponding regulations and practices that apply, or you don't. And if you can be returned by force, you will be returned by force. This is not very complicated, but I choose to ask some questions by trying in any way to make people poorer, not entitled to stay and return to their country of origin. That's actually the way the rules are, the way the rules should be. Of course, we need to make sure that this happens properly, but you can't assume that everyone is vulnerable. It's also those who try to abuse the system. There are some pretty familiar relationships. I would therefore like to see a more realistic approach to this discussion and debate. Anyway, the progress party supports the proposition and is behind the setting, so it's completely unproblematic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e368	I am pleased that an overall committee agrees with the government's proposal for changes to the Police Register Act and that a majority supports the proposal for changes to the Foreign Affairs Act. It is proposed, inter alia: the police records law shall also apply to military police, so that the processing of information by military police is better regulated. The other amendments to the Police Register Act are considered to clarify the applicable law. The minority notes relate to the proposal to legislate that the Board of Supervisors of Transdum Police Internativity should also supervise forced return. It is already apparent from the Foreign Affairs Act that the Board of Supervisors is independent. The Ministry asks relevant organisations for proposals to the Board of Supervisors. These appointments will, of course, also follow the gender balance and geographical balance rules and guidelines of government governance, advice and selection. What is new is that it is statutory for the Board of Supervisors to supervise forced returns and that the supervisory competence includes specially organised accommodation locations. Detailed rules on this shall be laid down in the Regulation, and in this respect all hearings will be considered, including the issues addressed by the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e379	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e396	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e413	I'm gonna be very short. This is a matter for which there is complete openness in the Committee. It is about facilitating the electronic signing of decisions, court settlements and legal books, the signing of record books, electronic service, etc. There is a lot based on the experience that has been gained during the pandemic, that it is actually possible to apply digital solutions in a completely different way than has been done in the justice sector. So that's good -- that's a unanimous committee. You can't say that something good has come out of this pandemic, but if there's something we can bring with us, it's that we might have learned that when it comes to the use of digital tools, there's more room for it. It makes us more effective, it makes us more precise, and it's just for good.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e420	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e437	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e444	It's a rare opportunity to stand on this pulpit and proclaim a joyful cause like this, for this is really a joyous thing. It's a happy case for North Norway, it's a happy case for Troms, my constituency, and it's a happy case for Tromsø. Because the proposition that the government has put forward is that we should establish a seventh rescue helicopter base in Tromsø – and also the continuation of the Sysselmann helicopter service. There is one thing that has been done well in the sitting government, which now bears fruit. It is a strength for Norwegian rescue work that we finally get it in place. I would like to – but I have to regret that this is not the case – that there was an overall committee that was behind the recommendation. It is a broad majority who support the government's proposal and who also make a further clarification, which is also important, for all parties minus the Central Party support the government's proposal, and a decision has also been taken here in Stortinget, which is about starting the necessary preparations to ensure that the defence takes over as the operator of the rescue helicopter base in Tromsø when the contract with the civil operator expires. That's good, because that means we can use the new helicopters and use the Defense also in Tromsø, which is the normal and what you're looking for at the other rescue helicopters. But it's clear that when you want to establish it as quickly as you actually do – you get to an establishment already next year, in 2022 – it's not possible to use the Defense for it. Then, first of all, you have to use civilians. What is decided in the Storting will mean that when that agreement expires, you will use the Defense for the future. Then it also means purchasing new rescue helicopters of type AW101 SAR Queen, which is then stationed in Tromsø when the contract expires. It is important for me to point out that unlike some of these people might have made it in the media, as if the fact that in the early days you get private people delivering rescue helicopter service from Tromsø, is a kind of b-solution, is with respect to reporting errors. You have good experiences. Good quality is provided in the work that we do where we have used privately, e.g. in Florø and also on Svalbard, so here's no reason to say that it's a b solution. I think it's a little important to express it from this pulpit, because I think maybe some of the people who are behind and deliver the private solutions, think of the claims that have been made, as a little bit unfair. Here, there is a large majority behind the vote. I think it is a little sad that the Central Party does not support the proposition, does not support the majority in the proposal that we should use the Defence when the contract period is over. Instead, what the centre party has done is to make a few minority proposals which are very small commitments, which do not mean that it would point to the appropriations and commit itself to making the appropriations needed to put in place the private contract. So here the Center Party is missing, but it is nevertheless a majority that is broad, with the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party, which make sure that this becomes a reality. Let me add: this has also been working pretty fast. In 2017, I started that work, when I was Minister of Justice, and started the investigations that had to be carried out. We had a Minister of Social Security, Ingvil Smines Tybring-Gjedde, who worked hard to get this in place, and now, finally, Justice Minister Monica Meland delivers on this matter. The government has done a good job. The red-greens never saw the need to create a rescue helicopter base in Tromsø, that's a fact. Now we get it, but it's the bourgeois parties that make sure that that happens. But it's a happy day.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e457	Today, the Storting makes two important decisions. First, it is that a rescue helicopter base should be installed in Tromsø – civilly driven – and it may be in place from 2022. The second decision is that the majority in Stortinget says that the defence will take over as an operator when the contract with the civil operator expires. These are important decisions, and I would like to thank the majority of the Committee on Good Cooperation in this matter. For the Workers' Party, people's security is the most important thing. That's why we're very pleased that there's now a rescue helicopter base in Tromsø. It has been described for many years that there has been a black hole in the preparedness between Bodø and Banak, where the other two State rescue helicopters are located. With increased activity in the north, difficult climatic weather conditions, much of the time and the government's participation in the removal of part of the Bell helicopters from Bardufoss, it has been important to put this base in place. The Workers' Party wanted the base to be operated by the Defense and the 330-square with the SAR Queen helicopters from day one. But it is also important for the Workers' Party that we now say that the defence will take over when the contract with the civil operator expires. So the government and the Progress Party have for a long time confirmed that this base should be started up civilly driven. The last time it was fixed in the state budget for 2021. Now, with a decision in Stortinget today, it would be too late to give the 330-square job. In addition, there would have been considerable costs associated with it and improvements that would have to be put in place before that is possible. The fact that it is now established that it will become State-owned in the long term is gratifying. The working party could not accept a single day's postponement of the base in Tromsø. Various proposals have appeared in the media in this matter. Some of them would lead to greater uncertainty, a risk that the contract would have to be renegotiated or terminated, and therefore also a postponement of when the base had been put in place. It would not have been acceptable for the Workers' Party. We believe it is important that the 330s quadron and the defense take over in the long term. These include: because State rescue helicopters may perform a mission other than that of civilians. And as we refer to in the comments: the State rescue helicopters have a central role in terms of maritime counter-terrorism, among other things. in relation to ships and offshore installations. The State rescue services regularly train with the Special Command of the Defense and the police emergency services on various missions. This competence and possibility will not be able to offer a private helicopter. As I said, we are pleased that today we reach an important agreement that the base in Tromsø will be in place from 2022, without any delay, and that the defence as an operator will take over when the civil contract expires. Finally, I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that the Labour Party will also vote in favour of the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Centre Party, which we consider to be an emphasis on the two majority decisions in the recommendation and not in conflict with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e476	This is an important and good day for everyone who lives in Troms and in North Norway or else. We have to admit that the inhabitants of the north over time have had a lower capacity of rescue helicopters than the inhabitants of the rest of the country. Demanding climatic conditions, long distances and long periods of darkness make preparedness in the north particularly challenging. At the same time, we record an increase in activity both in coastal and marine areas and on land, which could require more preparedness in the future. It is therefore gratifying that today we are able to deal with a matter that will just strengthen helicopter preparedness and rescue work in our northern regions. There has been a great deal of agreement between the Government Party and the Advance Party on the need for a new rescue helicopter base between Banak and Bodø. In the state budget for 2020, the government proposed the creation of a new rescue helicopter base in North Norway and, following professional advice, the base was located in Tromsø. Work on the establishment has been a priority, and today the Storting will make decisions that will provide a good solution in both the short and the long term. A joint operated rescue helicopter base is created in Tromsø and the helicopter service for the Sysselmann during 2022, based on civilian accommodation. The synergies between the rescue helicopter base and the Sysselmann helicopter service will provide both quality and economic benefits. The goal is to establish a high-quality base quickly. I want to make it clear that such a goal would not be possible to achieve without a civil lease. I would also like to remind you that it has been reported through the 2020 budget proposal that the government would assess whether it would be reasonable if the 330-square defence took over as the operator of the base in the long term. The joint proposal by the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party and the SV confirms that this will happen when the contract period with the civil operator expires. In the meantime, it will include: have been working to put in place plans and establish the necessary infrastructure on the base in order to receive in the long term the 330-square and the new AW101 SAR Queen helicopters. I would like to stress again that any solution other than first establishing the base with a civil lease would have resulted in a significant postponement. I want to pay tribute to both the Progress Party and the Workers' Party for the good and constructive dialogue we've had along the way, and that has given this matter a very good solution. Media lookups have raised doubts as to whether the new base becomes a fully-fledged rescue helicopter base, since it is first operated civilly and with helicopter material other than the other bases have or will receive. For that the answer is yes. Tromsø gets a fully-fledged rescue helicopter base at the same level as the bases otherwise in the country. He'll have a 24-hour shift and a 15-minute standby. The operator who is assigned to the assignment has experience in some of the most demanding rescue operations we've had in recent times and has passed the tasks with shine. In recent years, the government has significantly strengthened the rescue helicopter capacity by providing 16 new SAR Queen helicopters to replace Sea King. At the inauguration of the new rescue helicopters on the bases of Bodø and Banak and, in the long run, Tromsø, in addition to the coastguard helicopters, the seventh base of Tromsø will provide a significant lift to helicopter capacity and preparedness in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e493	We're very excited about the creation of a rescue helicopter base in Troms. We have a slightly greater ambition for this base and for the preparedness in Troms than the plural. However, I'll start by saying that what's happening in this case here is really great. It is an example of how important an active opposition policy is in such matters to achieve a better result than the government originally provided. We in the Center Party were, as far as I know, the first to criticize that Troms was on the verge of a b-solution, in the form of a civil, private rescue helicopter base. It means that the government added a solution with helicopters that don't have the same reach as the statesmen. We in the Center Party decided that this was not acceptable, and ordered a state base. We have our proponents for this to come as quickly as we can. Per-Willy Amundsen, the representative from the Progress Party, is trying to present it as if the Center Party is against a good solution, but the thing is that we were for an even better solution, namely the fastest possible creation of a state base. The State rescue helicopter service in the 330s quadron has not been involved in the process of creating a new rescue helicopter base in Troms. We think that's nice. They have almost 50 years of experience in running such a service in a weather-hard country like ours. The state has spent two billion dollars on getting the world's best rescue helicopters, 16 of them, and we have an option of five more. SAR Queen has three engines, which provide high security, and they have the ability to rock many people far from land or far to mountain. The civilian rescue helicopters are good, but they don't have the same advantage as the SAR Queen. These advantages we mean that Troms too are fortifying to enjoy. It's good that the majority at Stortinget are some about this here, but we also have a wish that the operation of the rescue helicopter base should be state-owned as quickly as possible. So the difference between the parts is in how impatient we are. Even if we in the Central Party make our own proposal, which we think is the most desirable, we will vote subsidiaryly for the vote by the Justice Committee when our proposal is expected to fall, and then we celebrate just as much as the others for what will result in this case, a better solution for Northern preparedness. I am pleased that in the Central Party we raised this debate, where more and more parties came into the path of a state base. I'm taking up the proposal for the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e510	The representative Jenny Klinge has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e515	The population of the north has for a longer time had a lower capacity on rescue helicopters than in the rest of the country. Large distances, demanding climatic conditions and periodic darkness give rise to specific challenges both at sea and at land. The government therefore wants to give priority to the rapid establishment of a new rescue helicopter base in Tromsø. I would like to thank Stortinget for the agreement that this can now be put into place. With the phasing-in of new rescue helicopters on the bases in Bodø and on Banak in addition to coastguard helicopters, the seventh base in Tromsø will provide a significantly strengthened helicopter capacity in the north. The tender procedure showed that the joint supplier and joint operating base for Tromsø and the helicopter service for the employment man will provide economic and quality benefits. Therefore, such a solution is added up. The service at Tromsøbas must be of good quality, high availability, 24-hour bystander and short response time. The Tromsø base will be a fully-fledged base equal to the bases that are currently operated by the 330 Quadron and the Sysselman's helicopter service on Svalbard. Helicopters will be fully-fledged rescue helicopters with range, equipment, sensors and de-icing capability according to the requirements set for the service. Most search and rescue operations and ambulance operations carried out by rescue helicopters are carried out over land and in coastal strips in relative proximity to the bases. In the few cases where there is a need for extreme range and load capacity, it will be natural to cooperate with the 330s quadron and the SAR Queen that will be stationed in Bodø and on Banak. In the vote, the majority of the committee agreed that the defence should take over as the operator of Tromsøbasen when the civil operator contract expires. This is a good proposal that we support, and let me make it clear that it has been the intention all along as a natural follow-up to the Storting's previous decision that the defence should be the operator of the mainland bases. This should be done when there is good experience in the operation of the new SAR Queen helicopters and could be done in good time before the termination of the civil operator contract. It's e.g. unfortunate to go to the purchase of several helicopters if we can use those already acquired to also operate the Tromsøbase. The establishment of the rescue helicopter base in Tromsø will result in a significant strengthening of the rescue helicopter readiness in North Norway. It shows that the government is taking serious care and priorities measures that will provide greater security for people at sea, along the coast, in the mountains and in areas where there is a long way between people and where weather can make it difficult to get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e530	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e535	This is a good day, but I would like to challenge the Council of State a little bit: it's almost ten years since the Stortinget decided to acquire new rescue helicopters. It was in connection with the proposition that was made in 2011-2012 that they went in to acquire AW101 rescue helicopters for the six existing bases, and where else the Progress Party was the only party that wanted us to set up base in Tromsø – but let me put it aside now. My question to the Council of State is what we can expect in acquisition time, because it's a certain time from acquisition to use, and is it realistic at all to expect that we'll get AW101 to Tromsø before 2028, anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e542	Let me start by giving the Advance Party full recognition for the job done to get the seventh base in place. There can be no doubt about that. It's like we're now phased into 16 helicopters, and we could do a redistribution of the 16. That would disrupt the entire project and the plans that have been put in place for a long time, and that we are very busy following, and that involve a lot – and not least it has a cost side. So if you were to add a seventh base to that plan, it would take years for you to put it into practice. New hangars must be built. Helicopters must be ordered and built. They're already a little late because of the corona, so it would take years before it could be realized. That's why we've been very busy putting this in place as soon as possible – with very good helicopters. We saw it in action now in April outside Ålesund. It saved the boat and the crew.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e550	I assumed I would get that answer. That's probably what's the challenge, that if we were to put the 330 square with the SAR Queen in place, it would mean a significant postponement. And if we were to – I was about to say – assume that we should do it before the contract expires, that might mean a breach of contract. That's the one. In that case, the State must withdraw from the contract with the private parties, with all the risks and potential costs incurred by the State. Secondly, all the time we see the acquisition process that has been on the other helicopters of the other bases, is it not realistic to believe that it is at all possible to achieve this before 2028 with regard to the new helicopters that will then enter Tromsø, the 330 squadron?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e557	I'm invited to wonder about a lot of things. What becomes special, of course, is that those who initiated this process, never planned for a seventh base. We have. Then we're busy getting it in place as fast as possible, and if we're going to, it's with a civil crew and a civil helicopter. It's a very good helicopter, and it's a civil crew that's very good. One shouldn't think here that there's something else we add up to. If we were to base the 330 Quadron and the SAR Queen, we would lack hangar, we would lack helicopters, and we would also lack crews, and it would take many years to get in place. So if you were to follow that plan, you wouldn't get this in place next year, which is our plan. We have got a very good contract, which I hope we will finally sign.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e564	The state rescue helicopter service in the 330s quadron is a group that understands very well in Norwegian weather conditions, distances and everything that is difficult with our beautiful country. They have not been involved in the process of creating a new rescue helicopter base in Troms. That's what we think in the Center Party is strange, because they have almost 50 years of experience in running such a service, as I call it in my post. I wonder if the Council of State can explain what is the reason they have not been involved, and I would also like to hear an assessment from the Council of State whether the government's recommendation could be different if they had conferenceed with the 330-square first.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e569	The Ministry of Justice and Defence received an early recording from the 330-square in connection with the process of creating a new rescue helicopter base, but otherwise the squadron has not been involved in the tendering process related to the contract we have now concluded. It wouldn't be natural either. We've been aware since we decided on the seventh base that it had to be done with civil helicopter and civil crew, simply because something else was not in the plans that were the basis for the acquisition of the SAR Queen and its phase-in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e574	I'll just follow this up a little bit. It's good to hear that they've been involved. I wonder if the Council of State thinks that the involvement that was at an early stage was sufficient to receive advice from the 330s quadron, which could provide a good basis for an assessment of the type of rescue helicopter base to be established in Troms. So my question is, in fact, only if the round that has been drawn with the 330 square was sufficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e579	I feel that the representative here assumes that if you were to conference with the 330 Quadron, you could still plan for the SAR Queen in Tromsø now. So you couldn't. I have to remind you that this is a project that has been going on for many years now. It's very big, it includes a lot of people, and we're now phasing in the new helicopters according to that plan. The seventh base would be the last one to be phased in. We lack crews, hangars – it's not even regulated for – and we lack helicopters. That's why we already knew when we adopted the seventh base, that there had to be civil helicopter, civil crew. But I have to stress very strongly: this is a very, very competent, civil crew, there are very good capacities on these helicopters, they're going to do a great job. So you shouldn't underestimate the base that you get now, and that we get up and stand up just because we chose this solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e584	I would also like to thank the Council of State and the Department for their good cooperation in a constructive process, which has now given us a good result in this matter. I think it is important that we have landed on the two decisions that are recommended today. It has been suggested in the media in the process – from both the Progress Party and the Center Party – that the 330 Quadron should take over at an uncertain time, which would mean uncertainty about contract and thus also the possibility of delay. I would also like to stress that the Workers' Party does not regard what is now coming with a civil operator as a b-solution. There are good helicopters and a well-known operator, but there are other good arguments for 330 and the defense to operate the base. My question to the Council of State is about the decision of Stortinget to ask the government to start the necessary preparations for the defence to take over. I wonder how the Council of State looks at the process further, what does the Council of State think it is important to start by making sure that preparations are made for the defence to take over?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e593	So just to start with the first one, in the case of the 330s quadron, they do a job on the other bases. We have a partnership, and we have a project. That just means that we're now continuing that project to also include a seventh base. But you can't pretend that 330 took over in a year or two or three. It would suspend the contract; then we cannot conclude this contract, then we cannot start in May next year. We want that, and fortunately we want it to be a majority. We're getting a good base in Tromsø. Then, during the contract period, we're going to put in place both facilities related to the crew and what we need, and which we now have a good knowledge of and very good practice in, after we've phased into the six other bases. This gives us a good basis for doing this job. We have time to do it, and we wouldn't have it in place before.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e600	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e607	I'm going to allow myself to contribute some historical knowledge to the members of the committee, because it doesn't look like you have it at all. Buying helicopters is a pretty big deal. New life-saving helicopters to be phased in shall be produced. Contracts shall be made. It shall be accepted; it shall be prepared; pilots shall be carried. All of these things take time, and it is very well illustrated by the fact that the proposition that was dealt with in the Storting in 2011-2012 was actually the one that made up the acquisitions that we see today. Nearly ten years took it. One would like to agree with the Advance Party that it would be preferable to see that it was the 330-square and the Defense that took over. But then they had to have bought the helicopters, made it, already in 2012. You didn't. Only the Progress Party wanted us to also set up a rescue helicopter base in Tromsø in 2012 – only the Progress Party. The red-green government, with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, did not need to purchase rescue helicopters for Tromsø, so no need to establish a rescue helicopter base in Tromsø. That's the historical fact. That's why we have to use private now, which is not a b-solution, which the Center Party goes on to say incredibly – we call private solutions for b-solutions. It's a good helicopter and competent people who are going to do a good job in that period, until the 330squadron takes over. But that's not a b-solution. The center party, among other things, is because we have to use private before we can switch to the 330s quadron. So a little soberness in this discussion I wish you could have. The claims made in the media, especially by the Central Party, are not based on facts, not on reality and not on history. The center party is part of the reason why we don't get SAR Queen to Tromsø in 2022, but we get private, and I think that's great. They're going to do a good job. I would like to remind you that neither the Center Party nor any of the other red-green parties – the party was the only thing in 2017 that saw the need to establish a rescue helicopter base – started that work. At that time, there was zero interest from the red-green parties. This is not a solution that has come about in Stortinget, which the Workers' Party is trying to give the impression. This is something the government has been working on over time, which the Progress Party has started, and which is now finally delivered. The government has made this quite clear on its own, without any assistance from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e622	The representative Amundsen talks about giving the Storting a history lesson. If I had been a pedagogue or a textbook writer, I would have made sure to get a significant number of alternative sources of that story, because it's influenced by the fact that there's a election campaign soon, and that all parties are probably interested in highlighting their own efforts. I think it is very good that both the Progress Party and other parties here in the Chamber are for there to be a rescue helicopter base in Tromsø. You've been working for it for years. It has also been done by the Workers' Party – and the Centre Party, in contrast to what the Progress Party says. I would also like to point out that the developments that have taken place in the matter since the government presented the proposition and to this day have been very joyful. In several government budgets, most recently in the state budget for this year, the government has agreed that the base should be operated civilly, without saying anything about the defence or the 330s quadron. In connection with this process, the representative of Amundsen spoke to the media so late as at the beginning of April that the option of getting more SAR Queen helicopters to Norway, even if it was expensive, would be put in place as soon as possible. Today, the majority here in Stortinget agree on a responsible solution, which ensures that the base comes up as soon as possible, without any uncertainty, and that we get a decision saying that we want the 330 Quadron and the Defense to drive out of the civil contract. It's very joyful. It is also responsible, and it shows that it is useful to talk to each other. Then you can think of better thoughts, no matter what history you want to do afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e634	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e651	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, there will be no opportunity for a line change, and those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e658	A decree when Norway's human rights institution, hereinafter called NIM, was created, was that he should be evaluated after four years of operation. The purpose of this evaluation has been to assess whether the organisation and use of resources of NIM means that the institution carries out its tasks in an appropriate and cost-effective manner and in line with the main objective of establishment, which is to strengthen the implementation of human rights in Norway. This report is good and thorough, and the report shows that NIM is working well with both organisational development and professional content, and that enterprise management is in line with good practice in business management. Superiorise NIMs and works within all the main areas described by the NIM Act, and NIM delivers most and most clearly within the main tasks, which are about monitoring, reporting and providing advice on human rights. The evaluation shows that NIM provides good formal advice to central agencies such as the Stortinget, the Sametinget, the Government and other public bodies. Nevertheless, we see in the report that NIM has a potential for development in the areas of information, guidance, training, education and research. One sees that NIM is not as well-known among individuals, and that one does not reach so widely with information in the field of human rights, and then it is very positive to read NIM's own feedback that a person is actively working on this and is betting on external communication and increasing visibility in e.g. social media. The report also stresses that a lot of time has been spent in NIM to establish a common division of roles and responsibilities between the board and the director, and that this is now working satisfactorily. The report also points out that today's regime that the Board of Directors and the Director are both appointed by the Stortinget, favours principleal ambiguity when it is the responsibility of the institution. The report considers that the Management Board should be able to appoint and dismiss the Director, and a Joint Committee proposes that the Presidency amend Section 7 of the NIM Act, in line with that recommendation. It is also stated in the report that the inclusion of Gáldu in NIM has worked as intended, although there have been some challenges in the process. In general, the impression is that the rights of indigenous peoples have been given a high priority in the work of NIM. Finally, when it comes to the independence of NIM, the report refers to the Paris principle underpinned. There is consistently clear support for NIM institutionally to be directly subsidized to the Stortinget. I come to a later article to do some good for the Workers' Party's vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e679	It was a very good and good case spokesman from the representative, Mr. Wagzlid, so I don't have to repeat everything that was said there. But I would like to make it clear that we think it is very nice and pleasant to register that NIM is responsible for delivering and working satisfactorily within the main areas described in the NIM Act, and in accordance with the purpose of the creation in 2015. As the case spokesman said, the target achievement is good, and the operation is considered cost-effective. I only want to do the right thing for the proposals for decisions in the configuration. It is stressed that the scheme whereby Stortinget appoints both the board of directors and the director can contribute to some fundamental ambiguities when it is the responsibility of the institution. The evaluation suggests that NIM should continue to be headed by a board appointed by the Stortinget, but that the board itself should be able to assign and assign the Director, in order to ensure clear roles and responsibilities. This is a recommendation we want to join. However, we do not see it as appropriate at present to amend Section 7 of the NIM Act in order to symbolically indicate that NIM or the Director of NIM are professionally independent. We believe that this is all well represented in today's legal text. NIM Act § 2, second sentence, states that NIM carries out ‘its tasks independently and independently, and decides for itself how to organise and organise the work’. The evaluation concludes that NIM is essentially independent and fulfils the Paris principle of independence and that the relationship between the Director and the Governing Board has been clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e688	Norway’s Human Rights Institute, NIM, was established in 2017 and has been evaluated. I refer to the committee comments in which the centre party is involved, but I would just like to make it clear that we should not have been involved in the comments that specifically deal with the Director's professional independence. In the committee position, we are now in the midst of these comments and the proposal that belongs to them, but we shall not vote in favour of this proposal, i.e. the proposal in the position as II. So this is just one explanation of vote from my side. It's rare that we'll be happy to vote against ourselves, but we'll get the opportunity when she comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e693	We have received an evaluation of NIM that we are very pleased with. The employees of the Norwegian Institute for Human Rights may follow this debate, and I would like to take the opportunity to commend them for the excellent work they do. I've actually been following the development of NIM for twenty years. It is true that they started in 2017, but already in the early 2000s there were some aspects of a kind of structure that was kind of a precursor to today's NIM. It has evolved into a very strong and important institution in Norway, which has as its main task the monitoring of the human rights situation in Norway and the provision of advice on corruption and government. They are part of a group of institutions in which the Civil Service Officer and, to the extent that the Riksrevision is also, have some of the same constitutional role in relation to the Storting. Of course, in order for these tasks to be properly carried out, the Storting must ensure that they have sufficient resources to deal with them, but there must also be a law and a structure that ensures sufficient integrity and independence in that work. So it can't be like we've seen in any other country, where you have national human rights institutions that are really just obedient actors to the authorities and report to international agencies about how good they are. That's not how we want it to be in Norway. There are two relationships at NIM that I want to use the opportunity to reflect very briefly on. One is the constitutional starting point, that under the Constitution, corruption and government are obliged to guarantee human rights in Norway, to guarantee the fundamental rights of the inhabitants. The size has an independent responsibility for this. When NIM makes recommendations to Stortinget about things that are demanding and difficult, I have often been concerned that Storting's attitude to NIM has been a bit mailboxed. I have brought this up in Stortinget several times. In other words, you accept the recommendations, but you send it directly to the government, without wanting to go in and process the findings and recommendations that NIM makes. That's what I think has been wrong, and I still think so. I believe that Stortinget must take a much clearer responsibility and dry to deal with some of the issues that NIM comes with. The issue of isolation in prisons is one of the issues where this has happened. We've taken up the issue of leadership independence. I'm glad we're coming to an agreement. It is similar to what the Harberg Committee has previously concluded that we must put an end to the situation that Stortinget is also going to employ the Director. This means that the President of Stortinget is also an employer for the Director, and the Director must then anchor all the things of the world. We're cleaning it up now, and I'm very happy about that. It will create a completely different independence for NIM in the future. That's right, and it's in line with the rest of the world of work. With that, I'm submitting SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e706	The representative Petter Eide has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e711	I also think it is gratifying and very reassuring that the evaluation shows that NIM delivers very well professionally through the mandate they have been given. I just want to do the right thing for two ratios. On March 17th, Sameetinget contacted us and highlighted the importance of NIM's physical presence in the Sami area, and that NIM's office in Kautokeino must be maintained. At the same time, the Sameting pointed out that the premise for the inclusion of Gáldu was that there was still to be a tradesmanship at the office in Kautokeino. The merger referred to the mandate of NIM in relation to questions of national law and to the need for at least one member of the board and members of the advisory committee to have specific knowledge of the Sami community. So to the proposal from the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party when it comes to independence. I think that making sure that the board is able to appoint and assign the director, and that the professional independence of the director is regulated, will ensure clearer roles and responsibilities between the board and the board. We received a call from the Presidency and also from the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs to justify that proposal a little more closely, and we have done so in the vote. The second sentence of Section 2 of the NIM Act guarantees the institution independence. What's our point is to have a rule that clearly states that the director is professionally independent. In Section 6 of the NIM Act it is called: ‘The Governing Board shall have overall responsibility for the professional, economic and operational activities of the national institution.’ As the report also shows, this rule can create confusion in the liability of the board and the director. The reason is that they can read in the setting, which after the information from Jenny Klinge is the Working Party and the SV that is behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e725	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e742	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e749	The matter we are dealing with here today will delight all those who are engaged in motorsports. This will be a joyous day for the people out there, a joyous day for the grassroots and a joyous day for all who are concerned about getting the motorsport democratized in Norway. To quote the AMCAR, which had a nice post in a video we put back for a while: with the change the government is now making, we're going to get a motorsport that's by the practitioners and for the practitioners. And to add a quote from myself, we are fortunately not going to get a motorsport that is controlled by the pomps or is for the pomps. It's important. Actually, this case we are not dealing with today, say so much about the regulatory changes. They do the government themselves, no matter what we do on the Storting. It is more about changes in the law in terms of speed and who should be responsible, whether it is the police or whether it is the State Road Service. What's special about this case is that traditionally, on the right, we're accused of being a bit of a trap and cynical and occupied with the pomps and those who have power and money, but in this case, it's actually the left side, with the Workers' Party, the Center Party and even the SV, who have allied themselves with the elite. They have allied themselves with the pomps, against the grassroots, against the people, in order to hesitate on a system and a code that has led to Norwegian motorsports being a small sport compared to other countries, leading to the fact that motorsports are expensive, leading to few motorsports. I expect that most of the members of the committee have received all the letters we have received recently, all the enquiries we have received. It's been a pretty massive campaign, especially from those who don't want to give up their power and positions. It's also a little interesting that the way it's going now, it's the grassroots that we've been working on for six to seven years for the Progress Party, and we've got a lot of pussiness, which wins, not the pomps. I hope that Arne Nävra, the Workers' Party and the Center Party have read the letter from NAF, because there this is very clear. And there's no such false news that comes from NAF, it's facts and documented. The representative Nävra and the Central Party and the Workers' Party can read this for themselves. By entering into the statutes of, inter alia, KNA they'll see that the way it works today, it's not democratic. That's why the change in government is going to be right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e764	Here the government presents a proposal for amendments to the Road Traffic Act. It is proposed to make changes so that the general speed limit of the law does not apply to training for competition and other organised driving, and a new wording is proposed in Section 7(c), which allows the Ministry to lay down rules on running on enclosed or other restricted areas. We in the Workers' Party now want the matter to be sent back to the government. This is done in the light of letters from the Norwegian Sports Association, which include: says it is ‘awareness-raising that, in formal letters to the Transport Committee, the Council of State writes that the Government does not open up new entrants to organise motorsports events. If this is the case, the Storting must either reject the proposal or give clear guidance to the government that the exclusive right is established, as the proposition de facto opens to the opposite’. After this, the Council of State has amended the communication to the Committee and says that the government really wants to open up the possibility for new actors to organise motorsports and other activities on the closed track. A change of laws, as the government now proposes, would involve a historic breach of the Norwegian model of sport, where responsibility for rules, arrangements, security, anti-doping work, recruitment and breadth has been assigned to the special federations of Norwegian sport. We also find it unfortunate that the government is now proposing to change the motorsport legislation without having it clarified with the sports movement. Let there be no doubt that the Workers' Party will secure the Norwegian sports model, and we believe that the government must engage in dialogue with sport to find agreed solutions within the framework of this model. This is not only sad, but also untidy. And now we also hear the case rapporteur talk about the pompas, and that one is on the grassroots side. If not the sports movement is grassroots, then I don't know! If our proposal falls, we will vote in favour of the changes in Section 6, but against the changes in Section 7. I have thus addressed the proposal to the minority in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e782	Then the representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e787	What this matter is about are two relatively simple changes to the Road Traffic Act. One goes on handling the speed limit associated with motorsport arrangements and the other goes on to open up the possibility of laying down detailed conditions relating to that type of arrangement in a separate regulation. The very changes in the laws that we are going to deal with here in the Storting today are not particularly complicated and should not be very difficult to join. So I don't understand the need to send anything back to the government, simply because it's relatively simple, curative legislative changes. What naturally creates a certain debate here is the proposal for a regulation that the government has had at the hearing and that allows actors other than the Norwegian Autosports Association and the Norwegian Motorsports Association to arrange this type of propellant, motorsport stymi. I think that what's important here is that when the government decides to open up to more players, it's also important that you make sure that there's a smooth and good transition, set up against those who have now had that exclusive right. That means that I think it should be a good dialogue with the Sports Association and related associations in that process, so that we ensure that this happens in a smooth and good way, and that it can be beneficial for motorsports – that we can help to increase both the diversity and width of motorsports through the changes proposed by the government. To it with certainty: I think that regardless of who arranges motorsport driving skills, it should be possible through the regulation – and there is a great deal of emphasis in the proposal for a regulation, as I can see – to facilitate the proper provision of safety. I am quite convinced that it will be possible to get in touch with other actors than the two who have the primary responsibility and the exclusive right today. Of course, we support these legislative changes. I don't see any great drama in the laws themselves. The discussion here is strictly concerned with the regulation that the government has consulted and that opens up to new actors. It should be unnecessary to send something back to the government. There should also be a fairly broad majority behind these legislative changes, because there are really quite good adaptations to the law that is there. Then it's really the regulation that will regulate what's the conflict material here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e802	First of all, I would like to say that the Left strongly distanced itself from the description of today's actors in the motorsport, which was presented by the case rapporteur for this matter. We think that both the Norwegian Autosports Association and the Norwegian Motorsports Association have some democratic flaws, but to call it a Pampavelde – I do not know that. So on to what the representative Helge Orten clearly described: these are the legislative changes that we are adopting today, which are going to lead to something else. What is important here is that there is clearly a view from many motorsport players that those with these monopolies today are unable to recruit enough practitioners. I think the potential is great, especially now, with new technology. We see that now the electric cars take over. The electric motors are a great technology that is much easier to handle, and that perhaps gives even greater experiences in motorsports. I hope that this technology can lead to a completely different growth in this sport. I have good faith that the State Road Service, which has been the ones who have monitored the safety of today's motorsports, is fully capable of assessing new actors and not least new arenas. For that is a bit of the point: many of these clubs or organisations have areas that are vacant and can be used for social purposes. We have e.g. NAF’s smooth lanes, which can be used beyond the time you hire them to drive schools and people who are going to take the driving licence and learn how to drive smoothly. Here are the areas that can clearly be used for motorsports at other times of the day. I look forward to more actors in this area, and not least that recruitment, especially among young people, is also implemented and maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e813	The motorsport is constantly evolving, and the legislation has gradually become obsolete and needs to be updated. Many actors have therefore requested that the legislation be adapted to meet today’s needs. There has also been a desire to open up training for competition and other organised running on a closed path at higher speeds than the current speed limits. Today it is only allowed to run at higher speeds under competition. I think most people understand that this restriction may be required to live on a motorsport track. The government wants to contribute to the development of motorsports and has therefore proposed a necessary extension of the legislation to embrace more categories and activities, and thus also a few more practitioners – a supplement, not a replacement. In the proposal for a new motorsport regulation, which has been on a wide loop, the right to drive motorsport is therefore no longer reserved for specific associations. In order to ensure that motorsports continue to operate within safe limits even after this change and with new actors, it is of course necessary to lay down safety and competence requirements for both federations, clubs and practitioners. The new section 7 of the Road Traffic Act establishes the basis for setting such requirements and will of course be done. Regulatory requirements will be laid down for the association to adopt regulations to regulate more closely the given aspects of security, further to the knowledge and experience of those offering the course and training, and to ensure that the security of participants is properly maintained. The road authority of the State will be empowered to grant the necessary exemptions from speed limits and to impose the necessary conditions to permit this. One will, of course, also maintain requirements for necessary insurance. I would like to stress that the connection, which has been responsible for today's regulation, has done well, and I expect new actors to continue the established safety culture of the motorsport and to be responsible for the activities they offer, being as secure as possible for all those involved. I hope these changes will help to increase the visibility of the width and scope of motorsports and motorsport-related activities. So I have noticed that the Sports Association is concerned that the rule change will change the Norwegian sports model, which I do not think will be the case. We've had a broad hearing process around the new rules, and this commotion from the Sports Federation has not been as clear about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e828	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e833	The Norwegian Sports Association/sports movement is a cross-political movement with members of all parties and parts of the country. It is therefore part of the raison d'être that the Sports Association uses as strong words as sports president Berit Kjøll does in the letter to the Council of State on 5 May 2021, criticising both the lack of involvement of the sport movement in this decision and also the material content, which includes: calls it an irresponsible release that goes on safety. My question to the Council of State is: Why in the world has Knut Arild Hareide, whom I know as a person who knows and understands the popular movement that sport is, totally ignored the strong objections and not taken an extra round to clarify this with Norway's greatest voluntary movement?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e840	We've had a wide round where we've seen these changes. It's naturally involved in the sports movement. The two associations have followed this process from the very beginning to the end, and we have also had a separate round of the sport movement in retrospect. Here it has both our ears, and it has our meetings. Of course, there has been some disunity, but I may also feel that the words from the sports movement have become clearer and clearer – and were not so clear in the process. What they pointed to in the ear ring was things that naturally went on volunteering, but also on security demands and leadership, and it's completely taken care of with the solution that's on the table here. I also want to say that I have full confidence in the movement. This is a model introduced in Sweden, and I think this is not an attack on the Norwegian sports model.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e850	In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State states that it is not such as to open the door for new players to organise motorsports, because it is regulated by the Motorsports Regulation, which was revised in 2001 at the latest. The point is that today's Road Traffic Act § 6 limits this driving at high speed limits after police permission to compete. It is then in the word competition that this is a sport, an organised activity to compete. What the Council of State is doing now, with the new Section 6, is removing the restriction that this should be competitive driving or, as it is quite rightly pointed out, training for racing. There is also another driving, and that is where the whole sporting and competition perspective is removed from this, and in the future it will also be impossible to give the Norwegian Autosports Association and the Norwegian Motorsports Association the opportunity to organise these fixed frameworks. What is the reason for this release from the Hareides side?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e859	The two associations will have the full ability to organize tunes, but we feel that there is a larger width within the motorsport, which the two associations do not necessarily take up. This is a code that strongly reminds me of what they have in Sweden, and I do not feel that it is a violation of the Swedish sports model. I want to point to what the Sports Association pointed to in the earring. They pointed out that the importance of volunteering should be stressed. But the volunteers here have a width. What we're experiencing is that the motorsport has not been good enough to get that width and volunteer. And then, of course, it's the certainty that's going to happen. The sports team pointed to that in their ears, and I think I'm well cared for here. Therefore, I would say that I am not concerned about this set up against the Norwegian sports model, and as I said earlier, I think the Sports Association has used stronger words on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e866	In Sweden, there is both heavy beer at the store and a much lower alcohol charge. I've never heard Hareide refer to Sweden in that context. Now let's keep Sweden outside and stick to the question itself. In the past, we had an exception in Section 6, which was applicable to racing, i.e. organized sports. Now you change that paragraph, so that also the motorsport code to which Hareide refers, which gives the Autosports Association and the Motorsports Association the right to organise this in a professionally good way, is removed. I have to ask again, what's the reason for this? Why can't you relate to the Norwegian sports model, where competition driving, breaking the speed limits on organized tracks, are regulated by the sport model we have in Norway, where rules for both safety, participation, doping – for all this? Now you're simply saying that this can actually be done by everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e875	What this is about is an expanding motorsport that comes in different forms. The sports federation, for example, takes up trackday.no, which does not engage in motorsports as defined within the framework of the connected. They run a motorsport where they have their own children's days, where the purpose is pleasure and the desire to test themselves. They're drifting in a different way, with a different concept. I think it should be possible for that. I think it is an excessive concern to problem this against the Norwegian sports model. I don't see the basis for that. I think one must be able to run in higher speed, both in training and in competition, and that we need a larger width. That is what underlies this proposal, and the sports model was not mentioned in the hearing proposal of the Sports Federation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e882	I just want to point out that the committee leader the place started by saying instead that it would increase the width of the motorsport, I think is a good point. It will increase recruitment and reduce costs. That is why I have also received many requests as to when these changes will come into force. Some things take a little longer than other things. This case should not be so difficult, so we should be able to see results already this summer, so that more people can enjoy running motorsports. My question to the Minister is, When can we see results? I'm assuming that it's going to happen quickly, that is. before summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e889	We're working on this case. It has been a lot of listening, which has gone from 2019. I think it is natural, also in the light of the debate that has been taking place in Stortingen today, that I take a meeting with the Sports Association. We think we have had a wide dialogue with the whole way, and we have been clear that we want to give more actors the opportunity. We also think that the Sports Association in its statement did not point out that this would be a violation of the sports model. I still think it's natural, when we know how strongly the sports movement is in Norway, that we take a meeting – and I want to do that. But I want to point out that it has both been heard, and that we have had a specific meeting. I also want to follow it up before we establish the final regulations. But yes, we want to get more actors on the track, and it is now being set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e894	I am very pleased that the Minister has good dialogue with and great respect for the Sports Association – so do I. It is a very important association in Norway. But has the Minister considered that the Sports Association has not taken up the NBF as a member, and that the times the NBF has tried they have been rejected, and that the NBF does not receive tipping drugs because of the lack of democratic processes? How does the Minister feel about having a dialogue with the Sports Association, when the Sports Association clearly admits itself that the NBF should have a democratic review before they can be accepted into the Sports Association?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e899	I think that my responsibility is to ensure that we have both competitors and training with good security. I want a motorsport, which I experience is a great sport, and I want a lot of people to be able to drive with this activity. The Sports Association shall be allowed to determine who are members of them and what criteria they set there. When we look at this code, it is clear that listening to the movement is important to us, but we want to give more actors the ability to engage in activity. And I mean, as I also said, that what we're going to bring is more of a supplement, and I also think that those actors that are now going to be able to get through the changes that we're coming with, will experience it more as a supplement, that it gives greater breadth and is positive for the volunteer, which also the Sports Association is concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e904	It is nice to hear that the Council of State will have dialogue with the movement, but it is a little strange that it is coming now – after waiting for the debate here in the Chamber. These objections and the views of sport have been known for quite some time. But I want to bring in another moment. As I see it, it's a clear liberalisation for the actors in the motorsport. This, as I also read it, I would also like to ask the Council of State directly: does the Council of State see that both the amendment of the law and, if necessary, changes to the regulation are in the direction of more actors entering, that it becomes more liberalized, and that there is also more driving in practice on closed sections of the road? And how will the Council of State ensure that the scientific assessments are carried out if it is the State Road Service that will decide whether exercise is permitted at high speed on off-road routes?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e911	I'll answer both questions. Firstly, the dialogue with the Sports Association has been there all along. The two motor associations have been in the dialogue from the start, before 2019. The sports association has been part of the listening ring. After the hearing, the political leadership in the department had a private meeting where the Sports Association was present. So we feel that the Sports Association has come with a clearer lead when the matter has been dealt with in Stortinget. It seemed to me that it is natural to challenge the Sports Association, to have a dialogue about it, before we do the final work on the regulations. We have had a dialogue all the way, but I feel that the signals from the Sports Association have come into the Stortinget were clearer than when we had dialogue earlier in the process. Otherwise, I am concerned that we will naturally see the soundness of those guides, and the scientific assessments should be part of it. We should see the wholeness in it, and I'll follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e918	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e926	Motorsport is racing on two and four wheels and is an important and exciting offer with a number of branches that appeal to both children, young people and adults. Norway’s Sports Association has strongly objected to the proposed regulation and it is alarming that, in formal letters to the Transport and Communications Committee, the Council of State writes that the government does not open up new players to organise motorsport incentives. The Sports Association believes that if this is the case, the Storting must either reject the proposal or give clear guidance to the government that the exclusive right is established, as the proposition de facto opens up to the opposite. The very different perceptions of what these changes to the Road Traffic Act will mean are the background to the fact that the Centre Party has taken part in proposing that Prop. [[motorsport]] 151 L for 2020-2021, Road Traffic Act amendments The adoption of this proposition, where there is so much disagreement between important actors as the sport movement and the government on what the content actually means in practice, is unwise and can have unintended effects. Therefore, we believe that the government must engage in dialogue with the movement in order to find a common understanding of what this content really means before a decision is taken. It is important to call and support the Norwegian sport model. If the fold-out majority wants to treat Prop. 151 L, the Central Party will oppose the amendments to the Road Traffic Act § 7c.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e935	My good colleague, Jon Gunnes, used the term 'democratic shortcomings'. He probably thought I was a little scratched in my rhetoric. I hope Gunnes or others didn't misunderstand me. NIF, Norwegian Sports Federation, I think of it as very democratic. It's a very important association, and they're doing a huge job. But remember, KNA and NBF aren't NIF. That's what's kind of interesting about this debate, that NBF, for some strange reason, has managed to mobilize the Sports Federation, the whole of Norway, and clearly to create a doubt among some representatives in this Chamber that the changes of the government now and the decisions of the majority of the population today will lead to a breach of the Norwegian sports model. It's completely wrong, and it's sad that they use a rhetoric like that, and sad that they use an angle like that. I think it's nice that the sports team is involved. But it is clear that there has been an impact on the Sports Association, and the Autosports Association and KNA have done an incredibly good job such as mobilising a resistance to a change that is quite obvious, of course, will lead to a weakening of their power position, or actually simply a monopoly situation. That's what's a little bit of a challenge here. Democratic defiance, as Gunnes said, is a careful way to say it. The point is: if you refer to the NAF letter, it is quite clear that KNA is entitled to the Presidential Office and the Vice-President's Office. That's very special -- they're entitled to that. The remaining four members of the Governing Board of KNA shall be elected by the annual meeting. But anyway, it's KNA that has control, and then NMK 2, NAF gets 2, MA gets 1, and AMCAR gets 1. And then what's interesting comes, and that's that the matter that's being dealt with by the annual meeting is decided by a simple majority. In the case of equality of vote, the rapporteur's vote is decisive. This means that through its voting power, KNA controls the annual meeting. I don't know any other organizations, parties or associations in the NIF that have such a distribution, that someone should have a majority in any case. Therefore, it is very good that when KNA and NBF themselves were not willing to change this monopoly situation, the government is taking action and making sure to release new actors and more actors. I am very happy to go skiing and want to go skiing, but it is not that I have to be a member of the Norwegian Ski Federation. I'm also happy to play football, in going on a football field and playing football, but I don't have to be a member of the Norwegian Football Federation to play football on all the courses that are around the country. There has been a difference between driving motorsports and running other sports, and it is a little important to get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e946	Now the debate here is largely concerned about the sporting movement, the sport seas, which are to be organised, and whether other actors should be allowed to do so. That's what this debate has been about. The SV's position and where we stand is expressed in the proposal and in the comments. But I want to elaborate a little bit more on the line I had to the Council of State. The council also had a little time to respond. There are some aspects of this that are often not mentioned, and there are driving and exercising, both competition and training, on closed, blocked roads. This obviously also has an environmental aspect, it's not hard to see. So my question, my concern too, is whether the changes in the law and regulations can mean greater liberalisation, greater activity, without taking environmental into account the blocked road systems. There have been a number of such events. There have also been some more or less legal, I think, training sessions on these forest roads – well rallying – that have been worrying, and there have been some newspaper headlines about it. So my question is, if the Council of State is given the opportunity to elaborate on its answer a little bit more, what systems apply for the authorisation of either training sessions or competitions, especially on blocked road systems, and basically on forested roads. What kind of criteria are used? What kind of contacts are made with regard to natural professional considerations? It's not always that the State Road Service has the contact they're going to have, whether it's with the environmental authorities or maybe the State Administration in this case, I don't know. It would be nice to hear if the Council of State knows the routines that exist, so that it can be arranged and not least trained — if it opens even more to this, with more organisers — for example. in the breeding season of birds and in the calving season of spring. These things I think it's pretty crucial to get things done, because I think most people don't want to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e955	The reason why I drew was to follow up on the answers given by the Council of State. The new section 6 is not a requirement to open up everything, it is an opportunity. We would have liked that opportunity to be given only when it was clarified with the sports movement how this is to be organised, but in Section 7 the Council of State now has a regulatory home that he can use from the signals here in the hall and from society for the rest. My interpretation in the best sense of the Council of States is that he will now sit down with the sport, listen to the sport model — where competition is organised into the organised big sport movement, where all the good ethical and value principles on which sport is based and where this, which is a positive activity for many in Norway, can continue to have its place within that sport movement. So my question is about the Council of State – with this very kind interpretation of the Council of State on a Friday afternoon and a meeting with a Council of State that might have had a different outcome in another government constellation – will follow up this matter in such a way that the movement of sport also feels safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e960	I would just like to make a few brief comments on this. What we are adopting here today is, first of all, what we are dealing with is the speed limit, which I experience is a clarification in the paragraph that allows this to be handled much better both for training and competition. It's probably pretty bulky when you're going to exercise and practice driving fast on a track, that you have a speed limit to deal with. So I think it's enough to solve a little bit in such practical terms. I feel that there's a fairly broad majority for that, so that's not a problem. The second amendment proposed by the government is to allow for the establishment of detailed rules relating to both training and competition driving in a separate regulation, and then an opportunity to design that regulation. It in itself is relatively outrageous. At the same time, of course, there is a proposal from the government for a new regulation, which has been consulted and opened up to new actors. From our perspective, I see it so that opening up to new actors in this area I think I can do well. I would also like to stress what we have said in the form of a comment, namely that it makes sense to have a good dialogue with the Sports Association and the sports movement on these issues. At the same time, I think that opening up to more actors here who can arrange both training opportunities, competitions and other things can help increase the diversity and breadth of motorsports. I see this more as a supplement than as a direct competition to the connected and the competition that is happening today, and if we achieve it, we will also be able to increase the width and diversity of motorsports, perhaps even increased recruitment in the long term. So here, in my opinion, it is how to manage this in implementation, which is important to ensure that we actually achieve the objectives behind the proposal for a regulation, namely to increase both the diversity and the breadth of sport and thus perhaps also facilitate a positive development of motorsports in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e973	I'm going to answer the challenges that I've been given, and I want to start with the representative Arne Nävra, who is dealing with the natural part, which we know can get a bigger load. Now there is no change in what lies here for that type of assessment, but we know that when there can be high speeds both in training and in competition, wear could increase. It is the State Road Service that is responsible for following this up today, but we know that the State Department for Nature Conservation is the one with perhaps even greater competence on that kind of question. I want to take with me today from the debate how we are going to follow this up in a good and proper way. That is also how the representative Trond Giske deals with this: the sports federation is important. It is important that the Sports Association is maintained. Neither shall the Sports Association sit with a possibility for a veto decision in that kind of question. However, I would like to point out that the association that currently has a single right to organise and offer motorsports, the Norwegian Autosports Association and the Norwegian Motorsports Association, was early involved in the revision of the Motorsports Code. Both of them participated in the meeting held before the proposal for a new regulation went to the hearing, where they were given the opportunity to argue against a change in the legal situation, including the one-rights situation. In addition, these associations, together with the Norwegian Sports Associations and other motorsporters, participated in a meeting with the Ministry after hearing the proposal for new rules. There the associations expressed their views on the amendments. So it's like being listened to doesn't always give the result you want. I would like to stress that the two motorsport associations have managed the responsibility well and contributed significantly to establishing the good safety culture we see before motorsport today. It is still not my impression that the new players who want to run motorsports are primarily driven by economic interests. The requested changes are clubs and fire brigades who want to operate with something they burn for, without being a member of the two named associations. That's what we want to make sure. But as I have said, I want to have a dialogue with the Sports Association before making the final changes to the rules here. I mean, this isn't an attack on the Norwegian sports model. I found it very much reminiscent of what we see in Sweden. I also feel that the Sports Association has been clearer in its dialogue with Stortinget when the matter has come here, as they were both during the hearing and in the meeting we had with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e986	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-21.ana.ud301e1001	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? – Nobody does, and the meeting has been cancelled.
