ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e25	The representatives of the Harek Rivers, Christian Tybring-Gjedde and Lene Westgaard-Halle, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The President will announce that the election of members and alternates to the Electoral Committee, which was held at the Constituent Meeting of the Grand Duchy on Saturday 9 October, resulted in the election of all the proposed members by 166 votes. The President will subsequently convene the Electoral Committee for its first meeting. Councillor Jan Tore Sanner exceeded 28kgl. propositions: Changes in the Law on State Employees, etc. [[2020-2021]] Consent to the approval of Decision of the EEA Joint Committee No 165/2019 of 14 June 2019 on the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Directive and Regulation [[PSD2]] [[2020-2021]] Consent to the acceptance of a regulation in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, regulation in the field of entry and exit control and regulation [[SIS]] [[SIS]] [[2020-2021]] Consent to accept Regulation [[2020-2021]] Changes in the Act on Age Limits for State Employees and Others and State pension fund law [[2020-2021]] Act on insurance mediation and consent to the approval of Decision No EEA Committee 214/2018 of 26 October 2018 on the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Directive [[Insurance Disposal Act]] [[2020-2021]] Amendments to the Securities Trading Act and consent to participation in a decision of the EEA Committee on the inclusion of a Regulation [[EU re-establishment prospectus, etc.]] [[2020-2021]] Changes in the State Budget 2021 under the Ministry of Health and Welfare (Prop. 232 S [[2020-2021]] Amendments to the Schengen Information System Act, etc. [[SIS Act]] (Prop. [[2020-2021]] 226 L Changes to the Borders Act, the Foreign Affairs Act and the Police Register Act [[2020-2021]] Amendments to the insurance contract law etc. [[2020-2021]] Distribution and planning of E39 Stord–Os, Åland–Svegatjørn in the West (Prop. [[CHUCKLES]] 228 S [[2020-2021]] Law on the import and export of goods and customs duty law [[the laws of the Member States governing the ……]] [[2020-2021]] Changes in the Health Personnel Act [[2020-2021]] Law on compensation from the State to victims of violence [[2020-2021]] Changes in the State budget 2021 under the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs [[2020-2021]] Consent to bring into force a Protocol amending the Tax Agreement of 24 April 2014 between Norway and Belgium in order to avoid double taxation with regard to income taxes and to prevent tax evasion, signed at Oslo on 8 September 2021 (Prop. [[2020-2021]] 240 S Changes in the State Budget 2021 under the Ministry of Health and Welfare under the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Culture [[Influenza vaccination programme]] [[additional agreements with the train crew]] [[2020-2021]] Amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act and consent to the ratification of the Protocol between the European Union [[to compare data in the Eurodac Central Register for law enforcement purposes]] [[2020-2021]] Changes in criminal law, etc. [[2020-2021]] Amendments to the Reconstruction Act [[2020-2021]] Changes in the State Budget 2021 under the Ministry of Transport and revision of the toll package [[operational credit to Nye Weier AS and cost frameworks]] [[2021-2021]] Changes to the collection and supervision law [[2021-2021]] Amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act [[2021-2022]] State budget 2022 [[2021-2022]] Taxes, levies and duties 2022 (Prop. 1 LS [[2021-2022]] Changes to the Patient Records Act [[2021-2022]] Changes in the Law on Social Security and Individual Other Laws [[2021-2022]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e134	The representative, Marie Snee Martinussen, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e139	On behalf of the Bjørn Momnes, Hege Bae Nyholt, Seher Aydar, Geir Jørgensen, Mimir Kristjánsson, Tobias Drevland Lund, Sofie Marhaug and myself, I would like to make a proposal on cuts in the remunerations of the grossing-up representatives and members of the government. On behalf of Tobias Drevland Lund, Hege Bae Nyholt, Sofie Marhaug and myself, I would like to make a proposal to keep child welfare outside the calculation of economic social assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e146	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e151	On behalf of the representatives of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Lars Haltbrecken, Kirsti Bergstø, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Kathy Lie, Andreas Sjalg Unneland, Grete Wold, Birgit Oline Kjerstad and myself, I am delighted to propose a compensation scheme for self-employed and freelancers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e156	The representative, Sofie Marhaug, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e161	On behalf of the Bears Moxnes and myself, I would like to propose a representative to slow down the export of power. On behalf of Lars Haltbrecken, Lan Marie Nguyen Berg and myself, I would like to make a proposal to stop the allocation of allowables on a Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e168	The representative, Naomi Ichihara Søkkum, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e174	On behalf of the representatives of Ingvild Wetrhus Thorsvik, Ane Breivik and Sofie Högestøl and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative to introduce an abject cohabitation law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e179	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e184	On behalf of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Tor André Johnsen and myself, I have the honour to make a proposal to ask the Swedish Government's Liability Commission to investigate whether the Council of State Knut Arild Hareide has violated the Liability Act §8(b), by failing to implement the Decision of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of 27 May 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e189	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e194	On behalf of the representative Seher Aydar and myself I promote a proposal for a dental reform to treat the teeth as part of the body.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e199	The representative, Seher Aydar, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e204	On behalf of the representative Bjørna Moxnes and myself, I would like to make a proposal to preserve Ullevål Hospital, Gaustad Hospital as a psychiatric hospital and to expand Aker Hospital as a local hospital for the whole of Groruddalen. I would also like to make a proposal to save the maternity ward in Kristiansund.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e211	The representative, Mr Kristjánsson, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e216	On behalf of the representatives Seher Aydar, Hege Bae Nyholt, Tobias Drevland Lund, Sofie Marhaug and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ban the manning industry, to remove the general access to temporary workers and to strengthen employee concepts and responsibilities. On behalf of myself, I would like to propose a representative to prevent AAP recipients from being thrown into poverty. I ask that this proposal be dealt with urgently according to section 39 of Stortingen’s Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e223	The representative, Tobias Drvland Lund, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e228	On behalf of the big business representatives Marie Sneve Martinussen, Sofie Marhaug and myself, I would like to make a proposal for immediate help with the power bill for people with poor advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e234	The representative, Mr Jørgensen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e239	On behalf of the representatives of Björn Moxnes, Sofie Marhaug and myself, I would like to make a proposal to repeal the Decision of the EEA Committee of 24 September 2021 on the incorporation of the acts contained in the European Railway Package 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e244	The representative, Hege Bae Nyholt, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e249	On behalf of the Björn Momnes, Seher Aydar, Audun Lysbakken, Freddy André Hövstegård and myself, I would like to make a proposal on profit-free kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e254	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e270	What is the State budget? Well, it's 13.5 kilos of political priorities told through large numbers and letter-rich sentences. But the figures and sentences can also be broken down into single stories, because the state budget is primarily a policy in practice, and politics is about people. Our priorities affect people's lives, people's everyday lives and people's future. In the millennium 2000, almost 60,000 children were born in Norway. Ida is one of them. She was born at a time when Norway made a plan for how to use the large oil revenues. The possibilities that lay before her were greater than any generation before have experienced. Economic growth in the last 20 years has been enormous. At the same time, our savings account has grown to levels that we did not dare dream of. We have more than seven state budgets in the oil fund. Today, Ida is on the threshold of adult life. The priorities we are doing now will have an impact on how her life becomes. In the state budget for 2022, the government builds on the direction we believe will give Ida, and everyone in Norway, the opportunity to create a good life and a most sustainable society in the future – socially, economically and environmentally. That year, Ida took its first steps — in 2001 — Norway peaked in the United Nations Lifestyle Classification. And then we've stayed there. Norway is the world’s best country to live in. As a country, we have good economies, we live longer and longer, and we have high education. We have confidence in each other and in the authorities, good coherence and small differences. But even in Norway, there are some outsiders. For eight years, we've been working systematically to include more, give more opportunities to participate, contribute and create what we're going to live on, what makes our welfare arrangements possible. Increased participation strengthens important supports in our society. We've captured what works: Giving all children a good nursery service works. Offering all students a good school works. Qualifying and integrating people works. Making sure that as much work as possible works. A good childhood gives us important tools to deal with challenges and seize opportunities later in life. With early efforts, we have made sure that children with additional needs receive better support already in kindergarten. With free core time in kindergarten for low-income families and increased child welfare, we have significantly raised the economy of families with children, especially those who have the least. And now we're proposing to increase the parental deduction for those who have more than one child. A child should not fall outside because Mom and Dad's wallet does not extend. In 2022, we're going to start a national roll-out of the card. Ida’s participation in organised activities has been of great importance to her development and membership. The school leisure system was also an important arena, where she made new friends and knew about being part of a community. In recent years, the government has introduced several measures to enable more children from low-income families to participate in the SFO. A good school is a school where students experience mastering and learning, but also demands, where teachers are qualified, motivated – and many enough. 49 000 teachers have been offered further training since 2013, and the number of qualified teachers in school has increased by 4 500 years. It's had an effect. Ida and her friends learn more. They are more in school, and more complete high school — eight out of ten. But we're not satisfied with that. Our goal is to complete nine out of ten by 2030. That is why we are now implementing the completion reform for higher education. Students shall be given more time and better adaptation so that more people can complete and pass. We also believe that high school needs to become more practical, better adapted to the opportunities that students will face in the future. We'll start next year by giving them an extra hour of science. Education is the safest way of working. A job creates security and opportunities for the individual and well-being of all of us. In the time that comes, we need more jobs. More people have to work, more people have to go from part-time to full-time, and more people have to work longer. In the next year's budget, we propose a separate deduction of work that can give young people under the age of 30 more than $5,000 in lower taxes. This is a targeted tax relief to motivate those like Ida to work, young people in the start-up phase with low income. It has to be seen in the context of other interventions to improve and improve the follow-up of young people. The aim is to reduce the number of people entering the labour market. We are also proposing to reduce the rate of excise duty on those with the lowest income. It will make it more profitable for many to work. With the government’s proposed government budget for next year, an ordinary family will pay almost NOK 16 000 less in taxes compared to the continuation of the 2013 tax level. For immigrants, too, the path to work and social participation must be shorter than it is today. We shall neither paint nor paint integration policies. Employment is lower among immigrants than elsewhere in the population, but many immigrants make an impressive social journey through our education system. Social mobility through education is stronger among young people with a migrant background than in the rest of the population. We have reformed the area of integration – with greater emphasis on education, learning Norwegian and gaining skills that can provide a job. It works. Several immigrants are now completing secondary school, and more children of immigrants are taking higher education. Education builds a basis for the future – for individuals and for us as a society. The Norwegian economy is out of crisis. Half the year after we had to close society, we've taken back our daily lives. With cooperation and power of action, we have been dealing with the steep economic downturn since World War II, and we have been doing better than most, both in terms of health and economics. Together, we had control of the infection, and the support systems were successful. We were able to maintain a strong business life. That is why more people are returning to work faster. Unemployment has fallen sharply, much faster than it did after the financial crisis and the banking crisis. Registered unemployment is well below the average for the last 20 years, and there is less total unemployment now than when the crisis broke out. Soon it will be 90 pst. completed by all adults. So even though the pandemic still creates uncertainty, the uncertainty is clearly smaller than before. With continued good health care preparedness and joint efforts, we are going to put the pandemic behind us. At the same time, we must not forget that the crisis has been shattered. We quickly initiated measures to help those who got the heaviest grades — those who lost their jobs, those who have mental health challenges, and those who lost important learning during weeks and months of home schooling. The pandemic – and all it brought with it – has put deep tracks in many. They will need extra help next year. In the budget, therefore, we give priority to measures to help include more people in the labour market, close knowledge gaps and help those who are struggling. Crisiss usually lead to people staying out of work. It's not going to happen this time. When the permeation figures shot in the weather during the pandemic, we replied, among other things. with the Education promise, with multiple training places, flexibility and competence measures at all levels of education. Many who have dropped out of high school have had a new chance to finish. Business programmes, professional letters at work and attempts at modular training provide skills for adults and the opportunity to learn throughout their lives. We have taken seven miles towards the goal that everyone should have the competence they themselves, and the businesses, need in the future. We have provided 1 600 new places of study at the technical schools and 4 000 new places of study at universities and higher education institutions. Parts of the Education Commitment will be continued in 2022. Although most industries have been successful through the crisis, they have had great consequences for those who live by our travel and that we meet. The cultural, voluntary and sporting sectors create life and cohesion locally and nationally. When society is opened up, government will create predictability and scope for activity by maintaining important subsidies. In addition, we propose to increase the allocation of a number of museums and cultural buildings and to establish a grant scheme for diversity and inclusion measures in sport and physical activity. 2008 was a top year for employment in Norway, but we did not succeed in raising employment among those living in Norway. Much of the employment growth in the years before 2008 came from increased immigration. Economic growth and exclusion have continued to live around each other. A few weeks after we shut Norway down last year, there were over 400,000 jobseekers. Now, a year and a half later, a lot of companies tell us that they're struggling with the labour force. We must avoid the shortage of labour becoming a bottleneck that dampens the ability of businesses to invest and create new jobs. Now we have a good opportunity to increase participation in the labour market. Although the employment rate among residents in Norway is the highest since 2012, there are still too many who are not in work. If we are to succeed better now than in 2008, more people need to gain the skills that businesses demand. If we do that, we can use the growth power of the Norwegian economy more to include more people in the labour market rather than to pick up new workers from outside. In our government period, it has become easier to combine social security and work, and it has become easier for unemployed people and has been more likely to spend time taking training that makes them better qualified on the day they return to work. This comes in addition to a significant effort on labour market measures to help more people return to work. We also make a major effort on skills measures so that more people can gain the qualifications that businesses need. That effort will be continued in the budget for the next year. The oil age has given us incomes and opportunities other countries do not have: thousands of jobs one of the world’s most advanced technology environments — not only in the West, but throughout the country a good education system; a good health service Good welfare services The whole country has been given access to wealth, but we knew that wealth would also present us with challenges – that the level of costs would rise, that revenue could quickly fail. It's easier to use more than to use less. Oil revenues rose and rose, until 2014. Then the oil price fell, and suddenly we were in a new business day, with change, unrest and uncertainty. Families lost income. State lost revenue. The oil companies lost income. But just then we saw Norway at its best. In Norway, we learn in crisis and adversity. We're the best when we have to think about new things. The oil price drop was the start of the conversion we knew had to come. But converting from oil proved easier than we thought. Yes, we lost income, but at the same time we laid the foundation for the course we are at now. The social partners took responsibility, the business community showed an impressive ability to streamline in a short time, and across the country it popping up creative environments and forward-looking entrepreneurs who created new jobs in industries we're going to live off tomorrow. Nearly one third of the employment in petroleum-oriented activities disappeared, but was quickly replaced by new jobs elsewhere. The Norwegian economy was suddenly much less oil dependent than before. The green shift is not something to come. The green shift has started too far, but is very close. Over time, we're going to move further away from the oil. Ida may occasionally be concerned, both for the climate and for what her generation will live on in the future. I'm sure it's going to go perfectly fine, not least because of the strong commitment her generation shows to these questions. We're going to solve both of these. Both industry and other industries are well equipped for conversion. Our cost competitiveness is much better now than it was in 2013, and we have never had a better starting point to combine the expertise in the oil sector with new green industries. During the coronary crisis, Norway proved to be at its best again. We met the crisis of transition and innovation. The opportunities that arose during the crisis will provide Ida and her generation with important tools to address the challenges they will face. We've taken major, important steps towards a greener and more digitized society, and there's been a record creation of many new businesses in our country. Our success recipe is that Norwegian companies are made up of solution-oriented women and men who are able to see new opportunities when they occur. And the strong cooperation we have between employees and employers creates a common understanding of the challenges and enables us to help each other in the same direction. With the State budget, we are making it possible for this positive development to continue – because it has to. Migration is about providing people with security to take the choices that move Norway one more step in the right direction. The government has worked systematically to improve the framework for Norwegian business. We have conducted a responsible economic policy that respects our competitiveness. We've simplified reporting, so companies can use energy and resources to create values instead of spending precious time on form fields. Since 2017, we have implemented measures that reduce the cost of business by 11 billion. kr per year. The company tax has been reduced from 28 pst. in 2013 to 22 p.p. Now, and next year, we will continue to escalate the wealth tax on working capital. It strengthens incentives to invest and reinvest in Norwegian enterprises and jobs. At the same time, we will increase the wealth tax on secondary housing. In 2013, you received lower taxes on wealth if you invested in an additional apartment than if you invested in a Norwegian company. Now it's the other way around. The aim is for a greater share of savings to go to business. We also propose a new and better option tax regime for those working in start-up and growth companies. This is a win-win solution. It will make it easier for small enterprises to recruit and maintain key personnel in competition with larger and more established enterprises, while at the same time implementing planned investments to enable them to grow and create jobs. We have developed infrastructure that binds the country together, and that is crucial for a business life where values are to be transported out into the market every day, into the world. We've also taken action that gives us more way and path for each of the heads. Both New Roads, rail competition and the reorganization of the state road system are examples of this. With the draft budget for next year, we will provide an even better train provision, road development and maintenance across the country, and better collective provision in urban areas. We have also prioritised measures that make it safer and more attractive to invest in start-ups and start-ups. We do that in this budget as well. The aid schemes in Innovation Norway and Export Funding Norway are continuing at a high level, and we are increasing Norwegian enterprises’ access to capital instruments through InvestEU – to mention something. When Ida is going to buy a new car, she buys an electric car. She does because it pays for her – and for the climate. Climate taxes and allowances set a price for emissions and make it more profitable for people and businesses to choose green, such as developing and investing in climate-friendly technology. And we see that it works. Emissions have fallen five years in a row, and last year they were at their lowest since 1993, long before Ida was born. And we're going down. In 2030, emissions will be half of what they were in 1990, and in January, we presented a climate plan in which we signalled that charges for non-quota greenhouse gas emissions should be escalated up to 2 000 2020-krona per tonne by 2030. This is followed up by a proposal to increase the non-quota charge by NOK 167. With such an increase every year in the future, we are reaching the level we have outlined in the 2030 climate plan. The revenues from higher climate taxes are spent on reducing other taxes, such as the traffic insurance fee and the electricity charge. We also increase the travel allowance, especially for those living in district municipalities. On average, they're going to get $2,700 lower taxes. In addition, we are increasing the compensation scheme for fisheries. This is how we take care of the positive effects of increased climate taxes, without making a huge contribution to the private economy of people. We are also proposing significant funds for the Nysnø, the Green Platform and the Langskip project. Now that Ida is entering adulthood, fiscal policy is also entering a new phase. The oil fund will not grow as fast as it has done so far. We have to get used to the fact that the increase in the space for action in the state budgets is decreasing. It will require tougher priorities from us politicians, smart priorities, which prevent the gap between spending and revenue in the state budget from becoming too large – and which prevent the economic risk from becoming too high. The rule of action for the use of oil revenues has served us well. Next year, 1 out of 5 dollars will be spent on the state budget from the fund. When the rule of action came into force, it was supposed to protect us from an unexpected fall in the oil price directly entering the welfare state. It's worked. The risk for Norway has decreased. At the same time, new challenges have arisen. The fund has increased sharply in a short time and has become so enormous that even a small correction in the stock market will mean a great deal in dollars and cents. We now have seven fat years behind us in the stock market. What if it's followed by seven lean years? This is because the low interest rates have driven up the prices of what we have invested in, but for a state with a large fund, lower interest rates are not really very good news. And it's bold to bet that the fund will continue to grow. On the contrary, we have to take into account that the fund can also fall. Only in the last few weeks has the fund fallen by 800 billion. kr. Values greater than an entire state budget can evaporate before we know the word. And we have no – none – guarantee that the money will ever come back. Next year, we'll bring down the oil money. That's right when it's good times in Norwegian economy. The output will again be down to 2.6 pst. of what we think the fund size is at the beginning of the year. It is the same level as in the original draft budget for 2020, before the crisis hit us. Then we have some kind of uncertainty buffer in the use of oil money. Even though the fund value would fall by 15 pst., we're still close to the direction of withdrawal. Such a way of practicing the rule of action is similar to the way in which we in other areas demand risk management and capacity to withstand losses — housing values, for example. When Ida buys her first apartment, she will not get a loan as much as the dwelling is worth. She will have to cover part of the home purchase with equity. It is because the bank has to take into account that housing prices can fall, and that in that case Ida will avoid getting into a situation where she has more loans on the dwelling than it is worth. We also apply such risk management requirements to banks and other financial corporations. The State is not entirely comparable to a private enterprise, but it must also take into account risks. Having an uncertainty buffer for the level of oil money usage is one way to do so. We've actually done it for a while already. With the exception of the Koronas, the government has spent most of the years spending on oil money under the guide line. If we had followed the guideline slavishly from 2013, the fund would have been 400 billion today. kr less. Ever since the fund and the action rule were established, there has been a broad consensus on the financial framework. It will also be a wise way forward. In any case, it seems that the phase-in of new oil money is mainly behind us. When we prepare the state budget in this room, the question of how much more we are going to spend for different purposes needs to be increasingly accompanied by the question of where to get the money. In the years ahead, if we're going to give more priority to one purpose, we're going to have to do less on another. Our country is full of skilled and dedicated teachers, doctors, police, midwives and other health and community staff. They go to work every morning to deliver good services to the residents. They give us security in everyday life. They make sure our society works. They give us care and take care of us when we are at our most vulnerable, and they put down a formidable effort to give our children the best start of life and a good basis for what awaits them in the future. The welfare community doesn't work if they don't get to do their job. Our job is to give them good assumptions, play them good. They're on guard for us. We have prioritised a strong commitment to health care in our time of government. Health cows are getting shorter. More people get faster help and better help. In this budget, we are making arrangements to continue the good development from before the pandemic. Psychiatric health is still at the top of our priority list. There are about 485 more psychologists in the municipalities now than in 2013. Also in 2022 we will strengthen the supply of mental health services where people live. With the quality reform Life throughout our lives, we ensure that older people get better health care, more community and healthy and good food. The reform of child protection, which will take effect next year, increases the professional and financial responsibility of municipalities for the protection of children. It should provide more children with the right help at the right time and a service offer that is more adapted to local needs. The trust in the police has increased steadily since we introduced the police reform in 2015, and the police survey shows that 94 pst. feel safe in Norway. Internet fraud, identity theft and traffic incidents are what people are most concerned about. Police coverage in Norway is now at its highest level in modern times, and response time is falling. In 2022 we will increase the appropriations for the police further. We also follow up the long-term defence plan with a proposal to grant 2.2 billion. kr for increased preparedness, response and endurance. We're a little country in a big world. As a rich nation, we have a responsibility to also stand up for others. The pandemic has hit many of the poorest countries particularly hard. Together with South Africa, Norway has assumed international leadership responsibility for the funding of corona vaccines for poor countries. Next year's priorities include: the global health of the aid budget and proposes a total of €1.8 billion. kr for vaccine cooperation. The aid budget we're adding is on 1 pst. of gross national income, in addition to 750 million. kr to a new climate investment fund to trigger investments in renewable energy in developing countries. In total, it amounts to 41.9 billion. NOK 2022. Norway is out of crisis. With the State budget, the government facilitates the small number of scars after the Coronapandemic, and for what Norway Ida will establish itself in, work, buy houses and cars and set up a family, offer at least as many opportunities as the society she has lived in her childhood and youth: a Norway where today's and tomorrow's businesses find the skills and capital they need here at home, so that they can create jobs and values we're going to live on from in the future a Norway where it is good to grow up, no matter what background you have a Norway that is safe to live in, wherever you live; Norway, which continues to be at the top of the living conditions surveys a Norway that takes its part in the responsibility for the world society and for our fellow human beings, whether in terms of climate, defence, health or other challenges that we must solve together; So what's the government budget? Well, it's 13.5 kilos describing our future, of everyday life -- which we now appreciate very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e458	The President will propose that the Minister of Finance's statement on the government's draft government budget and on the national budget for 2022 be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e472	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Prime Minister Erna Solberg has asked for the floor to give a message to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e479	The election of 13 September 2021 resulted in the existence of a parliamentary basis for a new government. So I'm going to the Council of State today at 8 p.m. 13 submit a request for a waiver to the government. I would advise His Majesty the King to address the head of the Workers' Party, Jonas Gahr Støre, as he is the Prime Minister's candidate for the two parties prepared to form the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-12.ana.ud373e484	Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
