ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e210	The representative, Mr Hemdal, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e215	On behalf of the major representatives of Kari Kønaas Kjos, Björn Laabak, Himanshu Gulati, Per-Willy Amundsen and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for measures for those who live on a secret or confidential address.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e220	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e240	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to four lines of response will be given after contributions from the member of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e247	I want to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation. Today, we have a legislative change aimed at creating a coherent healthcare service and an equivalent partnership between municipalities and health businesses, as described in the National Health and Hospital Plan for 2020-2023. The Committee has been consulted and all recordings are positive. KS refers to regions and health businesses that are already well under way and have established good cooperation agreements. It is particularly fine then for a real mound to hear that Health Fonna in Health West is being brought forward by the KS as a precursor in this context. Furthermore, more emphasise the need for in-flight evaluation and instruments to achieve the objective of legislative changes. We from the Workers' Party have been and are engaged in good interaction, and we want to introduce a trust reform in which employees are given more trust and increased participation in their own working day. We will reduce market thinking and target management in the specialist health service as well as in the municipal health service. In order to achieve good interaction, we also believe it is important to have strong public ownership. This is good for employees, and it is not least good for patients with a need for healthcare. The principle that the sick are given priority first is very important – and not those with the largest wallet. The Labour Party is pleased to implement interaction reform version 2.0 and here ensure that demands for e.g. quality, ICT solutions and deadlines are linked to the patient cycle. There we have high ambitions for a better interaction between hospital and community health services for the benefit of the patient. This is how people who get sick today expect to be met with a well-coordinated healthcare service. Here today's law change will help, but it doesn't come of itself. It needs to increase resources to make it work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e258	All patients shall receive a comprehensive and consistent, good-quality health and care service, irrespective of their country of residence, and whether the service is provided by the municipality or hospital. Interactions have been challenging, both within hospitals and between municipalities and hospitals. It's not good when patients experience being throwing balls between different instances in the system. The most important thing for them is that they get good treatment, not which body it is responsible for what. Interaction reform has had its child diseases, and it has been important to improve cooperation between hospitals and municipalities. In the National Health and Hospital Plan, which we debated and adopted about a year ago, the government launched the establishment of 19 health communities. The municipalities were also part of the team, and it was anchored in an agreement between the government and the KS. And now the health communities are going to be even better. Many regions and health businesses are already well under way and have established good cooperation agreements. It's about getting good patient paths across health companies and municipalities. Common sense of reality is a prerequisite for planning and developing services together. It is therefore very good when we now have a new requirement for the cooperation agreement that municipalities and health companies have to agree concretely on how to plan and develop services together. I think this is going to mean a lot for the trust between hospitals and municipalities, and that once again means a better and more coherent treatment for patients. With regard to a proposal from the minority, I would like to point out that the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is a Norwegian law. We have a number of provisions in health legislation that respect the principles deriving from the Convention on the Rights of the Child, including: it follows from the Patient and User Rights Act that children who are able to form their own views shall be informed and heard. The information shall be adapted to the individual assumptions of the recipient, such as: age and maturity. The same law provides for when parents can consent on behalf of their children and when children have consent competence independently of their parents. It is also worth mentioning the equivalency reform, where the government proposes to legislate a new child co-ordinator system in healthcare. The principles of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child to be heard, decisions on the best interests of children and the right to privacy of children are already well respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e269	We need the hospitals and the municipalities to talk. Many patients become caste balls between hospitals and municipalities. This law doesn't remove this, but it's a step on the way. We've seen terrible cases about patients who have been sent back and forth between hospitals and municipalities because you try to save money and thus forget that you have a goal, and that's helping patients, not just saving money. In several cases, SV has supported the health communities without support from the other red-green batches. It was a little bad to support comments with the right parties alone, but SV supports all good suggestions, wherever they come from. It is good that all parties in the Health and Welfare Committee now support bringing the health communities into a law. It is important that health communities are not fed on starvation, as this government has done in many other schemes. We believe that we need more resources in public health rather than tax cuts for the rich. If the health community gets enough resources, it can be a good arrangement, but then we need a new red-green government. I am promoting the proposal from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV to ensure that the law is in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child to be heard, decisions on the best interests of the child and the right to privacy of the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e280	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, then addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e285	The government wants to create a coherent and sustainable health and care service and an equivalent partnership between municipalities and health businesses. Better joint planning between municipalities and health businesses is crucial to achieving this. Today health enterprises and municipalities are planning and developing services within their areas of responsibility. It varies the extent to which they involve each other in their respective plans and decisions, and little joint planning takes place. Lack of cooperation in the planning and development of services may result in total supply not meeting the needs of the population. For example, the absence of coordinated planning processes related to rehabilitation services may lead to a reduction in the capacity of healthcare businesses without equivalent upgrading in municipalities – or vice versa. The result may be a gap between the need for rehabilitation services and the availability of services. My impression is that the processes associated with the conclusion of the statutory cooperation agreements have so far been more marked by a desire to split up responsibility than by the need to take a joint responsibility for a patient course which, in its nature, goes across health companies and municipalities. The aim of the legislative proposal is for health enterprises and municipalities to agree in detail on how to implement joint planning of services to patients in need of assistance from both levels of service and on how to specifically involve each other in their own planning work that is relevant to the other. In the National Health and Hospital Plan for 2020-2023, the government launched the establishment of 19 health communities between municipalities and health businesses. This is anchored in an agreement between the government and KS. In the health community, municipalities and health enterprises, together with representatives of the local decision-makers and users, shall plan and develop services for patients who need services from both levels. Better joint planning is one of the principles of the agreement. The proposed legislative amendment is thus an important measure to achieve the objectives of the health communities. The proposal received broad support in the consultation, and I am pleased that the Committee has joined the proposal. As the Committee and several hearing bodies have pointed out, this legislative amendment is not sufficient to achieve the objective of coherent and sustainable services alone. It is the sum of the measures presented in the National Health and Hospital Plan that will be able to achieve these objectives. At the same time, like several consultation bodies, I believe that the introduction of this legal requirement will help to strengthen the anchoring and obligations of both municipalities and health businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e298	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e303	The Labour Party has spent a lot of energy in this room worrying about the lack of follow-up to the interaction reform. This is, of course, the main means of providing seamless healthcare and strengthening interaction between municipalities and specialist health services. At the National Council for Health, Höie’s watch, the specialist health service has transferred more and more tasks to the municipal health service, without strengthening the municipal health service accordingly. The national audit reports have been clear on this. They say that the strength relationship between specialist health services and municipalities is uneven, for the benefit of health businesses – in their favour. What is the Council of State’s comfort to the local health service in this regard?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e310	I don't think comfort helps. What helps is to build up services, and that's what this government has done, by strengthening the local government's economy and, above all, contributing to a strong annual growth in health and care services, and in particular growth related to people with a high level of competence. What one sees, are the bets the government has had, among other things. as a follow-up to the first wholesale notification of primary health services, which is the main follow-up to the interaction reform. One of the challenges of the interaction reform is that it did not describe what municipal health and care services should be. That is why I am the Minister of Health who has provided the first major health service message, which has also been followed up by considerable efforts, not least on the competence of municipal health and care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e315	I'm glad of the answer. I am pleased that the government has been more detailed about what the local health service should take over. Patients in Norway today are not concerned with the level at which they should be treated. Therefore, the interaction reform has become an established expression among patients as well as employees — an understanding that it should be more seamless. But what is the reason why the government has not just used the interaction reform and developed it further? One could take it to a version 2.0 and use it as a tool, precisely because it's used out in the sector itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e321	We have taken out the things that we think were important to address when it came to the direction of the interaction reform, because it was a broad political consensus, but then we have made some changes to the instruments and the thinking. That is why I believe that the health community is a better concept, because unfortunately the interaction reform has become very strongly linked to the legal and economic instruments that the Stoltenberg government introduced. This has also contributed to the fact that the municipalities and hospitals have perhaps become more concerned about what they are not responsible for than what they can solve together. Therefore, the objective of the health communities is that municipalities and hospitals should work more together and be less concerned about where the legal and economic boundaries go, too many of the instruments of the interaction reform, as originally foreseen, created parties instead of partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e326	Thank you for a good proposal from the Council of State. But it's a problem, and it's not very clear that the child's right to be heard is in the law. We have been informed by the professionals – those who use the services – that the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is not being used so much. We have a lot of laws, and it's hard for many people to read all the laws, to follow them all the time. We therefore propose that it be very clear that when working with these children, you should follow the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child to be heard, decisions on the best interests of the child and the right of the child to privacy. Why wouldn't the government take this into this law?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e333	That's because, as the representative knows, this is very clear in our law. But the challenge may be greater implementation. That's why we work with it in a lot of different areas to ensure that children's influence on their own health care and that their voice is heard. It is also something that I hope that the health community will contribute – that children are raised as an area. One of the measures that have inspired this solution is the mental health provision of children in Health Fonna. There have been children and young people with a constant presence as premiscuous suppliers for the design of the service. It is a good example that now needs to be used extensively in the establishment of health communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e338	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e357	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to four lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e364	We are dealing with a proposition that is about changes in the Health Care Act, notification of health impairments that are important for road safety. There is a joint committee behind the vote. Today, doctors, psychologists and opticians are obliged to notify public authorities if a patient who holds a driving licence for a motor vehicle or an aircraft licence does not meet the health requirements. It is also the case that the health status must be assumed not to be short-lived in order for the obligation to occur. It is proposed that this obligation be extended to air traffic controllers. An overall committee endorses this amendment. Air traffic controllers have critical tasks of periodic intensity and pressure in the working situation. At present, health professionals have no obligation to notify relevant public authorities if a patient is unloaded or has the right to drive on board a rail ship or on board a maritime vehicle. The proposal proposes to ensure that health professionals are able to report on certain health deficiencies. This also applies to maritime and rail vehicles as well as to pilots. An authorisation is also proposed to provide for other groups to be eligible for notification. This is just it – a notification access. This is not an obligation but an opportunity to notify in a discretionary assessment that it is necessary to avoid injury. I would like to stress that the patient will be informed that such a message has been given. Today, there is an obligation for doctors, psychologists and opticians to encourage patients who do not comply with the health requirements to submit the licence or certificate. It has been proposed that this should be changed to an obligation to notify that they cannot bring about any means of release until the health status has improved. As I said, there is an overall committee that supports the position in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e381	There is today an obligation for doctors, psychologists and opticians to report if a patient with a driving licence for a motor vehicle or aircraft does not meet the health requirements and the reduced health status is not short-lived. The proposal proposes that air traffic controllers should be subject to this notification requirement. Air traffic controllers have critical duties in aviation and therefore, to prevent accidents, medical fitness is essential. The intention to minimise the risk to society also suggests that there should be access to notification in other professions where there is a high potential for harm. whereas this consideration must be weighed against the considerations of professional secrecy; In addition, the Government has made proposals for notification if doctors, psychologists or opticians consider that there is reason to believe that a patient who is unloaded or driving a maritime or rail vehicle has a health impairment that could lead to injury to a person. In the assessment of the occupational groups to be covered, the Government considers that there is a need to define what is strictly necessary. Provision has also been made for a permit for the Ministry to provide for other groups to be eligible for notification. The proposal implies that doctors, psychologists and opticians are allowed to notify if the conditions are met — not an obligation to notify. Reference is made to the fact that it cannot be expected that permanent staff, psychologist or optician have detailed knowledge of the tasks and the potential for damage of different occupational groups covered by the provision. Furthermore, it is not expected that these health professionals groups will have detailed knowledge of the health requirements for the different groups. In this connection, I would like to point out that the proposed reporting access is intended to be a safety valve. There are also other provisions designed to ensure that, due to their health, persons are not to pose a threat to road safety. Persons with work which is subject to a specific health requirement must, inter alia,: provide a health statement by a doctor authorised to carry out such examinations. These workers are also obliged to report to the employer in the event of health deterioration. The employer continues to have obligations to follow up such notifications. The legislative proposal will help to avoid accidents and dangerous incidents, and I am therefore pleased that an overall committee has joined the proposal that has been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e398	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e415	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to four lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e422	In the bill, the government proposes changes to the Health Personnel Act and the Patient Records Act. The changes shall facilitate cooperation and learning in healthcare, improve quality and improve patient safety. Health professionals can refer to a patient in treatment with current legislation, and information can be provided to collaborators when necessary to provide sound health care, but it is unclear whether the legislation allows for the sharing of information on a patient for other types of cooperation and learning in health care services, which we also need. The legislative changes proposed in the proposal shall clarify what is the lawful sharing of information in the service and facilitate better cooperation and learning. The proposal allows healthcare professionals to exchange information related to a patient with a view to supporting healthcare professionals in making health care decisions for another patient. The changes shall contribute to the proper training of health professionals and provide a clearer regulation of the exchange of patient information at morning meetings and in other interactions necessary for the implementation of health care. There has been consultation, how many people were concerned that this is being done in a safe and secure way. That's when we make all kinds of changes in privacy and sensitive patient information. But the proposition here provides access to health information that needs to be described as safe and that can be used for the development and future use of clinical decision support tools that we want more from. These changes allow establishments carrying out genetic studies under the Biotechnology Act to cooperate in the establishment of a treatment-oriented health register with interpreted genetic variants. It will help improve health care and increase patient safety. The Labour Party is particularly pleased that this comes into good legal framework. A unanimous committee supports the proposals. The working party believes that by facilitating the learning, cooperation and wider use of decision-support tools in healthcare, health care provided in the service can be of even better quality. The same applies to the proposed register of interpreted genetic variants, which should contribute to better diagnosis and thus increase patient safety. A minority want a public sample to review all healthcare information management, and I expect other representatives to argue for it. The working party does not support it at this stage or in conjunction with this proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e439	As the rapporteur said, I should like to make good on the proposal we are making in the vote. The centre party will support these legislative changes, but we need a note and a proposal that goes on an important input from the Norwegian Medical Association. They have a critically critical hearing statement. One agrees on the need, but they think that the proposed changes are not fit to achieve the purpose. They suggest that we ask for a holistic clean-up with several changes and adjustments to the proposed proposals, and then they suggest that a public selection should be set up to look at the regulation of health care information management in their well-being. They ask questions about what is now proposed, contribute to an extra-legislative fragmentation, and that it becomes too unclear what is involved in liability. So they show that today it is actually a challenge that the digital systems are not adequately organised to meet the need to protect information, to limit access and to secure the care of patients' rights. This is a very serious warning from the Medical Association. If it fails here, it's a crisis. The Medical Association also believes that it must be done and assessed more closely how patients' right to oppose transparency in practice is intended to be maintained. It's also a very important comment from the Medical Association. From this point on, I will include an additional suggestion in the setting. We support the proposition, but we suggest setting up a public selection to look at the regulation of information management in the healthcare system in its health care system, and that there are measures for the Storting that can help facilitate cooperation and learning across borders, but at the same time the need to protect information, restrict access and secure the care of patients' rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e450	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposal she referred to, from the centre party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e455	Research, development and new technologies help to create the patient’s health care. This bill will facilitate cooperation and learning in healthcare. The background for the case is that it is unclear to what extent today’s legislation opens up for patient information to be discussed in situations where there are more people present than those who treat the patient in question. In addition, the legislation allows little information on a patient to be used to provide health care to other patients in ongoing professional work. It is also unclear whether today’s legislation allows information on former patients and patients for whom no medical care is available to be used in training activities. This is now being opened up in this legislative proposal. This can contribute to the development of new methods, the development of new clinical decision-making tools, better training and the deployment of new technologies. At the same time, it is important to ensure a good balance between the ability of healthcare professionals to have access to records and the patient’s privacy. Therefore, we support that access to health information for one patient to provide health care to another patient is limited to providing this information only to doctors and dentists on request. With regard to the proposal of the Centre Party and the SV to set up a public body to look at the regulation of information management in healthcare, the government parties do not currently support this. It is true that there may be a need for a more comprehensive and comprehensive regulation of the area than an exemption from the obligation of professional secrecy, and it has not been given that all forms of aid for decision-making based on artificial intelligence should be regulated equally. But we believe that the derogation proposed here is an important start to a long-term work that could provide a greater knowledge base and clarity in today's legislation. In addition, the Directorate-General for Health, the Directorate for e-Health and the National Medicines Agency have been commissioned to review national framework conditions for the use of artificial intelligence. Health regions should also contribute here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e468	The research and use of new knowledge is very fast. We need more than just this proposal. We need more than just dispensation from the obligation of professional secrecy. SV supports the proposal to amend the law now, in order to facilitate the use of knowledge for better treatment for patients. We are also promoting our own proposal. We have to look at the whole thing, in terms of regulation and better digital systems, which we don't have. We need a public body to improve the mechanisms, to provide more help, more knowledge and more personal security. Norway is going to be hanging when we just patch on an old system that doesn't work well. The Swedish authorities have repeatedly proposed that basic health data be stored in Norway and owned by the public. It is important for control, safety and personal safety, but also for getting more knowledge and expanding a modern healthcare service that can help better. The Medical Association has proposed a public body and a proposal to promote SV together with the Centre Party today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e483	The issue that Stortinget is now dealing with deals with important clarifications and changes in the Health Personnel Act and the Patient Records Act. These changes will facilitate cooperation and learning in health and care services and strengthen patient safety. Account has also been taken of the patient’s privacy and the need for flexibility in health and care services. The proposal opens the way for a specific treatment situation to be looked up in a patient’s journal to provide health care to another patient. The proposal must be seen in the context of the proposal for a new legal framework for the establishment of treatment-oriented health records with interpreted genetic variants across establishments. The proposals provide a basis for health professionals to examine whether genetic variant has been interpreted in the past, irrespective of the activity in which the gene variant has been interpreted. It will provide better interpretation of the individual gene variant, better diagnostics and more effective treatment. The proposal also includes a new provision on the exchange of patient information in the occupational health and safety community. The aim is to support health professionals in making decisions on health care and to ensure proper training of health professionals or to implement health care in their activities. The proposal makes it clear that the obligation of professional secrecy does not prevent healthcare professionals from exchanging patient information at morning meetings and in other interactions necessary for the implementation of health care in the establishment. The proposal is not limited to the internal working community. Work communities may also be established across levels of health and care services or across public and private activities. Personnel working e.g. in multidisciplinary teams, could be considered to be a health profession. The proposal facilitates the training of health professionals both internally and across establishments. A limited access to a patient’s file is proposed to find out whether information about the patient may be suitable for teaching. For the protection of the patient's privacy and because it includes confidentiality-related patient information, the proposal does not include the use of information without the patient's consent or any other waiver of professional secrecy. It is also proposed to clarify access to the waiver of professional secrecy, so that health information can be used for the development and use of clinical decision-making tools in healthcare, where health professional considerations so require. This is of major interest to society. The proposals in this proposition contribute to the development of the patient’s health service, and I am pleased that there is a majority in the committee that supports these changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e502	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e507	National audit simulated data interference resulted in a high level of control of ICT infrastructure in three out of four health regions. The national audit also obtained access to large amounts of sensitive health information in all healthcare professionals. In this case, we get a troubling comment from the Medical Association that they are not sure that personal information is taken care of. So my question to the Council of State is, with the experience you have, from both the National Audit Office's report and the situation and events that have been out of health care, how can you be sure that personal information does not get confused as a consequence of this change as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e512	I think it's like two slightly different issues. This is about the access of healthcare professionals to patient information. There, of course, we depend on the integrated control mechanisms that are now in place, for example. that as patients we can go in and see in our electronic journal who has been inside and seen – that is very positive. But this is primarily about the culture of healthcare related to how to manage this kind of information. I generally see it as good among health professionals. There is a high level of awareness about the obligation of professional secrecy. With regard to the possibility of outsiders getting involved in our ICT systems, there is something that is constantly working to reduce the risk. It is also presented in the report to which the representative Toppe refers from the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e520	That's almost the same question. Hospitals have been leaking personal information in many of these cases. The duty of professional secrecy and the proposal of the government is good enough, but if the hospitals just taste good anyway, that's not good. What does the government do to get better systems, as the Medical Association has also requested? This government has run the country for eight years, and we've seen things that aren't good even now in the last year, so I hope that's the last year with this government. But I hope and want to know what the government is doing to build and get better IT systems in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e525	I am very uncertain about what the representative means that the hospitals like a sieve. I am not familiar with examples of personal data being balanced in this area. Examples of health professionals passing on or acquiring information that they should not have had about the patient are, unfortunately, the fact that our ICT systems are now making it more possible to discover it, while in the past, for example, was very difficult to track who had a paper file. But I almost have to ask the representative Wilkinson to clarify whether he believes that Norwegian hospitals like a sieve, because that is a very serious claim.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e530	We've seen several things, for example. domestic, where personal information has been leaked. It's been very difficult. There were several issues in 2020, and I think the Council of State has seen it, before the Riks revision made this report. I also understand from those who work in hospitals, that many of the systems are old, that they need new, better systems. Therefore, I just want to ask: does the government have any plans to upgrade the IT systems in hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e535	The last thing happens on a huge scale and has done it all the way. Where you have had the greatest challenges, you are in Health South-East, where you had big plans that were stopped, and where you lost time. Mr. Wilkinson is well aware of that. There is one thing I informed about in Stortinget. So that's enough in Health South-East you have the biggest needs, and where you've made a little more of a profit compared to the other health companies in that area. But there is a significant investment in ICT infrastructure in our hospitals. The example of the representative from the Inland region is an example from a postal record where, for a period of time, personal information was available but which was removed. But again – there’s something quite different than creating the impression that our hospitals like person-sensitive information like a sieve. I take that claim very far from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e542	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e561	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to four lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e568	Since 1995, Norway has participated in all EU health programmes. The programme we are discussing today was launched by the European Commission as part of a reconstruction package following the Korona outbreak in spring 2020. The EU4Health programme has as its overall objective the objective of contributing to the protection of European citizens from cross-border threats to health, improving the availability of medical devices, medicinal products and other crisis-related devices and contributing to the strengthening of the response and robustness of national health systems. EU4Health shall support actions contributing to more European self-production of medicinal products, medical devices and personal protective equipment, as well as to joint procurement and storage. There has been a written hearing in the matter, and no input has been received. A majority of the Committee supports the proposal of the Government. There is little doubt that the pandemic has become visible to us how dependent we are on international cooperation. Norway is a small country in the world, and we are vulnerable to supply. We are totally dependent on cross-border cooperation. Strengthening cooperation with the EU will be positive for Norway in several ways. Close ties with the EU will be important strategic in view of the future management of health crises and operational cooperation. Norwegian participation in such programmes will also be useful for Norwegian research communities. Previous participation in such programmes has proved to be very fruitful for Norway, and not least Norwegian researchers have much to contribute to European cooperation, which can benefit all countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e579	The Corona outbreak and pandemic have shown us that we are totally dependent on having good cooperation with other countries in Europe. There is no doubt that it has put us to the test, and that this proposal, the programme in which we should participate, makes sense. What should be emphasised at the same time is that it could be good for everyone to get an overview of what the actual costs of what we have been involved in since 1995 have been. The Progress Party supports the proposal precisely because we are in a pandemic, and it would be quite unheard of not going into it, because it is also about preventing future crises. I would like to correct the proposal of the Progress Party. The new proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with a cost overview of all quotas, participations, projects and actions Norway is, or has been, part of the EU.’ We want this because it's the way that many streams grow up to be small. And it might be good for Stortinget to get such an overview.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e593	The representative of Morten Stordalen then addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e598	The centre party does not currently support the consent to participate in the EU Regulation on Health Programmes. We are some of those who believe that cross-border cooperation in health policy is important, especially when we know that the main health challenges are cross-border: antibiotic resistance, pandemics and market supply failures. When it comes to this matter, we think it is completely unclear whether the programme involves extended powers for the European Commission compared to today, and we believe that this is also very little mentioned in the proposal. We also note that the Programme provides that the Commission may carry out the procurement of goods and services on behalf of the participating countries in the Programme and adopt acts to implement the objectives of the Programme. What this can mean by negative consequences for Norway is also not problematic. It is also a very important point for us not to support this today, and it is that the proposal for consent to include the fourth EU Health Programme in the EEA Agreement will be discussed in the Storting before the issue has been addressed by the EEA Committee. It is in the same way as with a number of other EEA cases in ours, but the Central Party believes on a general basis that matters should be dealt with in the EEA Committee before they are submitted to the Stortinget. Norwegian participation in the fourth EU Health Programme has potentially problematic aspects that have not been clarified. We think it is unclear what the consequences of inclusion in the EEA Agreement will be, especially if it involves the transfer of authority to the European Commission. We therefore see no reason to agree to this until the cases have been finally discussed in the EEA Committee. That's the background to the proposal we're making, which I'm now addressing. And then I'd like to inform you that the Center Party can support the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e611	The representative Kjersti Toppe then addressed the proposal from the centre party and the SV to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e616	We have an EEA Committee to deal with EEA matters in order to get good information before we bring in new laws. SV cannot accept urgent legal proceedings without the law being dealt with by the EEA Committee which we have decided to have. We propose to send the whole law back, so that we can process the law well later. SV supports the proposal of the Progress Party in the case since it has been amended.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e621	I will first be allowed to thank the President-in-Office for a good cooperation in the course of this matter. I am very grateful that Norway, a small country outside the EU, is allowed to participate in just those types of programmes from the beginning of the process in order to be able to participate in the influence. We should be there from the very beginning because we can affect the device etc. and do not miss out on the first releases. So to the proposal: Personally, I think it would have been more interesting to know what it would have cost Norway if we weren't involved in just these programs. Therefore, the Labour Party does not support the proposal in the case of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e628	The Covid-19 pandemic has shown the ring-effects of a health crisis on all parts of society, locally, nationally and globally. The pandemic has shown how dependent Norway is on cooperation with the EU. Acquisitions of vaccines are just one example. As the EU develops and equips itself for future health threats, it is important for Norway to participate in order to reduce our vulnerability. The new EU Health Programme, EU4Health, is an important element in this strengthening of European health preparedness. The programme is more than ten times as large as the previous health programme. The Programme has overall objectives of contributing to the protection of European citizens from cross-border threats to health, improving the availability of medical devices, medicinal products and other crisis-related devices and contributing to the strengthening of the response and robustness of national health systems. Participation in EU4Health will be an important contribution to strengthening Norwegian preparedness for cross-border threats to health. Participation will also promote European cooperation on common public health challenges and contribute to achieving the UN’s sustainability objectives on good health and quality of life and the global objectives of preventing and limiting non-infectious diseases. The Health Programme will finance a number of practical actions, including the EU's ambitious cancer plan. Experience from the pandemic shows that in many areas Norway is dependent on the European joint solutions. When the EU now strengthens its efforts to address future health crises, this is something that Norway should participate in. The Ministry of Health and Health is in the process of establishing an enhanced governance model to ensure that we get as much back for our participation in this important programme. Norway has cooperated closely with the EU on health since the conclusion of the EEA Agreement and has participated in all EU health programmes. EU4Health is a cooperation programme similar to the previous programmes. Health policy remains a national competence. Participation in previous health programmes has been useful for Norway. Norwegian trade unions have contributed to further development and research in important fields. Norwegian participation in the EU Health Programme EU4Health represents a strategic choice for further Norwegian links with the EU's strengthened health preparedness and preventive health work. The corona pandemic has shown the importance of European cooperation, and no country can cope with such major health crises on its own. With long-term public health challenges, we benefit greatly from European cooperation. Norwegian participation has been considered very important, and I am very pleased that a majority in the Committee has joined in the vote on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e639	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e670	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to eight lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e677	One of the most important tasks of the welfare state is to provide safe and good services to those most in need. The government has presented the equivalency reform, which should focus on the supply of children and families with children in need of complex services. The goal is all some in that these should accept related services, be the head of your own life, have a meaningful everyday life and experience care and inclusion as a relative. There are also these four inputs that are included in the plan and that will help us achieve these targets. The government wrote that the reform would take place between 2019 and 2023. The message shows you both implemented, pending and new actions. Several public reports have revealed the need for an equidistant reform, and we have had many debates here in Stortinget. For children and young people with disabilities, there is a particular challenge associated with inadmissibility and lack of user involvement. Although a joint committee is behind the intention and, to a large extent, some of the measures are taken, the message is also criticised for being too little concrete, and for many of the actions being even more outreach, new reviews, more knowledge-raising and alerting of several action plans and key messages. The concrete legislative changes are presented in Prop. 100 L for 2020-2021, which we are also debating today in this overall debate. A proposal for a legislative change is that one will help to improve the processing of personal data in order to achieve the objectives of better welfare services for children and young people. It is also proposed to clarify, harmonise and strengthen the sector’s duty to cooperate, and that the obligation to observe and provide information to the Child Protection Service should cover all those who provide services or work under the Training Act and the Health and Safety Act. A proposal that I would like to make is the proposal for statutory cooperation agreements to extend to children and young people with needs. A number of members of the Committee will go further and ask for the appointment of the right of children to health and co-ordinated services. These parties will participate in their contributions. The proposal for a child coordinator has received the highest attention. A decision shall be entered as both an obligation and a right. The proposal shall be wound up by a single committee. The right to a child coordinator shall apply to families with children, or who are expecting children, with a serious illness. At the same time, it is proposed to establish the right to the established coordinatorship we have today. Many parents find that the information about the services and the help system is incomplete, random and personal, and that it is those themselves who must be their own coordinator and find out, trigger and coordinate the help they need. Many people also feel that help is too scarce, that it is too fragmented and too under-coordinated. The hope is that the right to a child coordinator will enable parents to download and help manage their needs at any time. A single committee stresses that the requirement of "seriousness" must not be interpreted too strictly. In this setting, the Centre Party is in annotations where we point out that several hearing authorities are having problems with the fact that the responsibilities of the child coordinator and the responsibilities of the existing coordinator system may be unclear. We also write that it is a general challenge in today’s healthcare system that the Stortinget legislates new patient rights without any special consequences for patients, however, because the scheme is not funded and is not offered. An example is the contact medical system and the right to co-ordinator in today's specialist health service. We are also making a proposal for full funding. With that, I want to discuss the proposals of the Center Party with the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e700	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e705	Many people with disabilities and their relatives receive too little services and organisation, and the services are too fragmented, as the rapporteur also said, and the legal certainty for the weak. The working party lacks the effective measures in what has been presented. If the government wants to improve the situation for people with disabilities, it is strange that the government parties in Stortinget voted against incorporating the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities – CRPD – into Norwegian law. Contrary to the objective of the peer review, the CRPD covers all situations and age groups. If the situation of people with disabilities is to be changed, the measures must be financed. Equivalence reform is an attempt to settle bill without a host, as I see it. From chapter 8 of the message you can read: ‘The implementation of the reform shall be a horizontal condition within the framework in force at all times for municipalities, health undertakings, departments and the underlying establishments of the departments.’;» [[...]] Prior to the co-equity reform, it was possible for municipalities, health businesses, departments and agencies to do everything they could and that was not illegal. That's still the way it's going to be. When the situation before and after the reform is the same, it is difficult to see the reform itself. The coordination of the service provision is a repetition of the equivalency reform. Recently treated Stortinget Report. St. 21 for 2020-2021, The Completion Reform – with open doors to the world and the future, about the secondary school. In the message, the government announced no action against students with disabilities, this was to be investigated later. This despite the fact that NOVA presented in 2014 a research report showing that 64 pst. of children with physical disabilities not completing secondary school, against 17 pst. by the group of pupils. Many municipalities are struggling with a weak economy. Municipal budgetary procedures become a question of where to cut them. When little services are provided, this will appear to be uncoordinated services. Such situations are not solved by law paragraphs or investigations, but by strengthening the finances of municipalities. Law and regulation can be, but need not be, an effective instrument. Coordination of services is largely governed by the right to an individual level and the right to a coordinator. A search on Law data shows at least 27 laws and regulations that provide for individual levels. There is no doubt that there will be more coordination of several laws. The aim of the interaction reform and the individual plan was to ensure seamless services for those with complex needs and coordinated services. The need for equal opportunities reform can be understood as the government’s failure to follow existing measures, with the same objective as the gender equality reform, for example. individual plan and interaction reform. Having a job to go to, doing something of value and having good colleagues is very important. In most of our lives, we're at work much of the time. Among people with developmental disabilities, there are a few who have a job. If you mean something about equivalency, you have to emphasize the right to have a job to go to the about 40 years of work we have. The Labour Party has a proposal together with the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up models to ensure a seamless transition from high school to VTA for young people who need it.’ [[durable work]] I would like all parties talking about equivalency to support the proposal. We also have to treat Prop. 100 L, dealing with a number of changes in welfare service legislation. My associate Haukeland Liadal will come back to this in a later article on that matter. But it is worth noting that there is a weakness that the housing situation and the need for organized housing are not detailed in the government's equivalency reform. There is a need for a power cap to secure the housing situation for those in need of complex services. Now the government has the chance to do something about this, but they don't have that chance. I take up the proposals from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e743	The representative, Tore Hagebakken, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e748	There are always many families who live a completely different life from most families. Families living with children with disabilities and/or chronic illness face the same challenges as families most, much more hectic and unpredictable. We've strengthened the rights of relatives, we've got rights-based user-driven personal assistant, we've strengthened the care system, and we've been raising children's palliation as an important investment. But we're still told that it's hard to figure out rights, opportunities and offers. There is still a struggle to be seen and heard, and there is still a lack of coordination and predictability. The reform strengthens the fact that action is not limited to the health and care sector or education sector, but aims to contribute to coherent services across sectors and levels. An equivalised reform must be about giving the child and the siblings the best possible life. Parents need their own time and strength to work. The proposal proposes to legislate a child co-ordinator scheme, to strengthen cooperation between welfare services, to extend the system of regulatory cooperation agreements and to harmonise the rules on individual levels. It is positive that the government is working on clear language, a national plan for rare diagnosis and a new strategy for increased digital participation and competence. The Progress Party strongly supports the objective of having families who have or are awaiting children with serious illness, injury or disability as head of their own lives. It means for us coordinated and seamless solutions, participation and freedom of choice. The Progress Party promoted, during the examination of Document 8:3 S for 2020-2021, proposals for necessary legislative changes to bring Norwegian legislation into line with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. A coordinator will be important to relieve families. Co-ordinators can help to find out about different offers and help write applications. A contact family arrangement shall be established for pregnant women awaiting a diagnosis of children so that, in addition to medical information, families may be offered a similar family experience. For a time, I rely on the following example: a family of young children with both parents in work and the smallest child with great help needs and sometimes life-threatening illness. The family was granted BPA in the morning so that everyone would reach kindergarten, school and work, as well as equivalent in the afternoon in order to make dinner, help the elderly with homework and drive for leisure activities. But in kindergarten, the municipality had decided that the child should have a different assistant. So every time the child was sick, and every day the kindergarten called and said that they had to pick up earlier because the child had become ill, the parents stood without assistance. Instead of having a BPA as a bisto all day, the BPA experienced a busy everyday life, the child had to deal with more people throughout the day, and it gave zero flexibility for the parents, who tried to work. There are such bad solutions that I hope we won't see any more of them. The work done by relatives must be recognised, and relatives must receive the assistance and support they need. It is therefore good that the government will establish a separate grant scheme for developing more flexible forms of relief. Many families with children with complex needs spend a lot of time fighting with the auxiliaries. Families are subjected to an additional burden by having to take time to appeal against decisions that are often converted through review procedures. It is an additional burden that the handling of complaints takes a long time. The Party shall promote proposals to ensure that the time taken to deal with the matter is reduced. Several hearing bodies have requested that children and young people have a right to integrated and coordinated services and that it is not sufficient for the welfare service to have a duty to cooperate. The Progress Party is promoting proposals to that effect. Furthermore, the Party of Progress is concerned that the requirement of seriousness may lead to a discussion as to whether the disease and disability are serious enough to fall within the scheme. The Committee stresses that the requirement of seriousness should not be interpreted strictly. In addition to the regulatory change, there is a need to work on actions that contribute to the implementation and use of the individual plan in line with the intention. This is a fight we've been in for very many years, and that fight just has to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e763	Equal opportunities reform could be a reform of equality and freedom. But with this message and the bill, it won't be. Much of the case is the estimation of actions undertaken and planned strategies. There is one measure that would give more equality and freedom, and it is taking the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, CRPD, into Norwegian law. We've made so many obstacles for many. Schools and hospitals are not well organized. Public language and information are not good enough. We have to bring the CRPD into Norwegian law to strengthen the rights of disabled people. It'll change our country for the better. That would be a good equilateral reform! SV cannot promote CRPD since the Stortinget voted it down in the past, but we are promoting several other proposals, and SV has a majority for two. SV supports and puts in place a scheme with a child coordinator, but in the proposal there was no proposal to provide comprehensive services for children. That's not good enough. Several organisations, such as the FFO and the Children’s Ombudsman, are asking for children and young people to have a right to integrated and coordinated services. Together with the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, the SV shall be given a majority duty to provide this service. We have a system for institutions to learn from mistakes, so we have a complaint mechanism. The problem is there's so much queue. An example of this is that two years after the sister's death, Ghazi Syed and the family have still not received a final answer to their complaint. It's terrible for this family – and others – and also very bad for the country that we can't learn from our mistakes because the mistakes are hidden in a big paper pile with the state administrator. SV is given a majority to reduce the number of complaints and to speed up the response. That's good! We get a majority for several other proposals in the case, but we should talk about rights – all the rights in all the laws. We have so many rights in the country. The problem is that many of these rights are just paper rights. It's only those who have the opportunity and the knowledge to complain, who get the rights they're going to have. It's going to be a difference machine. I got the rights I should have when I was ill, but I had to complain a lot. Many people don't know what rights they have, and then the rights become just for someone. This right to children's coordinator can help, but only if we prioritise resources for it. If not, it'll be like many other rights, just a paper right. That is why SV has put forward proposals, along with the red-green parties, to finance the scheme, and I am asking the Christian People's Party and other parties to vote in favour of the proposal. This should not just be an electoral campaign. It should be a real right. This case could have been an equidistant reform if the government parties and the Progress Party would support incorporating the CRPD into Norwegian law, but they would not. I am promoting with this SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e784	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, then addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e789	Norway is a welfare society that most of us experience as good and that gives most of us a good starting point. But in some areas, there is a need to do things better. Children and families with children in need of complex services face a number of challenges in everyday life. Through the peer-review and changes in welfare services legislation, we want children and children’s families in the fundamental life events to experience security and predictability. The aim of the peer-to-peer reform is for everyone to experience a society that sets up, where each of us has the possibility of personal development, participation and life-exploitation. User-controlled personal assistance, the BPA system, is important to many. Government Parties agree that the BPA should become a gender equality tool and work is under way to investigate this with a view to making the necessary changes. The investigation has been delayed due to the coronary apathy, and it is of course boring, but I have great faith that by doing a thorough and good work in the investigation, the changes that can follow will be the best possible, so that the BPA system gets better. Knowing that you're going to be a parent can be both nice and scary at once. For some, pregnancy also means that you are told that you are waiting for a child with special needs or that the child is diagnosed in pregnancy. Seeing how everyday life can be can be difficult. The contact family system should not be seen separately; you should be able to see it and experience it. A peer-to-peer system such as this should be able to provide information and support to prepare for the life to come. For many in society, the number of public services is limited through weeks, months and years. For others, each day consists of different public services, and many parents and guardians of children in need of complex services report that they spend a large proportion of their time coordinating this offer. We can't have it like that. That is why I am pleased that a right to children's coordinator is now being legislated. Parents shall be able to take time to be parents, not just to administer them. The coordinator will assist in identifying all assistance services, applications and providing coordination of services. The provision of public services in Norway is large and diverse. That's good. At the same time, the complexity of services does not contribute to the experience of those receiving many services. Therefore, there is now an obligation to cooperate for a number of public services. The task of coordinating and identifying the service provision is not something that individual family or parent should be responsible for. These measures will also allow them to put it into practice. I'm glad that the Christian People's Party got an impact on both the Children's Coordinator and an equidistant reform together with the other two government parties in the Granavolden platform, and I really look forward to working on this. I would like to mention in particular the current investigation work, with a view to making the BPA system both a gender equality tool and a better system, and I look forward to putting that work into practice. I believe that this equilateral reform will mean a difference, and I'm very pleased that we've made it through.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e804	Our starting point is good. We have a well-developed welfare state, with good services, financial arrangements and rights. But even though there are many good arrangements, not everything works as well. We get feedback that many people who have or expect children with severe illness, injury or disability have challenges in their everyday lives. Many experience stigmatizing and negative attitudes. Non-participation and limited ability to influence and manage one’s own daily life are reported. There is also a lack of coordination and coherence. It shouldn't be like that. Equal opportunities reform and the legislative proposal to provide better services for children, young people and adults in need of complex services should respond to the challenges these families face. The aim of the co-reform is for families and children in need of complex services to experience a society that makes up and needs everyone. Everyone shall have equal opportunities to live an independent life and participate in society in the same way as others, regardless of the level of function. Through the peer-review, we will help families and children in need of complex services to experience security and belonging, and to experience hearing, seeing and listening to matters relating to them. In particular, the meeting services available and competent to provide good and coherent services shall be provided. The aim of the reform is for children and families with children in need of complex services to receive coherent and good services, to be the boss of their own lives, to have a meaningful everyday life and to experience care and inclusion as a relative. We're taking a lot of steps to succeed in this. A central measure is the legislative adoption of the new Children’s Coordination System. Parents should avoid having to fight against the system and use valuable time to find out in the form field. The coordinator’s guarantee will be important in order to relieve families, for example: identify all assistance services, assist with applications and ensure better coordination of welfare services. The proposal on the child coordinator is part of the proposal for a joint strengthening of cooperation between welfare services, which is also being discussed today. The good cooperation of these services is essential for children, young people and adults to have the services they need. The Minister of Knowledge will examine this proposal in more detail. Many people experience that they are either uninformed or that the information is difficult to obtain and inadequate. Lack of information can lead to the individual not getting the help you should have, nor asking for it. We will therefore simplify documentation requirements and assess regulatory simplification. It is a goal that we should avoid having to document regularly that permanent conditions are still permanent. We want to be a society where people with disabilities can participate in the same line with others. Barriers preventing participation in work or education must be reduced. Through the peer-review, we will focus on an inclusive working life and have therefore provided a number of long-term job opportunities for people with disabilities. We are also working on measures to improve the transition from school to work. Parents of children with severe disability and illness are related to large care tasks. Relatives are important and need to be recognised and supported so that they can provide the help and support they want for their loved ones, without themselves being worn out. This is why we have, among other things: set up a dedicated family strategy, set up a contact family scheme and pursues the efforts of the related programme. These are some examples of measures that can make everyday life easier for the families concerned. No children, young people or their families should feel like a burden. We must combat visible and invisible barriers like each one of them. They will be taken seriously and met with respect, so that they can live an active and independent life in a society that needs everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e824	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e829	It is a challenge in the health service that many of the dishes adopted in Stortingen are not followed up in the services. The patient coordinator is such an example, as we know that the Council of State was concerned about when he was a wholesaler. The contact doctor’s right is a right that has been introduced, which is not followed up in the services – at least that’s the clear impression I get. What you're concerned about now is that you're introducing a child coordinator, which is actually not a new right, because there's already a coordinator in the municipalities for those with complex needs. How will the Council of State ensure that the child coordinator is a real offer for the families who need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e834	This is what we will do through the amendment of the law that is taking place in Stortingen today, but also, of course, through further follow-up in the budgets relating to the resources that this requires. The amendment of the law that is taking place in Stortinget today is quite different from some other changes in the law that have taken place in this area. So this has a real content different from today's coordinate system. One of the most important changes is that we simply do something that is not very common: we recommend the Stortinget to make a decision that involves regulating how the municipalities are going to solve a problem. There is a high barrier to doing, because normally the municipalities are going to do the kind of assessments themselves, but here we go quite far in regulating how the municipalities are going to provide this service. It is precisely based on the experience that today's coordinator system is not working well enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e841	In this case, there are many proposals on how to make the obligation to coordinate the supply of these families better, including: with the coordinator and duty to cooperate. But there are many of these who report that there is too much supply out in the municipalities, for example. lack of relief, one cannot travel on summer camp, as one has done, because of economics. There's a lot of such stories out there. And this reform doesn't really care about it. It's very dependent on one having a strong local economy. How does the Council of States intend to ensure that everyone is provided with the services they need when it comes to relief?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e846	I do not agree that this reform does nothing about it, because we are very clear on that. This is a big message that we started working with for a while. The Equal Opportunities Reform has worked with the government in parallel with the Storing Message. This means that we have not been waiting to take action on the road even while we have been working on the message, and the work on this reform does not stop by the message being adopted. That's actually when you're strengthening the work. This means that the changes we have made, including: on different schemes for both the relief, holiday and strengthening of the economy of families with children, all of them part of the co-equity reform – as is the strengthening of different arrangements for permanent organised work is part of the co-equity reform. So this is a big message that the Storting treats today, and that gathers and forms a common direction for a work that, in total, will contribute to the contradictions that lie in the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e853	I am still amazed that the government parties are so strongly opposed to incorporating the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, that is, the CRPD. I would like to hear the Crown argument of the Council of State to go against such an incorporation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e858	I just want to stress that it is not my constitutional responsibility, but the crown argument against doing so is simply that we believe that these rights are already respected in Norwegian law. That's what the crown argument is.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e869	I said in my post that the Workers' Party lacks effective action, which I would like to see in the message that has been submitted. What is the Council of States' view as the greatest weaknesses in the message that Stortinget is currently handling?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e874	I do not see any obvious weaknesses in this staging message. What is important is that we continue the great work of following up the message. It actually started before the message was submitted. It will require effort. In particular, much effort will be required in the departments and between departments to clean up some of the reporting legislation that these parents particularly experience as a demanding one. It is often the case that we have good welfare arrangements in Norway, but sometimes our eagerness to check that schemes are not abused, or that they are used in line with the intention, becomes so great that eventually they are felt almost as a burden in themselves. There is a lot of hard work for both me and my colleagues to continue working to implement this reform even after the Stortinge has adopted the big message. Then I hope the government will be allowed to continue that work beyond this fall, because that is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e881	The proposals for legislative changes are particularly targeted at children and young people. So my question to the Council of State is: how does the Council of State ensure that a practice is established which respects the right of children to be heard, that children must be given a free speech before considering whether cooperation between services is necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e887	I believe that this is respected in the laws and regulations that we have today. Then it is important that it is followed up in practice. We need to keep paying attention to that, because we know that it doesn't always happen. But it is absolutely central that it is also followed up in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e892	BPA should be a release tool, not a health tool, as it is now. I have seen that the government also believes that there should be a gender equality tool, and SV very much agrees with the government in this. But now we've been waiting for years. Solberg has been running this government for eight years. We have not received a proposal to change it for BPA to be a gender equality tool. Can the Council say when a proposal will come? Will a proposal come before the elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e899	It was the government's original plan that the NOU should be finished at such a time that it could also have been presented in this context, but unfortunately it has not been possible. The committee itself has requested, in several rounds, that its time limit be postponed for work. These include: related to the Corona situation. Several of the members of the sample are, as the representative probably understands, in a situation of life where isolating is important under a pandemic, and I have chosen to listen to the desire to spend more time on that work. I think we should all respect that. This government has strengthened the BPA system – unlike the government in which SV was involved, which for eight years has been exercising the statutory right to personal assistance. It was one of the first important reforms the government carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e906	I also have a question about BPA and holiday. We know that in many municipalities, those who need BPA have to pay almost everything by themselves. It's very expensive. I think and hope that people need some vacation even when they have a disability. Does the government have any plans to finance a new scheme that anyone who has BPA can get more help to travel and have a holiday elsewhere in the country or abroad instead of just in the city they live in?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e911	I expect that the work now being done in the public body will also look at the issues. It is part of the mandate. In connection with the statutory right to personal assistance, the municipalities also received significant amounts. There is every reason to believe that the municipalities have not used these amounts to strengthen the BPA scheme in line with what was intended, and what is also written in a circular way, as the situation is now, with today's legislation, is my strong call for municipalities to think all the way through what is the purpose of this scheme – that's exactly what the representative was in, it's an equality and liberation tool – and also use the system according to that intention. There is an absolute room for that according to both the circular and the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e918	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e923	Today, the size should address proposals for several legislative changes that together will provide better services for children, young people and adults who need a complex service provision. I am pleased to present proposals for a joint strengthening of cooperation between the child protection, kindergarten and school sectors, the health sector, the labour and welfare sectors, the family protection offices, the crisis centres and the introduction system. The good cooperation of these services is essential for children, young people and adults to receive the services they need. All these services must have a statutory obligation to cooperate and cooperation must be an integral part of the provision of services. In order to achieve this, the Government proposes to legislate on a common obligation to cooperate when this is necessary in order for individuals to have a comprehensive and coordinated service provision. The Government also proposes to extend the system of statutory cooperation agreements between the municipal health and specialist health services to include children and young people with complex difficulties and sufferings receiving services from both levels of government. Today, it is not always clear who should coordinate or coordinate the provision of services to the individual. Many people experience that the different public services do not talk together and that no one takes on a full responsibility. In practice, it is often the recipient himself or the parents who need to coordinate private, municipal, county and state services. The Government therefore proposes to legislate for the municipality to coordinate the provision of services to persons in need of integrated and coordinated services. This implies that the municipality must define the welfare service to coordinate the individual. We believe that such clarification of the coordination responsibility will facilitate cooperation between services to work in practice. For families who are awaiting or have children with a serious illness, injury or disability and who will need long-term, complex or coordinated health and care services and other welfare services, the Government proposes to introduce a right to a child coordinator. The proposal is part of the government's equilateral reform. The goal is for these families to experience a society that sets up, where they are taken care of and included. Parents shall be able to spend more time on parenting and less time on administration. There are many families that are currently struggling to find out in the various welfare services that are available and that need more help and relief in a difficult everyday life. These parents are really everyday heroes. It is important that they know that they are not alone. The aim of a child coordinator is to ensure that families get a simpler everyday life, but also to ensure that children are offered the services they actually require, so that they also get a better daily life. We see that there are differences in how individual levels are used by the various welfare services. The Government therefore proposes to harmonise the rules on the obligation to provide individual levels of child protection, health care and the labour and welfare sectors. We also propose to legislate individual plans under the Child Protection Act as a right that can be invoked, as is the case under the other laws. For several of the other welfare services, we propose to legislate an obligation to participate in the preparation and follow-up of actions in the individual plan. I also refer to Report. St.25 for 2020-2021, The Equal Opportunities Reform, which states that there is a need to work on measures that contribute to the implementation and use of the individual plan in line with the intention. The government will assess whether the individual plan works according to the purpose. It is not sufficient that the services cooperate on individual matters. Welfare services also need to cooperate in order to prevent challenges. They need to help each other identify young people, young people and adults with challenges and to establish comprehensive services. Under current legislation, many welfare services are only obliged to cooperate with other services when necessary to fulfil their own tasks. The Government therefore proposes legislative changes that would oblige welfare services to cooperate even when necessary for another service to perform its statutory duties. Together, the government believes that these legislative changes will strengthen the follow-up of vulnerable children and young people and their families through more cooperation between welfare services.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e948	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e953	I mentioned in my post that 64 pst. of young people with disabilities not completing secondary school. It's a serious high number. For the total group, it's 17 pst. What has the government done, and what does the government think about such a big societal challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e960	As the representative pointed out in his statement, the Stortinget dealt with the reform of completion yesterday. There we have devoted a section to this particular challenge, and there we are also quite clear that the offer to these students is not good enough today, that we also do not have sufficient knowledge of what is needed to improve the offer, and that we therefore want to start work on a separate strategy aimed at these students. It is also the case that very many of the measures we promote in the communication will also be of great benefit to students with disabilities, including those with disabilities. that we are now extending our jurisdiction so that it is no longer limited in time, that more tailor-made races can be made to suit the needs of the individual, and that we give the county councils clearer obligations to follow up the individual much more closely. These are measures that will benefit all pupils, but in particular those with special needs. So I have great faith that the completion reform and the strategy we are going to come up with will help to ensure that several of these students will also have a real opportunity to complete higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e967	To use the Council of State vocabulary: I have great faith that the local economy would also have meant a lot. What has the Council of State done in government to strengthen the local economy, so that much could fall into place? No matter how you turn it around and turn it around, there is a clear link between lack of coordination, lack of good services and lack of adequate local economy. So I'm going to be unscrupulous enough not to say how much more there would be in that box if we had run.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e975	Now, during my entire Council of State, I have been part of a pandemic, and what we've been very clear about all this time is that the municipalities would be well compensated for the expenses they've had. This concerns both the municipalities and the county councils, and all the calculations that have been made so far show that they have. It is clear that this is essential for the provision of fully basic services, including services aimed at the group we are talking about most today, namely vulnerable children and young people, children and young people with disabilities, children in need of special education. Obviously, many of them have had a hard time under the pandemic. There are many of them who have not had the services they normally have. That's why, over several rounds, we've also allocated earmarked funds directly to these kids. In sum, I think we're going to sum up that the municipal economy is good. Fewer municipalities have major financial challenges that make them on the ROBEK list. Otherwise, it is also important that municipalities make good priorities to ensure that children and young people have good growth conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e982	Then I'm going back to my first question: 64 pst. So, of those with disabilities, they end up in high school. What percentage will please the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e987	The goal we have set for the completion reform is that at least nine out of ten should complete secondary education. It includes all students, no matter what kind of starting point they have. It is important that we make a high school that is adapted to all these students. Something is what we do in high school, but a lot is also about what we do in previous years in school. Two years ago, the Stortinget adopted the Stortingen Storingsmessage Tight on – early effort. Some of the most important steps we're doing there are just moving money from state level down to municipalities by making Statped sharper and narrower and providing a level of competence around the municipalities in special education. That is what we are doing now, from this year on. I think the most important thing is that the competence is just in the municipalities, as the representative also points out, so that students all over the country meet people who have competence and are able to help them with the challenges they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e994	I'd like to continue a little bit where Hagebakken escaped. He brought this up with the fact that too many do not complete the further education. I've met a part of them myself, and what happens when a person stops, is that a person sits around without any activity, no work, no organized work. It's quite doubtful to see. One thing is that an end to education, but one is also sitting at home. The center party has been concerned that if one ends before, but also if one completes, a few have to make a seamless transition to a permanent organized work when it is quite obvious that the person needs it. That is not a question. I would like to ask the Council of State if it sees it as a task to ensure that there is such a seamless transition, so let's sit home for one year, two years, three years and wait for an activity in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1003	I think I will repeat some of my answer to the previous question, because it is clear that the measures we are now going to take after the adoption of the completion reform will lead to higher education that is more adapted to the needs of the individual, which will provide more tailor-made arrangements and will provide more opportunities for use, for example. more time. A decision in Stortinget yesterday was to extend the so-called practical letter system. We also have other schemes, such as the teacher candidate scheme, which we are committed to continuing to a greater extent than today, which will also ensure that students with different needs are given more opportunities in higher education. I have now moved into an area that is not my constitutional responsibility, so I'm going to be a little careful, but the government has recently gone out in RNB and said we're going to have more places within permanent work, and we've also been very clear that there's a bet we want to continue after the election, if we get a chance to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1010	It's nice to talk to ministers other than Bent Höie, who is also a very competent government council. Equal opportunities reform could have been a reform of equality and freedom, but it is not, because we cannot get the CRPD into Norwegian law. I know that the Council of States represents the Left, which is to get the CRPD into Norwegian law. If the Left had voted in favour of the proposal, we would have obtained a majority and a mechanism to get the CRPD into Norwegian law. That is why I have to ask the Council of State: what other solutions have been negotiated by the Left? They negotiated off the CRPD for other solutions, e.g. tax cuts for the rich or free treatment choices to privatise schemes. What good arrangements have the Left got in, seen from their point of view, in order to negotiate away the CRPD?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1019	There's a lot we're proud of on the government platform. Among other things, we need to: later today consider proposals for a drug reform that would have led to help, not punishment, for those who have the greatest challenges in our society. It's among the things I'm proud of. Then I think it is a little important to clarify the following regarding the CRPD: Norway has ratified the CRPD, and that implies an obligation that we should meet all the requirements of the Convention, regardless of the way in which the Norwegian law is implemented. Although the Left has previously voted in favour of the proposal to which the representative refers, I believe that those rights are already well respected today. It is also the case that, in the examination of the proposal, to which the representative refers, the government parties promoted a proposal to investigate the incorporation of the CRPD. Unfortunately, that proposal voted against the majority, the opposition, so that we did not get a majority in favour of it. It was our opportunity to ensure further progress in that matter. I think it is very bad that the bulk of the population did not seize that opportunity and secure the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1028	We've figured this out before. Why do we need to investigate a system that we have investigated before? We have to get it in place in Norwegian law. But I have another question. The Children’s Ombudsman and the Community Organisation for the Disabled (FFO) have said that they would like to have integrated and coordinated services for children and young people. That is why we have proposed this. But we see that the government parties have said that they will vote against, and that the government has not proposed to get comprehensive and coordinated services in the law. Why does the government not want to promote this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1035	The whole law is about precisely holistic and coordinated services. That's the whole basis of the law. Where I perceive that there is a disagreement, is whether an individual right should be introduced or not. That, I think, is more a question of what we think is right to ensure that those children and young people get the services they require. If we legislate this as a right, it will mean that a single decision must be taken for the child to receive whole and coordinated services. This can lead to a very strong red tape of this offer, and it will soon mean that we use resources to take individual decisions and deal with complaints instead of using the resources to provide individual services and to cooperate and coordinate the service provision. So I mean it all, the most important thing is that we now adopt whole and coordinated services, and that we use our resources on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1040	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1059	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1066	I want to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee. There are not so many from the committee present right now, all thought there was a matter between the previous case and this case. It is a unanimous committee that is presenting the vote. This is about reports that have been controversial for a long time and that have been raised legitimate questions in practice. What this bill does is to ensure quality assurance of the mandates and reports of experts, and we hope that this will give greater legitimacy to the use of the reports. But those who are at the centre of everything we do in the area of child protection are the families, the children concerned, the families that it affects, and our hope is that such quality assurance will help to increase the quality basis of the reports, but will also ensure that the decisions taken and the measures taken are based on proper assessments and not on vision or a weak basis. I don't think there's so much more to say from my side, but we'll see if there's going to be a big debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1073	The next speaker is the Council of State Kjell Ingolf Roppstad. Governments must use their assigned 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1080	I'll try. Parental justice is about parents who are in deep conflict with common children. This may include, inter alia: relate to community barriers or allegations of violence and abuse. In these cases, it is important that the court has a sound and sound basis for deciding for the best interests of the child. The expert reports provide knowledge that the court lacks, and they often become crucial to the judgment. The proposal to which the Stortinget now subscribes implies that the Children’s Expert Commission should consider expert reports on parental matters, as they already do in child protection matters. The Commission is an independent body and may make comments when finding shortcomings in a report. In this way, the Commission contributes to the limited value of reports that do not meet sufficient professional standards as evidence in legal proceedings. It contributes to better legal certainty for children and parents. It is a problem that the quality of the expert reports on parental justice varies, and that low quality is not always revealed by the courts. This can have major consequences for the young and the parents in the case. It can also lead to a weakening of public confidence in general and in experts and in justice in particular. In the ultimate sense, this can lead to wrong decisions and to children growing up in harmful care situations. The legislative proposal also allows the Ministry to lay down rules on the requirements for the mandates and reports of experts. A good and clear mandate for the expert's work is a prerequisite for the report to give the court a professional perspective on the matter. This will help to clarify the matter to the correct extent and width. In this way, the Commission’s expert on children will also have a better starting point to assess whether the report responds to it. An overall committee expresses the shared concern expressed in the legislative proposal on the quality of expert reports. And I'm glad that the whole committee is behind the proposal. The thorough and broad investigation of the case leads to the process of parental justice to become more sound and consistent with human rights. The changes now adopted by the Grand Duchy will improve the quality and trust of the experts and the decision of the courts in matters of parental responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1095	I'll just say that sometimes my jam goes fast in Stortinget as well. We're dealing with a law today that's important, which means a lot too many. There is no doubt — there is too much variation in the quality of the expert reports in parental cases. There is also no doubt that there are too many serious errors and that it creates a distrust of the scheme. The Labour Party has long been concerned with legal certainty for children and parents in response to the Norwegian administration and that the best interests of the child and its legal certainty have not been properly followed up. There are too many errors in matters that concern many children and families, and some errors have very serious consequences for them. After several rounds, we were given a majority to set up an expert committee to review the legal certainty of all aspects of child protection. It took some time, but now this selection is down, and that's good. It is superfluous that as a community, we strive to the best of our ability to care for our children in the best possible way when they are subjected to carelessness, violence and abuse, or when they stand between their parents in serious parental conflicts. The Government is now proposing that expert reports be subject to the same quality control as the Child Protection Expert System and are to be assessed by the Commission’s Children’s Expert. It's a step in the right direction. The Working Party has noted that there are also major challenges to the Expertise system under the Child Protection Act. And in 2020 was 25 pst. of the reports of the Commission on Occupational or Methodological Inadequacies, which may have implications for the assessment of the cases. And there's too many mistakes. The expert system for the protection of children is also subject to criticism, including: there has been a situation in which the expert has had too close ties to the protection of children. As a result, the Workers' Party has proposed to strengthen that system in several stages. Our primary objective has been to link the entire expert system to the courts and to make it an application-based system. In our opinion, it had given greater certainty for impiety, and the follow-up and guidance of experts' work had improved. We haven't had a majority for such a system yet, but today Stortinget is taking a little step in the right direction. All expert reports are now to be submitted to the Children’s Expert Commission, and the Child Protection Act, which we will be considering in a few days’ time, proposes that funding should also be linked to the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1114	Every year, 20,000 children experience family disintegration and parental disintegration. It's a tough and very vulnerable time for all these kids, but also for the parents. Some of the parents do not agree on the distribution of association with the children. Parental cases often end in the courts, and expert reports are used to settle disputes about association. Such reports have been controversial. This applies, inter alia, to: the content of the reports, and claims of low neutrality — or bias, as it is called — have been made, and biased in the weighting of views of those preparing the reports. There is also wide variation in the reports, and it was pointed out in the 2017 public inquiry on the need for specialised courts. It is important that there is legitimacy in reports on disputes about association. I am very pleased that there will now be a change in the Children's Act, and the Storting must rectify relations in the law that can make practice better. The Ministry specifically proposes that the Commission assess the quality of expert reports in parental proceedings before the courts can use them as evidence. This is the same as in child protection cases. This law and this act will enhance the quality and legal certainty of the decisions of the experts and the courts in criminal matters. The Ministry also appoints members and may prescribe how the Commission is to be organised, what tasks it is to perform and how matters are to be dealt with. This also strengthens the formal framework of the expert’s work on parental justice. In the event of a break in life, children have the right to be with both parents – if there are not very special issues that warrant something else. Parental matters are very demanding for all the children affected, and not least for families involved. At the same time, children should not feel that they are being deprived of the opportunity to be with one parent because reports are not good enough when they come to the courts. In addition, the right believes that in the case of a new child law, which is certainly coming to Stortinget in the next session, there must be a principle with a distribution of 50/50 pst. in the case of both association and residence. This means that we will have fewer such cases in the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1131	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1148	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1155	After a little waiting time, the Ministry of Children and Family has proposed to give all parents free access to postpone parental leave until the child reaches the age of three. The parental pension scheme is governed by the National Social Security Act and parental pension funds shall ensure the income of parents in the context of birth and adoption. The main features of the parental pension scheme are described in more detail in the proposition presented by the Ministry, but also in the case that we are dealing with here today. Today, it is necessary to ensure that parental leave is taken out consistently. However, some groups have the right to postpone parental leave. This applies, for example: persons working full-time or taking out statutory leave. However, this rule of continuous withdrawals has led, inter alia, to: some fathers have lost parental custody because they have applied for deferral too late. Fortunately, the changes proposed in the proposal and the case we are dealing with here today mean that all parents now have the opportunity to postpone the parental killers, regardless of what they have to do during the postponement. This also gives parents who work part-time, who study, who participate in labour market measures, etc. an opportunity to postpone parental leave to a time that suits them best. The main objective of the proposals is simply to increase the choice of parents and families when they want to withdraw parental leave. These proposals will also, in particular, prevent new cases of loss of acquired rights by parents because they have applied too late. In addition, the scheme makes it easier for parents and easier to administer for Nav. As the rapporteur on this matter, I am very pleased that we are now an overall committee that ensures parents the possibility of postponing parental leave, regardless of what they had to do during the postponement. It's nice that the committee has just come together to give families greater freedom of choice in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1170	This proposal proposes a number of legislative changes aimed at making the withdrawal of the parental killers more flexible. These changes shall facilitate the removal of the parental brooders at the time that best suits the family. That's very good. It is definitely positive that, in the light of the changes, the legislation should appear more easily and less bureaucratically and also make the arrangements easier to manage for Nav. The fact that many fathers and mothers have missed valuable time with their children during leave due to current legislation is a situation we cannot accept. So we in the Center Party are concerned that both parents should be equal as caregivers and believe that it both takes leave and is at home with the child, strengthens the relationship between mother and child and father and child, thus giving children the best conditions for good growth. At the same time, labour relations must and should also be ensured for both parents. Of course, work is important for both parents, even when the leave period is over, for the safety of the family’s financial capacity to carry is also important for the child in the long term. So a flexible regulation that can be better adapted to the situation of parents there and then, we believe is an important and fundamental position. The changes in the laws we adopt today take into account many factors that may affect the withdrawal of parental leave. Something will simplify red tape for more parties. One particularly important element is that part-time workers have the same opportunities as full-time workers. We in the Center Party are happy for that. Finally, I would like to point out that this time when the children are so young and need close and good follow-up and relationship building with their parents, it goes quickly. It is therefore also important to clarify in the law that the withdrawal must take place within the child’s age of three years, so that the withdrawal is not unduly extended in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1183	We in the Christian People's Party believe that society should be built from below, and that the family is the most important, most fundamental unit in our society. The fact that parents have time and opportunity to follow up their children is crucial for a good upbringing. We know that a good childhood lasts life. I am proud that we have a government council that puts the families first, and that now makes the legislation related to parental death better and more accurate, so that even more parents get more time with their children. It is very good that all parents now have the opportunity to postpone the parental killers, regardless of what they do during the postponement. In this way, parents who work part-time, who study, participate in labour market measures and the like, are given the opportunity to postpone their parental retirement leave to a time that is more appropriate. Yes, parents get greater freedom of choice. In particular, this change will prevent new cases of parental loss of acquired rights because they have applied too late. In addition, the scheme will make it easier for parents and easier to manage the employment and welfare situation. We in the Christian People's Party hope that this change will help more parents to use their right to take out parental custody. Yes, for the Christian People's Party is just considering the children and the family more important than any other consideration. All our family policy solutions assume that families are different, that children are different, and that they therefore need flexibility and freedom of choice to organize their own lives and get their everyday lives together. That's why the Christian People's Party will continue to work to make the leave system better and better. In the government, we have also been able to extend the parental leave period for parents who have premature children, born not later than the end of week 32, and we have also increased the leave period for twin and twin births. At our national meeting at the latest, we adopted a more flexible and more flexible leave system to help parents get more flexibility to make the choices that best suit them. We in the Christian People's Party will strengthen the families of children, and this change we now have in place will definitely benefit many families of children. That is why I am pleased that an overall committee agrees with greater flexibility in the withdrawal of the parental killers. So, of course, we're voting for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1198	We are so lucky that we have had politicians in Norway who have realized that it was important for equality and for women's ability to participate in the labour market that there were welfare schemes that made it possible to combine having a family, having children, and working. That's why we have the best parental leave system in the world, where parents can be at home with the child for a year after birth. It's unique in the context of the world. In most other countries, mother has a few weeks or a few months of unpaid leave before having to return to the hamster wheel and to work. Those kids are doing well too, you get it, but it's clearly a great well-being we have here to land. The parental leave scheme is flexible. The fact that we are now giving everyone the opportunity to take out the parental killers until the child is three years old is to close a hole again. Someone didn't have a chance, but most people have had the opportunity to do just that. It is a matter that was prepared by the red-green government, it has been waiting for a while, and it is good that we adopt this today, so that it will apply to all. This also means that today's distribution of parental leave with a mother's quota, a father's quota and a common portion that parents can choose for themselves how they take out is even better. We often hear from the right that it is so inwardly difficult to get paper issue out, but when you can then take out paper issue a few days, weeks or months apart that you want until the child is three years old – yes, it should be easy to get to. I'd like everyone to be able to do whatever they want with that time. But it's important that fathers get their share of the leave. We know – and all experience shows – that when the Dad quota is reduced or removed, fathers are not allowed to take leave. This is because many mothers consider the leave to be theirs or that employers consider the fathers invaluable or unavoidable at work. I even had leave in June last year, just before my son turned three years old, because I had saved a month, and there was a fantastic time with a little guy who soon turned three years old. So that's a very good decision we're making here today. Now everyone gets the opportunity to do this, and it also makes the parental leave easier to take out for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1209	It's good that we adopt a law that makes it easier for parents to deal with the state systems, because it may seem very quirky that when you're going to go in and apply for periods where you're going to be home with your child, you have to know how to distribute everything in a year, and you have to know that at the time you send it in. We believe it is important that the law recognises that the situation of life can affect the ability of the family to take out parental leave. Although the parental pension legislation is initially flexible and allows parents to defer and grade the money over a period of three years, some parents feel that the legislation is not adapted to their situation and has some limitations that appear to be poorly justified. Therefore, we are pleased that this proposal ensures that all parents are given the opportunity to postpone parental withdrawal, regardless of what they do during the postponement. Whether it's part-time work, whether they're students with exams, or they've got a place for practice — yes, there's nothing to say for this scheme. It also means that no family shall lose any of its rights as a result of the difficulty of understanding the legislation. I think that's an important thing to add to the law, so families shouldn't be left as losers of precious time with their children because there's been things in the law and our management of it that haven't been as easy to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1218	Families are different and children are different. That is why we need flexible legislation on leave that gives families freedom of choice and flexibility. The Stortinget proposal for treatment today will provide parents with new opportunities to postpone parental killers to a time that is better suited to their families. It will provide greater flexibility for a time that too many are both hectic and demanding. From 2007, an important change was made to allow parents in full-time work to postpone parental leave. This is a popular scheme, and it is approx. half of the fathers availing themselves of this possibility today. In the proposition, we're proposing to give the same rights to those who don't work full time. This could be done, for example, by: be parents who work part-time, or parents who study. The government is committed to facilitating flexible arrangements for families, and with this proposal more parents than at present are able to choose a different solution than to take out the parental carers for a continuous period of time. This will make the system simpler, and it will be better adapted to the needs of the different families. Due to the current rule that the parental killers must be removed continuously, many fathers have lost parental days. I myself have had great pleasure in being in paperwork and having those months with my kids. It has therefore made a big impression on me to read the stories of fathers who have lost earned rights and time with their child. I am therefore pleased that there is an overall committee that supports the government's proposal, so that we avoid families losing valuable leave weeks, and get a regulation that provides a much more flexible and simple system that allows families to choose for themselves when they want to take out the parental leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1229	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1246	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1253	Today, we rejoice that the labelling of reticent advertising is finally introduced, and we rejoice that young commitment and activism can lead all the way to goals. In 2010, many different youth organisations and youth parties joined forces to create a broad front against the advertising industry making money on the poor self-esteem of young people through Photoshop and advertising that shows totally unattainable ideals of beauty. Youth against Retusert Advertising was founded that year. Until 2018, young people have gone out and glued alerts to photoshopped ads that can lead to body pressure. The demand was that advertising with the retouching of the models should be noticed, so that those who are exposed to the advertisement see that this is not real. In 2018, the report Projekt came perfectly from Press – Save Barna Youth, which shows that 43 pst. of all those involved in the study agreed that they know about body pressure in their own everyday life. Previously, we knew, among other things, that: on the report Retusion advertising and body pressure from SIFO, which shows links between advertising, body pressure and mental health. That was the background for me and SV to promote a proposal for a representative on, among other things, the introduction of reticent advertising labelling in 2018, which was adopted. I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee on the matter we are dealing with today, which is the government's follow-up to the 2018 request decisions, and I would like to thank the Minister for Children and Family Affairs for a good follow-up to the Storting decision. The proposal implies a statutory obligation to label reticent or otherwise manipulated advertising where manipulation results in a deviation of the body of persons in advertising from the reality, enforcement of the labelling requirement by the Consumer Authority and the Market Council, inclusion of body pressure as a criterion for assessing good marketing practice, and a number of additional measures against body pressure. The proposals received broad support in the consultation round and there is a broad majority behind the position today. It's a pleasure. After eleven years of young involvement in this matter, we can state that it is useful when you go together to raise a case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1268	Thanks to SV, who raised the matter, and to the representative of the Supreme Court, who has been the case rapporteur for this case. When I grew up, we used to say that a picture does not lie. But today it's not like that. Now we can no longer see if a picture is real or false, because the technology has become so good that it is almost impossible to separate. Retreaded images are quite common in the advertising industry. A keypress edits the images used to sell products. They must create a perfect look, where people get narrower waist, larger dolls or thinner thighs. Such images of unnaturally edited bodies meet children and young people every day in a society with ever-increasing advertising pressures. Today, social media and access to information are particularly vulnerable to social pressure and to unwanted marketing and advertising. Much of the advertising becomes expectations of children and young people about what they should actually look like. When you can't distinguish between what's edited and what's not edited, it creates a false image of what's a normal body, even though at times some of these bodies may look completely natural. Advertising industry's reticent images contribute to increased body pressure and unhealthy ideals, ideals that allow young people to feel dissatisfied with their own bodies and get unrealistic expectations about what to look like. The working party believes it is serious for children and young people to become mentally ill or to be plagued by the experience of not complying with the ideals of beauty of the advertising industry. I'm happy with today's decision, because it's part of helping raise awareness, changing the focus on appearance and preventing body pressure. Three years ago, as the rapporteur said, a proposal was put forward in which we went along with the SV, the Central Party and the Christian People's Party, which is the background to this matter. An overall committee voted in favour of the proposal, but it has taken more than three years to come back to the Storting. Now, first of all, it's going to be a change. The working party is concerned that we take children and young people's mental health very seriously. That is why, in recent years, we have been promoting a number of proposals, which unfortunately have been voted down. We have proposed the adoption of a separate action plan against body pressure, the ban on advertising for cosmetic surgery and measures to limit advertising in public spaces, for example. by establishing advertising-free zones in close proximity to schools. These are proposals that the Right, the Advance Party and the Left have voted against. Fortunately, the Christian People's Party has been a little bit more concerned with the topic, and it was through their support that we received a majority of the Workers' Party's representative proposal for a more regulated market for cosmetic injections. Here too, the Right, the Left and the Progressive Party voted against the proposal. But today is a good day, and we are satisfied with the proposal that lies in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1289	We are pleased that the department has spent a lot of time, because this is a complex field of action. With this proposition dealt with by the Committee, we amend Section 2 of the Marketing Act, where advertiser and designer of advertising are to ensure that advertising where a body's shape, size or skin is altered by retouching or other manipulation is marked. The Ministry lays down detailed rules on how advertising is to be labelled and on exemptions from the obligation to make a trade mark. The addendum to the provision allows for exemption from the obligation to make a trade mark in the regulation. It is not any change in the manufacture of an original that should be subject to the labelling requirement. In that case, ordinary editing would constitute a trade mark obligation. If all the advertising is noticed, the message that is in the labelling could be lost, because you become blind because all the advertising is marked. Therefore, exemptions from the general obligation to make a trade mark are cases where changes are made which cannot be considered as contributing to the pressure of appearance and must be included in the regulation. As changes that do not have to be noticed, one might think of removing an unfortunate twig or that it is made on makeup, as well as changing the hair shape. The provision also allows for detailed rules on advertising marking, i.e. the location and size of the marking and the appearance of a standardised marking. With this change in the marketing law, Stortinget also adopts a clarification in Section 21 of the Act, in particular on good marketing practice for children, point (b). When it is to be assessed for marketing to children in accordance with Section 21, it must, among other things, emphasis is placed on whether the marketing is based on social uncertainty, a lack of conscience or lack of self-confidence. With the changes we are adopting today, body pressure will also be part of Section 21(b), and this makes the law clear. You could say that one of the unfortunate consequences of young people being on social media as much as you are today is that you often become passive recipients of impressions, where the very amount of these poses a great danger that young people develop a distorted image of the body. This law will apply to marketing by Norwegian companies. Instagram is more of a global network of image sharing, so the law will not apply to everything consumed, but it sets a standard here in Norway. However, we also see countercultures internationally in social media, which capture celebrities who edit and reveal their own images. These accounts have many followers and are picked up by, among others. Sladdremedia. I'm very happy that the department has spent a lot of time on this, because it's very complex to say what kind of advertising is contributing to body pressure. Then it's important not to introduce marketing denials against all kinds of pretty ladies who have a nice body, and that they should also be allowed to market products in magazines.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1312	Unfortunately, there is no doubt that many in Norway, and many young people in particular, both in Norway and elsewhere, experience body pressure and that we have challenges with eating disorders and other things that can be associated with this. But it's not just through advertising that you can be exposed to that kind of body pressure. You also see it in social media, like Instagram, in music videos and in other parts of our pop culture. For this reason, the Progress Party believes that what is proposed here is probably a small effective tool to tackle the challenges that we all agree on must be tackled, such as body pressure, eating disorders and related challenges. I would quote from a chronicle that Julianne Ofstad had in the VG a few weeks ago. There she wrote: "We live in an international world, and a very large part of what we see and those we follow in social media are not Norwegian." As I mentioned, it's not only advertising we're exposed to, but also social media, videos and other things. Much of the content is not Norwegian either and is therefore unlikely to be affected by this type of decision. The progress party shares the intention to prevent body pressure in society, but unfortunately, we have also had body pressure before, both before advertising became as widespread as it is now and before social media became as widespread as it is now, and we will probably have these phenomena regardless of how much we are exposed to this kind of advertising, and regardless of whether we notice reticent advertising or not. We therefore believe that the proposal is a disproportionate intervention compared to the assumed impact of the measures. We believe that there are more appropriate ways to combat body pressure, eating disorders, related mental distress and other similar challenges, with more targeted efforts, awareness campaigns and not least help for those who experience these disorders and are plagued by it, regardless of whether it is due to being exposed to reticent advertising, or body pressure that is experienced due to other circumstances.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1326	This proposition has come true. I have been waiting for it since I was present at the presentation of the findings in the report Project perfect, as Press – Redd Barna Youth, presented in 2018. It had so much serious in itself that there is a great reason to be very happy that SV raised the issue, that there was a majority in the Stortinget for the request proposal, and that today we are simply adopting a law that can improve the situation of the body pressure to which children and young people are exposed via advertising. So many as 43 pst. of all those who participated in the Project perfectly agreed that they know about body pressure in their everyday lives, and that feeling was reinforced by the tendency of advertising to misrepresent what is the right picture of shape, size and skin color. Advertising is a lot of, of course, on television and in other traditional media, but also on the websites and social platforms where young people live most, for hours a day. It is therefore problematic that this group should feel wrong or inadequate in relation to its own body, because advertising often displays body ideals that are either improper and/or unrealistic, as well as little nuanced. We have to limit the possibilities for advertisers to misrepresented children and young people with a leftover impression that only some shapes, sizes or skin colors are defined as within. Yes, it is high time we made it clear that driving with such a negative impact on children and young people's mental health is out of the question. Year after year, young data have told us about an increasing proportion of young people with mental disorders, and they also state that there is a significant statistical overlap between all those who experience mental health disorders and those who are dissatisfied with their own appearance. We in the Center Party believe, hope and believe that the changes in laws we are making today will help bring down these gloomy numbers. We are now looking forward to well-produced advertisements in the future, how diversity and space to be different are put on the agenda, as it should have been done a while ago. Fortunately, we see traces of it in some of the summer commercials of the big chains, and it delights me. Also on social media like TikTok, a platform with many very young users, who have an extremely high level of body focus, there are calls for more and more accounts that promote diversity and body-positiveism. But, unfortunately, there are few. These accounts are in a minority, and I think the big community has a task of trying to figure out how we're going to interact with all the more or less professional influences and influences that continue to contribute to a negative body pressure. But we have to take one step at a time, and today we took this. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1339	Every day, girls and boys, women and men are subjected to body pressure from countless advertisements, advertisements and various posts. Web pages up and down and down show us images of completely unattainable beauty ideals and tell us how to get the perfect summer body, or how to lose weight as quickly as possible. We know that social media in recent years have contributed to a significant increase in this pressure. Yes, even as an adult you know that it can be difficult to manage it and avoid being influenced, and then we can only imagine how difficult it is to be a child or a youth in dealing with all of this. Studies and reports clearly show that our perception of body and appearance is influenced by the advertisements that are coming our way. Advertising greatly contributes to setting the standard of what people want to look like, and they produce an ideal that is very often completely unrealistic for people to reach. Yes, because the truth is that those images are often retreaded in retrospect, so that those that are depicted should appear even better than what they really are. The change in the marketing law that we are going to adopt today is the result of the fact that our party's youth organization Christian People's Party Youth has fought a hard fight to dampen the massive pressure that young people face in different channels every single day. I am very proud that we have a youth organization with great impact, and I am also proud that the government is now following up and demanding that all advertising that shows pampered or idealized people should make us aware that that is exactly what they are doing, and that the person in the picture or in the film is fixed on – that what they are making is unrealistic. The marking of reticent advertising is a very important step in the work against body pressure. Although we live in an international world, on which the representative of the Progress Party was involved, it is important that Norway sets a good example in this area as well. We politicians can make a lot of decisions, but unfortunately we cannot adopt a ban on body pressure. It's something that every one of us and we as society have to work to counteract together. We still have a way of promoting healthy and natural ideals, but the labelling of reticent advertising is so absolutely a step in the right direction to counteract the pressure to have a perfect exterior. That's why we in the Christian People's Party are very happy that the majority of the committee has joined the government's proposal, and that we finally get this important change in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1352	Young people today experience extensive and harmful body pressure. Seven out of ten young people say they feel the pressure to have a so-called fine body, and nine out of ten 16-year-olds say they want to change their bodies. These are discouraging numbers, and it's part of ruining young people's self-image and not least relationships with their own bodies. Red Youth has been working to label this kind of advertising since the last century. For approx. Ten years ago, Red Youth was involved in the launch of the Youth against Retuster advertising network. After what was then far too little action from the political team, hundreds of activists across Norway took the matter into their own hands and hung warnings on reticent advertising posters. The goal was to show that what you see on the posters is an ideal designed in Photoshop, which doesn't really exist. In connection with one of the actions, there was a 16-year-old girl who sent an e-mail that I would like to read a little from. She wrote: I've been walking around this planet for a long time with a bad confidence. I have felt ugly, stupid and not least fat, precisely because of the perfect models I have seen on TV and advertising posters. The ones with skin that glows, the hair that shines, the ones with slim bodies. I've been crying, and I've been weak. But now, at the time of writing, I was saved, and that's because of their advertising. I felt struck at several of the points you mentioned. Thank you very much, you have no idea how many girls and boys will help you. There has been no lack of facts or stories that the massive pressure of appearance experienced by young people is harmful. What has been missing is the political will to do something about it. Therefore, it is very gratifying that Stortinget is going in today to notice all the reticent advertising. It shifts responsibility away from the individual and places it where it belongs, with a cynical advertising industry and a fashion and beauty industry that knows that it is good money to earn on poor self-confidence. Today, we need to stand up to an industry that, as a business model, has just to impose and exploit the poor self-esteem of young people. The party of progress writes, I see, that it is important to combat body pressure, but votes against the proposal and has no own proposals to combat body pressure instead. But it's no shame to turn around. It's a good idea to listen to good arguments, which several parties have made here in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1365	The government has put forward a proposal for an obligation to label reticent advertising. There is one of several instruments this government wants to use to combat the body pressure in society. I want to start by thanking the Committee for the work that has been done, and thanking you for the debate that has taken place. I wish many children and young people had heard the good posts that were held, and not least the memory that they are good enough as they are. When the rapporteur had his statement, I was sitting and reflecting back in history. I was the leader of the Youth of the Christian People's Party in 2010 and I remember well the discussions that were at that time, and the common propaganda that was between the various youth parties. I had no idea that I would be here eleven years later as leader of the Christian People's Party and the Minister for Children's Affairs and Family Affairs and would be allowed to present the proposal and see it adopted. It's an important job that's been done by the youth parties, and I want to acknowledge that. There are many studies and reports that show that idealized bodies that are produced in the ads affect the perception of our own body and our own appearance. This applies in particular to children and young people. A lot of people are striving to like the people in the ads. They often use different and more or less invasive tools to change their appearance. We cannot ban all advertising that contributes to body pressure, but we can demand that the advertising that shows beautified or idealized people draws our attention to the fact that they are – that the characters in the picture or the film are fixed on. In this proposition, the government proposes that a requirement to label advertising should be part of the marketing law’s requirements for good marketing practice. When Stortinget now joins our bill on the obligation to label reticent or otherwise manipulated advertising, I believe that Stortinget is taking an important step in the work against body pressure. Compliance with the marking requirement shall not be costly for traders. We're going to create a standardized brand that everyone is going to use. I hope, however, that the brand obligation will contribute to more diversity in advertising because advertisers will show more people who are not fixed. I am pleased and proud that the majority of the committee has joined the government's proposal. The demand for reticent advertising will not end the body pressure in our society. There will still be many who want to change their appearance for different reasons. Our wish is that the brand obligation should help more people accept themselves as they are, that they perceive that they are good enough, and that they drop the efforts to resemble the idealized people who are made in advertising. Then we have to work on many other tools to make sure that children and young people understand that they are good enough as they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1381	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1386	I would once again like to thank the Council of State for the very good follow-up to the Storting decision in this important matter. I think it is very nice that just this is a matter that has been fought by a broad coalition of youth organisations. It shows that it's useful. The proposal on the labelling of reticent advertising was one of several proposals in an SV representative proposal in 2018, where someone was adopted and others were not. Another proposal that was adopted was the investigation of tightening up the regulation of the marketing of cosmetic surgery. The government has not accepted a ban on this marketing, but other regulations. I hope, however, that this case too can come to an end. I see that more and more parties support the requirement that that type of marketing should not be allowed. So my question to the Council of State is whether it's relevant for him to consider it more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1393	I think the pandemic has shown us a great growth in the desire for cosmetic surgery and intervention, which I worry about. I don't know if it's because you're sitting in a lot of digital meetings and looking at yourself, and that leads to a simple desire to fix your appearance. But at least that's a serious signal. The government has been busy looking at e.g. The age limits and a ban on when interventions can be taken, and I am absolutely willing to discuss different measures regarding the marketing of advertising. I also know that there are different issues that obviously have to be taken into account. I believe that this is an important element, but I also believe in all the other mind-creating work and what I believe the parties have a common desire, namely lifelong learning in school, which has been an important requirement of the Christian People's Party and so far as the Youth Party has also for a long time. I think that kind of instrument is extremely important, but I'm open to looking at other proposals as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1402	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1409	It is an important matter that we are getting adopted today, and it is as many have mentioned, also on the basis of proposals from the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party. But those who want the real thanks for this becoming a reality are the broad coalition of youth organisations and youth parties that have really been involved in this. This is important, because the beauty press that both girls and boys are facing today is one of the major equality challenges we have, because the framework for being a girl or being a boy is tight. You have to be and look in certain ways to be successful. When I was young, of course, there were also unrealistic ideals of beauty. It will be at all times. It is in the nature of youth to want to reach for something, and so it has always been. In Christmas my little sister, who is now 17 years old, found some pictures of me from when I was 16, and then she exclaimed: Anette, you should be happy there was no Instagram when you were 16 years old! She's probably right about that, because I didn't look like it. I looked like a newborn camel with too long legs and tooth control, and I had inherited clothes, but it didn't do anything. Those who are young today are being subjected to pressure through social media and a advertising industry that did not exist at that time and that is growing more and more. As the Council of State also said correctly, it is not the way we politicians can decide that there should not be unrealistic ideals of beauty, or that the advertising should not exist. It's come to stay. But what we can do is do more to stop the cynical industry that's playing and that's fuelling the youth's unrealistic expectations, and that's also telling them that they're not good enough. That is why this proposal that is now being adopted on the labelling of reticent advertising is so important, and therefore the Stortinget should also have voted in favour of the Workers' Party and the SV's proposal to ban advertising for cosmetic surgery, which we are now seeing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1418	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1435	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1442	With regard to the proposition that is the basis for the matter we are dealing with today, important things are now being adopted in this Chamber. The proposition indicates that there is a need for legal regulation of a lower age limit in order to recognise marriages made under foreign law. This also applies in cases where the parties are not associated with Norway. This was especially updated during the refugee crisis in 2015. It is noted that the prevalence of children’s marriages is a serious problem with a high geographical and numerical extent. The Ministry also points out that current legislation presents a risk of different practices and discrimination, because different authorities consider the conditions for recognising marriages according to marriage law differently and are not bound by each other’s decisions. It is now proposed that marriages made under foreign law should not, as a general rule, be recognised if one or both parties were under the age of 18 when they married. The proposal applies where the parties were unrelated to Norway in the form of citizenship or residence at the time of marriage. This means that such marriages shall not have legal effects under Norwegian law. Thus, the general rule is the same as today’s rule that applies to persons who were related to Norway when they married. The amendments also provide for an adjustment to the 18-year limit for the conclusion of Norwegian marriage under Norwegian law, which is absolute. As rapporteur of the case, I am very pleased that the government finally, after a long time, put forward the proposal that responded to the success of the Progress Party for the Enlargement's request decision 742 for 2017-2018. The Committee's recommendation is promoted by an overall committee, with the exception of the second paragraph of Article 18b and the second paragraph of Article 18c, promoted by the Workers' Party, the Right, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The Progress Party believes that there are no good reasons in this world to grant exemptions from the ban on child marriage. I want to draw myself back to a Progress Party post.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1459	Every year, 12 million girls get married. It's a huge challenge for equality and not least the sustainability of the world. These girls are hindered in education and have little chance of caring for themselves. It is contrary to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and, in particular, to the objectives of sustainability, which states that children under the age of 18 should not be remarried. Child marriage is widely used as a negotiated commodity in order to secure the needs and finances of families. This is also very much about poverty in the world, which we all want to combat. I am very pleased that today we are adopting restrictions on the current law, because today's legislation poses a risk of different practices because different authorities consider the conditions for recognising marriage differently. Today, marriages with minors concluded in a country under foreign law are not to be recognised. That means we get a more similar practice. Marriage shall not be recognised if one or both of the parties are under 18 years of age, even if they married before they were 18. There are some exceptions. I note that the Progress Party does not support it, but if you have married and one of the parties – and that is explicitly mentioned – was 16 years when the marriage was concluded, and you may be 50 years old today, and they live well together, have children, and both agree in writing that the marriage should not be dissolved, we believe that it is not right that the state should intervene and dissolve this marriage. But this belongs to the exceptions, and it is the Governor who is given authority to oversee it. Thank you to the President-in-Office of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. We've been drivers together to get to this law, and I'm very happy that it's coming in this magnification period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1472	Thanks to the employees at Stortinget who do a brilliant job under the pandemic. I'll take the opportunity to say that. In this proposition, we're going to have some important legislative changes that send out clear and intelligible signals. During the coronary pandemic, both the WHO, that is, the World Health Organization, and the UN have alerted the negative developments in child marriage. An article in Our Country on 14 February says: ‘The UN expects that the pandemic and its economic consequences will result in 13 million child marriages between 2020 and 2030, which would otherwise not have occurred.’;» ‘Unlikely to have occurred’ — therefore, this topic is being updated at an extra moment. We in the Centre Party are in favour of making changes to the marriage law that strengthen the protection of minors. With these changes, Norway will make it clear that we do not recognise marriage concluded where both parties or one were minors, i.e. under 18 years of age. The refugee crisis in 2015 gave us an insight into the spread of child marriages, and so it is – the pandemic taken into account – that unfortunately this practice has not become less widespread in recent years. The UN also points out that child marriage is a harmful practice, and most know it. The challenge that today's situation is what it is is that it is very difficult to get an overview of how many are involved, and therefore, of course, it is difficult to punish or help those who may be in these marriages under coercion. Therefore, it is appropriate that we fulfil our human rights obligations to protect children from such marriages with adjustments to the law on the legal instrument to define what is law, how the law should be interpreted and practiced, and to whom the law should apply. With this proposition, Norway as a nation says that we do not accept this form of marriage.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1490	Child marriage is a serious problem in large parts of the world, and Norway has a human rights obligation to protect children from it. As the previous speaker pointed out, we see that the numbers from the pandemic show that there are very many children — and especially girls — who lose school and are married instead. There are dramatic stories that are told, and therefore I just want to remind you how important it is to work internationally and through assistance with education for girls, because it is one of the most effective means of avoiding child marriage. I am also very pleased that the Stortinget today joins the government's proposal for changes to the laws that will help protect children who come to Norway from being considered married here. This gives a signal that Norway does not accept child marriage and that we are following the UN’s sustainability goal to eliminate all harmful practices such as child marriage, early marriage and forced marriage. Today, there is an absolute 18-year limit for marriage in Norway. We also have a general rule that those who marry under foreign law and are related to Norway must be 18 years old in order for marriage to be recognised. What we're doing today is we're tightening the law so that the 18-year limit also applies to those who at the time of the wedding had no connection to Norway. In addition, the government proposes some clever exceptions, including: in the interests of our obligations under human and EEA law. In the event of a derogation, only the manager of the State is required to deal with applications to that effect. The assessment is therefore moved from several different authorities to one authority. This will provide more effective and consistent treatment and will contribute to peak competence in the field. This also implies the ability to keep statistics and to get an overview of the exemptions granted, so that we can assess whether there is a long-term need and basis for further legislative changes. It is, according to Norwegian law, unclear whether parties to a marriage that is not recognised here can remarry. The proposal proposes that the parties may remarry under certain conditions in the event of non-recognition. It is also proposed that the time limit for bringing proceedings on the validity of compulsory marriages be extended from six months to one year in order to improve the time available to parties who are subject to forced marriages to decide whether or not to bring proceedings. But I am very pleased that the Storting today is behind the proposal, and I think it will be both an important signal and important for those who are in the terrible situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1507	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1512	I am very pleased that the government has finally presented this matter. And then we can agree that the Christian People's Party believes that there are good reasons to grant exemptions from child marriage, while the Advance Party believes that this should not be the case. However, what I think is fine is that this will also be the theme of this year's TV action, focusing specifically on just child marriage, not only in Norway, but as a global challenge. I think that the Council of State definitely shares the concerns that I have for it. But I could imagine challenging the Council of State a little bit as to what he thinks Norway can do internationally to send a crystal clear signal that child marriage is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1519	I'm glad of that question. But first of all, I just want to say that if the representative and I had sat down and evaluated some of the examples of which exceptions must be granted, there are cases where you may have been 17 years old when you have made a marriage. I want to remind you that it's not very long since it was also allowed in Norway to apply for an exemption when you were over 16, but under 18, and when you may be 40 today, you have children, and some are possibly women without a job, you will stand on the bar and be very alone if you're not allowed to be married anymore. But on the other hand, it is an important question from the representative. I think sending crystal clear signals, as we do now, is important, but I also think Norway needs to use the position we have, as I said in my post, to channel funds into education for girls. It's been a major priority for me to say the non-socialist parties over a long time. We know that it's hard to work with those kinds of values and attitudes, because it has to come down a little bit, too, so using the different NGOs, the voluntary organizations, to play with them, I think it's a very important tool to create attitude changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1524	Disagreements or not, can the Council of State confirm that, although these marriages had not been recognised, they had the freedom to remarry in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1529	Yes, it is clear that if it is not a recognised marriage, there is no obstacle to remarriage. But as the representative probably knows well, there are religious reasons why you might not be able to remarry, so it could also be a hindrance to these people. But I would like to stress that there will be a very narrow exception to this. As I said, there are some human rights and also EEA legal obligations that we have to follow, and that is why we have proposed these exceptions as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1535	Can the Council of State then clarify whether he believes that religious reasons are troubling children’s legal certainty and fundamental human rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1540	I would like to say that it may affect the legal security of children and the safety of their children if their parents cannot remarry and that one of these reasons loses, for example. different rights or not at least one spouse, who may be entitled to no rights. I think that is a serious problem. The Norwegian law will apply to everyone, but if one of the different religious reasons does not want to remarry, there is not something we can adopt in this room. It's about a conviction, a belief that's there. So I think that in most cases there will probably be different ways to solve this, but that's what's the reason for us, that we have some human and EEA legal obligations that we have to adopt in line with. That's why it's also a very narrow exception, and I mean as I said, it's possible to come up with good examples that it might be possible to give such types of exceptions, where both want it and really love each other, even if it was concluded when they were 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1545	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1552	The last time we discussed this matter in Stortinget about introducing an absolute 18-year-old limit, we had some very committed young people in the audience gallery. Unfortunately, it is not possible today, but I would like to extend a special thanks to Wedding Busters, incredibly committed and competent youth, who went ahead and took the initiative to get an absolute 18-year-old marriage limit in Norway. This is, as was said earlier today, a very important issue of equality policy — yes, in Norway, but also internationally. In fact, it's one of the things I've drawn up several times on the occasion of women's day. I believe that the matter we are adopting here today is important, but I am afraid that the signal will not be strong enough, as you accept exceptions. It is entirely permissible to disagree, and that the Council of State argues that religious reasons should be something that trumps the rights of children, of course, all the parties in this Chamber are free to support. However, this cannot be left behind by the Progress Party. As the child's representative, I believe it is as important to send that signal here in the country as it is beyond our borders. Under the corona pandemic, we've seen cruel explosions in numbers in several places in the world. The UN Children's Committee and the UN Committee on Women's Discrimination consider child marriage to be a very harmful practice. Such regulation could be an example of follow-up to the authorities of other countries, thus contributing to the abolition of this undesirable practice of marriage with children. The Progress Party believes that the exemption will undermine the work against child marriage. Therefore, we believe that there should be no possibility of exemption, and we therefore do not support the second paragraph of Section 18(b) of the bill and the second paragraph of Section 18(c). Children should have children – in Norway, but also in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1565	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1582	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1589	Norway is a rich and important port, not least in terms of our fishing resources. It provides many and important jobs across the coast, and it contributes to creating important values for our country. In 2020, the total catch value came to 53 billion. kr. This is a matter which we receive annually for treatment in Stortinget, and which shows how important international cooperation is for the maritime food industry. The notification provides a good overview of the resources and management of the agreements we have with other countries. We're dividing by 90 pst. of our resources that we harvest, with other countries. With our long and proud tradition as a fishing nation, it is important that we also contribute to sustainable management of the sea, and illegal fishing is still a major threat to fishing resources. So much as 15 pst. of all fishing is illegal, and the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, known as UUU fishing, which former fisheries minister Helga Pedersen seriously put on the agenda, is still important. So it is important that Norway is still a driving force in that work. The United Kingdom has now become an autonomous and important coastal country after its exit from the EU. New of the year is the tripartite agreement concluded with the EU and the United Kingdom on the management of the common fish stocks that we have in the North Sea. Norway and the United Kingdom concluded an overall framework agreement on fisheries cooperation last year, but we have failed to reach a bilateral fisheries agreement for 2021. It is a joint committee which notes that it is regrettable that it has not been possible to reach an agreement with the United Kingdom, but it is important that Norwegian interests are safeguarded and that we maintain key principles of mutual fisheries management. I would also like to say that the free trade agreement with the United Kingdom, which I hope will come soon, also has a major impact on maritime nutrition. It is important to get it in place very quickly, and it is regrettable that there is not yet an agreement on the table for treatment in Stortinget. So I hope we see that agreement fairly quickly, because it matters to so many industries, and not least to the seafood industry. With that, I recommend the overall attitude of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1606	I would like to thank you for the good cooperation in this matter. In these kinds of cases, it is important that we stand together as closely as possible. The case also shows how dependent we are on good cooperation between coastal states on the management of marine resources. The horror picture we've seen in the last six months of an armada of Chinese vessels that gather, for example. close to Galapagos, is involved in updating the need for cross-country resource control. The same is true of our close story just before the millennium. Brexit hasn't made this easier. We are pleased that there has been agreement on driving rules for negotiation and control, but we are concerned that there has been no realistic expectations of the process and results that have made it possible to get into port an agreement. So it's the first time in many, many years that we don't have an agreement that includes the United Kingdom in the allocation of quotas and fishing rights across the zones. We are also concerned that the states are still failing to reach agreement on all populations. For the time being, however, it appears that all important populations in the area are in good condition. An overall committee position is being promoted, and, at the same time, the SV's proposals for quota exchange are being put forward year-on-year. Here I would just like to say briefly that this is about historical rights. It's not the trade we're doing on our own. It was known and included in the assessment at the time the quota allocation between coast and sea was made, and is therefore not at the expense of any special fleet groups because it was taken into account when the main allocation was made. It is not right to double this adjustment, and in any case, I would like to point out that the coastal group has been transferred 4000 tonnes from sea in the context of the quota notification and year-on-year adjustments. At the same time, I would also like to take the opportunity to point out that the allocated allowances, such as: in colloidal form part of a value chain where most countries are used for processing in Norway, probably up to 80 pst. processing, creating jobs at sea and land and forming part of a feed value chain for aquaculture, creating additional employment and value added and laying the basis for a marine industry based on Norwegian feed resources, Norwegian employment and Norwegian value added.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1621	This time I took the glasses with me and not the mouthband. Norway is a port of rich fishing resources. The large quantities of fish in Norwegian waters have provided food, work and income to the Norwegian coastal population at all times. In 2020, Norway exported wild caught fish and fishery products for 31.6 billion. kr, which was a new record. We're dividing by 90 pst. of the fishing resources we harvest, with other coastal countries, and it is the management of these resources that is the theme of the annual fisheries agreements. The agreements shall ensure that the harvesting of fish stocks is sustainable. They are therefore based on independent scientific advice on allowances and management measures and contain binding provisions on allocation of allowances, management measures and control cooperation. There are three overall objectives underpinning Norway’s involvement in the various negotiation processes for resource management: promoting the sustainable management of living marine resources based on the best available scientific knowledge and an ecosystem-based approach; securing Norway a fair share of the allocation of allowances for common regulated stocks; ensuring satisfactory control and enforcement within the administrative regimes of Norway; The communication provides useful information on the status of the main fish stocks we share with other countries, and we are meeting an agreement for the United Kingdom as well. In its recommendation, SV argues that it is problematic that the exchange relationship between Norway and the EU causes Norway to give up fishing teams on which the smaller fleet groups can fish and exchange for species that are inaccessible to these groups. They claim that there has been a pattern in which cod has been taken from coastal and fjord fishermen in the north and has been replaced by species of fish from which only seagoing vessels in the West can benefit. The exchange ratio is going to be unfair, where you take from one of your wallets and give to the other. It is with respect to report both historyless and misrepresentation. Third country allowances and exchange ratios are mainly based on historical rights from the time before the establishment of the 200-mile economic zone and concern rights in waters which were then international and outside the fisheries jurisdiction of some individual countries. This agreement led to a one-third reduction in the fishing activities of the EU fleet in Norway’s economic zone and the exclusion of one-third of coastal states with unilateral quotas. This trading relationship is mainly based on historical rights and a consensus between coastal states, which has provided stability for about 40 years. Third country allowances are therefore not at the expense of the coastal fleet, where these quotas have been largely never included in the basis for the allocation of allowances to Norwegian vessels. These allowances have been historically allocated and fished by vessels of other countries and non-Norwegian vessels.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1650	We've had a good handle in the committee. Normally in earlier times, there has been about zero debate about Norway's fisheries agreements. In recent years we have discussed it more and more, and I have also noticed that the last two articles have given SV's role in this solid place. I appreciate that. This quota change that we are doing, where an agreement is reached with the EU against accessing quotas in the Norwegian zone – we are getting back that we can now fish in the different EU countries’ zones, especially in the north – has quite clear historical foundations and reasons. This is a historical fish that they have the right to claim through the law of the sea. There's no doubt about it. But that's how good and burdens are distributed then that's the problem. It seems that both of the last two speakers are just jumping across the central point. Who's going to take advantage of what we're switching to? Well, who can take advantage of that? It's the ones that can travel far. That's the big fleet. But who is taking the burden of the fish that we are moving into the EU? That's at least 70 pst. The coastal fleet, on cod, which is the ladder. So there's no match between good and burden. It should be those who are satisfied, who should also take the burden, but here it is to a large extent those who are not allowed to share in good, who take the whole burden. It is a logic that we – today, tomorrow – can change, because it is only about how we allocate the national quota. It's not about the historical dishes to fish. We can keep that to ourselves. That's how we distribute the burden in Norway. I'm sorry that SV is the only party within this comment. I think it's strange, especially when several parties, at least apparently, are concerned that one should take more advantage of the traditional coastal fleet. But it says SV alone, and we only get to argue better with both the opposition, from the SV, and the position otherwise, from the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1661	Norway shall play an active role in international maritime cooperation. We are being listened to in international forums because we have found a good balance in our own exploitation of the living marine resources. The Committee points out that we did not reach an agreement with the United Kingdom. Brexit brought significant changes to traditional cooperation with the EU and the United Kingdom. The negotiations have been demanding, and we concluded on 16 March a tripartite agreement on joint management in the North Sea for 2021. It proved difficult to establish an agreement with the United Kingdom for 2021. Of course, this is something we wanted to put in place, because Norway has traditionally fished a lot in British waters. We have had a good dialogue with the industry and will continue to work to establish a balanced agreement that takes care of our interests. The members of the Committee from the SV and the Centre are of the opinion that it is problematic for Norway to switch the species of fish on which the smaller fleet groups are able to fish against species that are inaccessible to these groups. The member of the Committee from SV believes that the trawl path should be counted from Norwegian cod quota before subtracting quotas from negotiations. It's not like we're replacing someone's allowances. We have a quota change to maintain our traditional fisheries. It is also the case that Norway and Russia agree on how much can be allocated to third countries before being allocated to national quotas in Norway and Russia. Norwegian-Russian cooperation is still strong and good, and we see that it is of great value that industry and researchers maintain and develop good cooperation. The Committee points out that illegal fishing poses a threat to fishing resources. Norway initiated a statement against organised fishing crime in 2018. Today, 36 countries support the declaration. We will continue to focus on finding good solutions to prevent fishing crime, both nationally and internationally. Nationally, we strengthen the fishing controls we have today, among other things. a better data base on the fleet side resource take-off and closer cooperation with Ecocrim. We want a smarter and better fishing resource control. It has been said in the debate that it is important that we stand together. The Committee shall also be set up as a body. In the negotiation processes we have been in, it is important to say that we also have a close dialogue with the industry. And when it comes to not concluding an agreement with the United Kingdom, the government and industry stand together unisonably.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1680	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1685	Since we are talking about the international fisheries agreements, it is also appropriate to ask a little bit about the agreements dealing with the United Kingdom, because even if we do not deal with the free trade agreement now, it is our desire and aim that we do so in this Chamber. Is it possible for the Council of State to say a little about the impact on the maritime food industry if we do not get to deal with this agreement in a short time? And the other question I'm asking is, is it possible to get any signals if we get that deal on the table over the next few days?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1690	I just have to ask for understanding that I can't comment on it. It's the Minister of Industry's constitutional responsibility. But there is no doubt that both in terms of free trade agreements and what we are discussing today, the fisheries agreements, Norway always has a pragmatic and solution-oriented approach to the negotiations. I would like to commend a skilled agency in the departments that has built both competences and networks over the years, literally, in other offices to achieve the best possible agreements. The Korona era has created the challenge that digital negotiations are not exactly the same as the good old physical ones. You kind of lose a dimension, and that sometimes makes it difficult to negotiate. But there you take advantage of the fact that we have a good office that has good experience over many years with such processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1695	I understand that it is demanding in asking for these processes to give very clear answers, but then at least the signal is taken that the Storting regards it as important to have this agreement dealt with. In any case, it would have been nice to hear the Minister for Fisheries’ assessment of the importance of setting up a rapid agreement with the United Kingdom for the maritime food industry, which is a particularly important market for particularly the whitefish industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1701	I fully agree with that. It is absolutely essential and essential for the fisheries and maritime food industry. Only in North Norway are 15 000 annual works working directly with fisheries and seafood. Without competitive market access, there is no basis for activities. This point is equally relevant for the next two issues as well. This is a basic assumption that we can reap from the resources we have, that we can obtain market access from other countries, and Norway, as a small country, must be capable, solution-oriented and pragmatic in order to achieve the best possible agreements with other countries on a general basis. It is absolutely essential for an important profitable coastal and district industry that we have market access. It's absolutely crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1706	One of the things that must be forbidden when a fish is not caught. With a certain risk that there will be a result here too, I ask: What time does the UK have an agreement with the UK for treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1711	I have to answer a little in principle first and say that in every debate there are two parties, and my claim is that Norway is always solution-oriented and potential-oriented, and that is an important starting point. As far as the Free Trade Agreement is concerned, it is not right for me to comment on it. The aim, of course, is to establish a necessary and important agreement for Norwegian jobs in both fisheries, seafood, agriculture and other business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1716	There may be two or more parties to a debate, and it is obvious that the United Kingdom is one of the parties, and Norway is one of the parties, too. But is it that there is only happiness and harmony in these questions between the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries on the one hand and the Ministry of Agriculture on the other, or is this a difficult matter also within the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1721	Both the fisheries and maritime food industries and agriculture are important district industries in Norway, so what we are working for is to get the best possible solution for important jobs and important activities for our country, and of course also for other businesses in Norway: industry, services, etc. So that's what these negotiations are all about. The aim is that Norwegian industry, whether it be agriculture, fisheries and seafood or whatever it may be, should have competitive market access for its products and services.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1726	Just to be concrete and try once to get a hold: does the Council believe that the Storting will be presented separately with a proposal for a free trade agreement with the United Kingdom before the summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1731	I hope I do not disappoint the representative too much when I say again that it is wrong for me to comment on that matter. It is the Minister of Industry who is responsible for that particular matter and has to give his opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1736	Governments are always talking about Norway being a solution-oriented negotiator. The question is how solution-oriented is, and how important is the principle. The way in which we have been thinking about trading relations with the EU has not been an example for others, I think, where a pre-allocation is done with the EU, and then the national quota is broken down by known pattern. That means that of the total, it's the smaller fleet that doesn't have access to the exchange, that loses. This is going to be a bit of an extra whim when we now enter into a debate with the EU. One thing is market access, another is different types of concessions that give you. So my question is, would it be completely unacceptable for the Council of State to agree to an agreement that gives more fish from the Norwegian side than one has given to the United Kingdom and the EU together, in a new agreement with the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1743	It's going to be a so-called hypothetical question. Norway has always not done so. But at the same time: if you are going to be pragmatic, you shouldn't rule out that it may be necessary sometime in some debate, so that's really the best answer I can give. I want to say that when discussing this exchange problem, I think it is very important not to forget what the conditions were like before we got the Norwegian economic zone, and before getting anarchy and wild-west states replaced by good regulated and usable coastal cooperation, even though it is not necessarily trouble free at all times. But the alternative reality would have been a great loss for the coastal fleet. I believe that what we have been able to do over many decades of work is to the benefit of the coast and coastal communities, and it is reassuring that we have it within a good framework. It also ensures that we get the most sustainability in the management of marine resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1750	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1757	I just want to repeat something I said in my post, to underline the understanding of this with quota exchange. If it had been that the quota shares, the relative share of them, had not been known at the time the distribution between the seagoing fleet and the coastal fleet was made, there could be some points. But that's not the case. The fact that there were historical rights for other fishermen was known when two thirds and one thirds were decided between sea and coast. This means that the distribution is initially taken into account. So it's not going to be right to do it again. At least it's going to be a pretty skewed show, I'd say, if someone makes it so that it's something you should fix because it wasn't taken into account in the distribution that's historically between the fleet groups. It's done, it was known, it was taken into account, and that's why we have the distribution we have today. If that wasn't the case, the distribution might have been different, I don't know, it gets historians and speculators speculate in, but it's not like there's someone here being treated badly. This was taken into account when the distribution between the groups was made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1763	If that's the best argument, I have to make the representative aware that if one goes back to the time when the historical right to this fishing started, the extent is now much greater. If the extent of this exchange has changed, it is evident that there should be a policy impact on fisheries. If that were the exact same thing as it was then, I might have agreed with the representative, but maybe disagreed with the distribution, as we in SV often are. However, when the scale changes, it is clear that it takes the fisheries policy principle very seriously. I just want to encourage the representative to understand that there is another reality, where there are coastal communities that feel that more and more of the fishing resources and values and value creation from those ports on other hands than they've done in history, and that there is a historical fish that has changed quite significantly over the past 20 years, and has accelerated under the blues. That's the reality this is staggering against. When the scale has changed and the representative still doesn't understand why to change the logic of it, we've certainly had a classic political and ideological discord, where the Right wants to benefit from a few fleets that think well about it, and we don't want to benefit from the coastal communities and all the value and food chains we find there, which create values for the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1772	The representative Tom-Christer Nilsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1777	This is also not a proper presentation. In fact, when these historic rights were introduced, we threw out a large number of those that traditionally fished in these waters, in connection with the expansion to an economic zone of 200 nautical miles. That is the reality of it. In addition, this will vary from year to year with the allowance base. That is, it will go up, and it will go down, in line with the negotiations between Russia and Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1784	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1802	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1809	I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee and refer to the proposal to secure raw material for the shrimp industry. The Committee otherwise refers to letters from State Council Odd Emil Ingebrichtsen of 27 April 2021. The message is attached to the setting. The Committee notes that the proposal refers to the fact that the quota recommendations of the International Council for the Exploration of the Barents Sea shrimp have been 140 000 to 150 000 tonnes in recent years, but the fishing effort and the catch quantity have been very low and now account for only about half. The Committee points out that in March 2020 there were 53 shrimp trawl concessions but several of the concessions have not been active in recent years. The Committee considers this to be unfortunate in terms of exploiting the species, but also in terms of securing raw material for industry and safe shore-based jobs. The Committee also points out that increased efforts in the harvesting of sustainable and under-utilised fisheries resources in Norway’s areas of interest are important for strategic reasons. The Committee notes that reduced activity in this fishery has resulted in a reduction in the number of industrial processing plants in Troms and Finnmark from 26 factories in the 1980s to today only 2 factories, both in Troms County. The Committee points out that the proposers want more measures to increase the harvesting of the shrimp stock. The proposal also seeks to grant limited and non-negotiable cod quotas to shrimp industry companies in order to ensure the financing of trawlers in order to pick up the allocated shrimp trawl permit needed for their own processing. The Committee is concerned about the long-term development of fewer enterprises further processing deep-water shrimps. Then I go over to show you what the Central Party proposes in the matter. Proposal No. 1:@item: inlistbox ‘The Government requests that an activity requirement be met by the Government for vessels with shrimp trawls’.» Proposal No. Article 2 is replaced by ‘The government is asking how the charging system can be used to stimulate the exploitation of shrimps and other less profitable species by vessels authorised to shrimp.’ Proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox ‘The Government is asked to investigate and propose measures aimed at increasing efforts in the harvesting of sustainable and under-utilised fishing resources in Norway’s areas of interest. The shrimp stock in the Barents Sea and at Svalbard is such a resource.» I'll take up the suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1842	Then the representative Geir Adelsten Iversen has drawn up the proposals he referred to, the first two from the Labour Party and the Center Party, the last from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1847	This is a topic that the Committee and the Storting have dealt with up to several times, and it is about a strong commitment to finding a solution for this important industry. With that, I would also like to commend the fact that the proposal and the matter have once again been raised. Up to several times, questions have been asked from the Workers' Party to the Council of State on what to do to find a solution for the industry. Unfortunately, there has been a fairly passive attitude back, and no solution has been found. The working party believes that the solution to these kinds of things belongs to the government. It is the government's responsibility, and the signals they received from Stortinget have been very clear. It's desirable to find solutions, but they haven't come. What you've shown is the quota notification. Among other things, written questions were asked in the autumn of 2019, and then the quota notification was referred to. We know how the work with it is today. It is worrying that the shrimp population is and remains an unused resource. The fact that the extraction is far from the recommended level is worrying, and also the fact that 26 enterprises have gone from the 1980s to only two today, when the opportunity to develop the industry is much greater. That's why it's important to have an active involvement for this, not just to say that it's important. It's a responsibility on the Council of State. That is why the Workers' Party has been involved in proposals together with the Center Party, which I think is wise. In addition, we will support the proposals No. Three and four, which are quite similar, but these are proposals that I think more people should be able to support. We're worried about making suggestions that can rock through the participant law. It's problematic for us to go into. Then there is something about having a quota notification, but the Riksrevision states that there is a greater need to investigate fisheries policy proposals, because the consequences of this need to be known. This is the Labour Party's position. That is why we have also said that we want a new quota notification. If there are proposals that will help the industry there, you have to wait and see, but I hope that the Minister for Fisheries will take a much more active position to secure businesses like Stella Polaris, which do everything we want a local company to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1864	We have to deal with today, as previous speakers have said, a matter that has been going on for a long time, and where different solutions have been tried, proposed and rejected in turn. The good news today is that we are still looking for solutions. The bad news is that none of the proposals that are being promoted today solve the challenges, as I see it. The suggestions made by the proposers are interesting, but I would say that there is something inconsistent. Here, therefore, a proposal is to introduce a new type of mandatory radiation system for cod trawlers, linked to one company. It is done by the same lot as proposed in another case to completely abolish the obligation system, with the exception of the obligation to operate on land. In other words, one believes that the compulsory system does not work when cod is to be delivered to cod processing establishments, but believes it should work if a shrimping company is given a cod obligation with processing obligations on the cod which they themselves cannot discharge. In addition, it is proposed that shrimp farms which have been granted the right to own vessels with shrimp trawl permits may be granted cod authorisations. The proposal is challenging. First of all, there is an enterprise other than that to which this is addressed, obviously, which already has a cod trawl permit and which also has a shrimp trawl permit. That is to say, one is dependent on keeping his tongue quite straight in his mouth in order that not also that company should be in position to obtain the same type of authorisation, and such neutrality must, of course, be maintained in the context of the granting of these types of rights. The second is that one here will take rights from those who are already fishing on cod, and from the cod trawl group, to a value in size – estimated, based on the estimate of the quota value – 450 million. kr, broken down by the bottom line of the vessels currently participating in the group. The third is that this must be seen as a direct subsidy by a farm and must be assessed in relation to unlawful State aid, since it is clear that the rationale is the raw material basis of the special holding, the holdings which are thus exposed to the risk of possibly being taken into account for the receipt of unlawful State aid. In addition, two proposals have been made by the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. The first one has already been tried rejected. The next thing I see is that we get an explanation of what it really means, what fees you've been thinking about, and how they might be used. It is currently not apparent from the proposal. I am pleased that the Ministry of Fisheries will continue to try to find solutions, and I want them to be found, and I think it is positive that the opposition is also doing this. We have to be open to consider most constructive proposals, as long as they are consistent and are perceived as feasible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1881	The issue addressed in this proposal is the same as discussed in Document 8:184 S for 2018–2019. The Progress Party agrees with the intention of the proposal for increased catch of shrimps, and several regulatory adjustments and adjustments have been made to stimulate the effective use of more shrimp trawl permits. The accounting industry has experienced a significant decline in raw material input over the last 40 years. In the 1980s, the annual catch of shrimp in the Barents Sea was up to 120 000 tonnes. The reduced activity in shrimp fishing has reduced the number of factories for industrial processing of shrimps in Troms and Finnmark from 26 factories in the 1980s to today only 2 factories processing shrimps from the sea fleet today, both in Troms County. It is noted in the proposal that the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, ICES, its quota recommendations for shrimps in the Barents Sea have been 140 000 to 150 000 tonnes in recent years, but the fishing effort and the catch quantity have been strongly reduced and now account for only about half. By March 2020 there were 53 shrimp trawl concessions, but several of them have not been active in recent years. The stock of shrimp in the Barents Sea is in good condition, and the decline in the supply of shrimp to industry is due to reduced activity on the fleet side and not the stock situation in the Barents Sea. There are currently no quotas on shrimps allowing authorised vessels to fish freely. Despite good catch rates, many companies have nevertheless chosen not to participate in shrimp fishing. It is very unfortunate, both in terms of exploiting the species and also in terms of ensuring raw material access to industry and safe shore-based jobs. In recent years, a number of measures have been assessed and implemented to try to increase the resource extraction of shrimps. Several regulatory adjustments and adjustments have been made to stimulate the effective exploitation of more shrimp trawl permits, as also referred to in the setting. It was also, among others. in 2014, assigned four dedicated shrimp trawl permits to the shrimp industry in North Norway, with the aim of contributing to ensuring raw material access to the industry. These permits have still not been put into service due to low profitability in fishing. These recirculation permits were granted with a derogation from the Participant Act. The Progress Party also considers that the exemption from the acquisition licence of cod under these trawl authorisations may be assessed in order to improve the operational basis and to ensure better access to raw material for these industrial holdings. Granting a cod trawl authorisation with an obligation system proposed by the representatives would result in a reduction in the quota base for other vessels or groups of vessels without remuneration. The Progress Party will be cautious in implementing such measures and cannot support these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1902	I would just like to correct a mistake in the case proposal, or a reference to those who are in the comment that the department believes that the proposals would be in any way contrary to the Participant Act § 16. That doesn't say the department. Paragraph 16 of the Participation Act only says something about who, and about how the process should be by granting special permits. It says that the ministry should make assessments like this and so on and so forth. The only department that points out is that this must be done by the department, and they have not done so, and therefore they recommend that the proposals be rejected. That's the starting point. What we're talking about here is an adjustment of the quota distribution within the cod ray group. Tom-Christer Nilsen from Right began to talk about illegal state aid. When changing the allocation of allowances within the group, there is nothing to do with illegal State aid. In that case it would have our groundbreaking. It would have meant that we could just put the entire quota message we have behind us in garbage. For there are large adjustments made to the allocation of the allowance base, and if there is illegal State aid to make an adjustment to the quota ratio, we are wrong. So we can't do anything. What we want to do is correct one of the wrong things that have happened in structural policy. Structural policy has many clear shadow pages. One of them is that shrimps and shrimps have been damaged. The larger vessels go to become much more specialised, they go for the larger fish species, where there is the greatest ignition, and they fish less and less for more marginal fishing. But what can bring great values to the community, and which can create many jobs on land, ends up on the shadow side. For this reason, we suggest that a cod-ray concession be opened to the industry within the cod-ray group, within a field where the type of concessions have already been granted to the industry, and where we clearly frame the concession. The concession is very time-limited, cannot be translated, and it must also create activity and production on land. So the concession has to have a clear time limit of 15 years, and can point out in many ways the direction of how to deal with oceangoing concessions in the future, where one demands more marginal fishing to be included in the requirement to have concessions in this way, so that one can use more of the amazing resources that we have in the sea, but which are now being used less and less. We have a lot of used resources in this country, and it's being done too little to exploit them. I'm dealing with the suggestions SV has on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1915	The representative of Torgeir Knag County has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1920	The problems of shrimp fishing in the Barents Sea have been discussed for a long time. I have had several meetings with the shrimp industry and I am well aware of the challenges facing the rural industry with access to raw materials. In line with the representatives behind the proposal for a representative and the other business committee, I also want the shrimp industry to have access to raw materials, and that we make use of the natural resources available to us. As the Committee points out, for a number of years the Ministry has assessed various measures to increase raw material access to the shrimp industry. In 2014, four shrimp trawl permits were granted to the shrimp industry in North Norway. These have not yet been put into use by those allocated to them. Several other regulatory adjustments and adjustments have also been made to stimulate the effective use of several shrimp trawl permits. In the autumn of 2018, the Ministry carried out a consultation on measures related in particular to the concession law to increase fishing activities for shrimps with trawls in the Barents Sea. The main feedback from the hearing was that it is difficult to regulate out of profitability challenges. With regard to the proposals made by representatives to allocate quota factors for cod trawls, this would lead to a reduction in the quota base for other vessels or groups of vessels. One must therefore at least be careful to implement such measures. I also record that the organization of the sea fishing fleet is also sceptical about the proposals. I believe, in this context, that the most important thing now is to put in place a new quota system based on the quota notification provided by the government, in order to facilitate Norwegian fisheries to develop further and become even more forward-looking than they are today, for the benefit of the coast and the population. Ensuring a stable supply of raw materials to industry — and not just to the shrimp industry — is very important, everyone agrees. In addition to market access and profitability, this is the basic prerequisite for operating industry. So the question is what kind of path to the goal is the best. Today we do not have the right to rent out cod trawl concession. I'm also sceptical about whether it's right to dispensate from the participant law to grant such a concession, also because this fish has to be taken from someone else's quota. The Senja relay is Norwegian and locally owned. They're family businesses. This has been because they have been working hard in a difficult market for many years and they contribute to important jobs. The government is committed to facilitating the shrimp industry. We have received a specific request from the industry that we now have to assess in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1952	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1957	Reference is made to the assessment made by the various proposals promoted by the Storting. But what I asked for in my post is what is the government's responsibility. What is the government doing actively to find solutions? The fact that you have granted a derogation for four permits is of little use if you are not allowed to use those permits. So my first question is, what does the government really do to secure this good industry and industry what the raw material they need?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1962	I can start by saying that it is very important for this industry that they also have market access, so they are competitive. It's very important and a basic assumption that we're working on to find good solutions. So many measures have been taken over the years, and the representative knows very well that there are no magic solutions, such as: ensure that the driving industry becomes profitable. It is the main challenge of profitability in a market where price competition is high and profit is marginal. What we can do is try to stimulate the better use of that resource, but it is simply not possible to assume that someone should start using a shrimp trawl permit that has been granted, if you don't find reason to do so yourself. But the Workers' Party may have a very strong belief that the state can go in and maybe run the shrimp industry, that that's what's new from the Workers' Party. I don't know. But I have a bad experience with it from before.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1969	The Labour Party has no plans to operate the shrimp industry, nor do we have any faith that the Minister for Fisheries can neither magic nor magic. What we have in mind is that the Minister of Fisheries can tell Stortinget what is being done actively to get solutions for this industry in place. It's not about the state going in and running the industry, but when you have such a forward-looking industry, companies that are localities, doing everything we ask them to do, the least you can expect is the Minister of Fisheries to take some active action. And that's what the Minister of Fisheries has been asked to do several times. So I ask again, and I don't have to get in response to neither magic nor market access, but what have you actually done: what does the Minister of Fisheries think you can do from government teams to contribute to the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1976	I just have to point out that as there are no simple solutions to e.g. addressing the economic challenge in an industry is not just making a political decision to pay more. There are profitability challenges, and there is strong price competition in the shrimp market that is the challenge here. It's hard to find good solutions. Many things have been tried over several years without success. In addition to that, I feel that throughout the whole of the United Kingdom, there is a desire to – whether it is a shrimp industry or other fishing industry – help to facilitate stable access to raw materials, market access and raise profitability. These are the most important things. We see in some areas of the whitefish side that research and investment in research are successful in opening up new opportunities for all-year-old jobs, freezing technologies and incentives such as fresh fish bonuses and live storage schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1983	I have noted that the government and the position have not intended to do anything to secure this industry. Then we get to hope for a shift to the autumn, so at least we have to be able to guarantee a much more active attitude to ensure a solution for this important industry. These include: has shown several times that the quota notification may also be the solution for the shrimp industry. Can the Minister for Fisheries elaborate on the way in which the quota notification can contribute to ensuring a level playing field in raw material for the shrimp industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1990	The quota message itself cannot ensure that. It's about the fact that there must be someone who has a vessel and sees the possibility that fishing for shrimp can be profitable and can deliver to the industry. Of course, we have the obligation to offer the quota notification to ensure that the fish industry has access to raw material, to offer the fish that is being fished and to have the opportunity to receive a premium before being sold on the open market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e1997	I thought of Peer Gynt: «Yes, think it; wish it; would it; – but do it! No, I don't understand!' Here is a proposal that wants to do something about a problem, which I find that both this Council of State, the previous Council of State and the previous Council of State and the previous Council of State have all been certain that was a challenge, but then don't do what it takes to actually do something. Thus, the huge values that society misses, that industry misses, that are very valuable. Stella Polaris, for example, exploits the shrimp shell in such a way that one creates drugs, supplements that have amazing properties, and has enormous market potential within completely different types of niches than the traditional seafood field creates. That's what's in danger: that one can lose these industries out of the country because one doesn't do enough. The question is, what will the Council of State do?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2002	SV has probably a love for coercion, but I have to say that I have little faith in having to force someone to deliver shrimp, if it's not profitable, because that's really what it boils down to. What the representative has in mind, about the exploitation of shrimp shells in other value chains for other products, are things that will definitely help to increase the value creation and perhaps increase the ability to pay and the willingness to pay for the raw material. So the whole problem really boils down to it, essentially. As far as the proposal from the representatives is concerned, I am sceptical about taking cod resources from other vessels and distributing them to Stella Polaris, although I have to say that I really pay homage to such types of businesses – family businesses, local owned, held for 56 years – that is absolutely amazing, and we want more of that. But it's raising the profitability of the industry that's the challenge. Political decisions are not necessarily easy if there is no special tax or tax requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2009	It came from the heart, the first sigh that came from the Council of State, that there is so much coercion attached to SV. I have to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that it is this Council of State that would continue today's obligation system that sets different types of requirements. It is this government that will continue the concession system that will introduce a number of requirements. It's coerced, too. This proposal is about triggering a small proportion of quotas that are currently in the cod ray group, and giving it to the shrimp industry to ensure that we get shrimp, we also get cod, and we get values on land. No one's forcing anyone to do anything. We're actually giving the coast great possibilities, and it could point the direction of the terms, which I'm counting on the Council of State is not against -- I'm assuming he didn't let it say, it might be more general about SV -- and set the terms of concession. There must be something here that the Council of State finds interesting, or shall we just see, year after year, that this government is correcting everything?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2016	I am very interested in getting up both value creation and jobs in Coastal and District Norway, and especially the family businesses are close to my heart. It is the backbone of Norwegian business, and I wish that SV really had more love for Norwegian and local ownership than what one has when punishing people through taxes on wealth on working capital. But that's not what this case is about. We are open and pragmatic to assess all possible measures. In this case, it is proposed to take cod from someone and give it to the individual company, and I am sceptical about that. I'm recording that the majority of the committee is sceptical about it. We also have an application from Stella Polaris in the department for evaluation that we have not yet completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2022	The council of state came with the one untruth after the other, as if we in SV did not have a fondness for Nordic local owned companies. It's kind of the opposite. Those are the ones we're trying to make sure right now. That's the vote from the government party and the rejection from the government council is all about. One should not ensure that this raw material comes to land and provides for future family-owned enterprises in the shrimp industry, which are becoming ever smaller and smaller for every day that goes. That's what this is about. So it's well turned down. So here are the Councils of State taxes on wealth. Then I just have to mention that budget cuts are a direct suction pipe from the districts to a few municipalities in the Austland. That's where the big fortunes are today. They are the ones who benefit from a wealth tax code. If you are busy securing the family-owned businesses along the coast: give them the raw materials, do not concentrate on ever fewer hands, make sure that the raw materials come on land, so that they can generate value for these businesses. What is the Council of State's response to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2029	I am happy that we have a common love for the family businesses, but I hope that it could give a different look in SV than punishing Norwegian ownership, as SV adds in its tax policy. Those who have family holdings in Norway should be and are certainly aware of this. So I hope that SV can turn their words into practice, to punish Norwegian ownership, as one does today, is to destroy the backbone of Norwegian business. The representative knows very well that in the fisheries and seafood sector good money has been made in recent years, and every fishing vessel is a family farm, mostly, with the exception of Nergård. So I hope you take it with you -- excuse me, President, I hope the representative takes it with him to his party group and maybe transform that love into something other than what you do in tax policy practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2036	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2043	For the Central Party, it is important to obtain raw material from the shrimp industry and to use the policy to obtain it. In this way, it is disappointing to see how passive the government party is in this matter, and how little will it is to find solutions. Because that's what they're about, the proposals that the Central Party is behind. It's about suggestions to try to find a solution. But I also ask a little question about SV's role in this matter. Firstly, it is known that SV is one of the largest drivers of increased CO 2 charge for the fishing fleet. It will make it more demanding to access the raw materials that you need. It will make it harder to get wages in the less profitable fisheries when you turn up the CO 2 tax so much. But perhaps the most serious thing in this case is the slightly light relationship that one has with the law of participants. Are we sure that it is a good idea to exempt industry from the Participant Act, to hold quotas, to achieve something else? Have we done this before? What experience do we have with that? Is it as simple as SV is trying to make it? Or is it perhaps time to stand on the principle, to stand on the Participant Act and say no, the fishing is reserved for the active fishermen? That is what is at the root of the Norwegian fisheries policy. Therefore, I want to warn you a little about the light solution that SV is going for in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2058	This has been an exciting debate. First of all, the part of the Participant Act we are talking about here, Section 16. When we talk about the Participant Act, we often talk about other paragraphs. This is only about the process why special permissions can be granted. The innocent was broken many years ago, when one gave the industry quotas against having a number of obligations to the coastal communities. We have a case right after this one that is going to be unlikely to be interesting, where SV has a proposal on the table to terminate that scheme, because it does not work after the intention. Then the remaining resources will be returned to the coastal communities. This proposal is about giving such a concession just to realise an intention that we all share – at least in the word – to increase the use of resources for the shrimp industry. Then I thought it was funny with the Center Party, which is most likely going to vote against the proposal of SV, with some modifications, to wind up today's obligation regime within cod fishing and transfer that quantity to the traditional coastal fleet. They're going to vote against it. So attack them to get solutions for the shrimp industry by establishing a special concession in that field. It's going to be an interesting evening if that's the kind of argument we're going to have. It's going to be a party for everyone, and we're all looking forward to a party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2067	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2084	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2091	I would also like to thank the Cooperation Committee on this matter. The proposal addresses four proposals, and there have been a number of subsequent proposals. Proposal No. 1 is in parallel with what was adopted in the context of the review of the allowance system by the National Audit Office and which the government is in the process of following up. Proposal No. 2 has been promoted twice earlier in this ageing period, and proposal No. In practice, 3 is quite identical to the proposal from Red which was discussed earlier in the session. Proposal No. 4 is a proposal based on a response from the ministry and is now being evaluated in the ministry. When the majority do not support these proposals, it is partly based on the view that proposal No. 1 have already been adopted and in a process, the proposals No. 2 and 3 have been discussed earlier and rejected – I refer to the debate and the speeches about it – and proposal No. 4 is now to be assessed on the basis of proposals from, inter alia: some municipalities in Finnmark. In addition, the proposal on quota trajectories is highly questionable in principle. It involves punishing the shark fisherman for something it does that buys his fish. This does not influence the fisherman, nor does the fisherman carry out the action. This violates basic principles. With regard to the proposal for the obligation to offer and the withdrawal of allowances related to it, we are not aware that there has been any breach of the law relating to the obligation to provide services in recent years. In addition, proposals have been made except for a new notification of allowances and for the removal of the obligation system, but retain the obligation of activity. There have also been some loose proposals today. The majority do not see the need for a new overall review of the quota system so soon after its implementation. I would like to remind you that there was a relatively long process underpinning the existing quota notification, including a NOO treatment. A new treatment now will only create further uncertainty and unforeseeability for the industry. We cannot support the SV’s proposal to remove the obligation to offer and to process but to maintain the obligation to operate and to transfer the quotas of mandatory trawlers to the coast. There is no basis for obligation of activity without the other obligations and rights. This is in line with the hearing recordings given. I want to point to the recording from Båtsfjord in particular. As we see it, this proposal that it might be very interesting to look at further. The aim is that we all agree: we want more processing in Norway. However, I think it's time to focus more on how to make industry more competitive, and not always talk about how to control the quota system in order to get some benefits, thereby reducing the quota number and the value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2116	I would like to thank you for raising another issue of fisheries policy; it is good for us to have more fish on the agenda in the Stortinget. Ensuring that the fisheries policy objectives are implemented in practice is very important. But then we must also agree on what the fisheries policy objectives are. I believe that this is something that should have been processed and prepared in the quota notification. And then we all know how the processing of the quota notification went; it didn't go very well. It is that the fisheries policy in Norway has been fragmented and divided, much because of quite a small amount of work done by the government. But the Labour Party wants to be consistent in how we develop the framework conditions for this important industry, and what has emerged from the Riksrevision, we believe that everyone has to take seriously. The fact that there has been serious criticism that we have had too much impact assessment of what we are adopting, I also believe that we must take on board ourselves – all in the Stortinget. In particular, we have criticized from the opposition that the government has not dealt with this. As a result, the predictability and safety of the industry have not been achieved. We don't need any more predictability. Therefore, the Working Party has arranged for an updated quota message to be put in place. It's very important, and we should have seen that we did it in this room pretty quickly. Ensuring safe and strong fishing communities with a fairer distribution of resources, ensuring recruitment, doing something about the increased ownership concentration and setting requirements for full-year access to raw materials for industry are things that need to be included in a new quota notification. A new quota notification must help bring the coast together, not split it. You have to think in the long term and give predictable framework conditions. An important decision was taken here in the Chamber after the examination of the Committee on Control, asking the Government to come back to the Stortinge with proposals for what emerged from the Riksrevision. We do not yet know when it will happen, but it is very important. And then I believe that the Labour Party in this case has an important and good proposal, which of course just takes into account what I have just explained. I think that is the best proposal, and although the Labour Party and I agree with the intention – perhaps especially with regard to proposal No. 7 from SV – I believe, however, that the Workers' Party's proposal is better. I think we all need to continue to have a serious treatment of this important industry, and what's going on then is that we need to get an up-to-date quota notification. I take up the proposal from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2129	The representative Cecilie Myrseth has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2134	The Participation Act and the Marine Resource Act shall pursue three main fisheries policy objectives, respectively sustainable resource management, profitability, settlement and jobs in coastal communities. There is broad political agreement on these main objectives. The Progress Party supports the implementation of the rural policy objectives of fisheries legislation and fully supports the objective of higher levels of processing and increased value creation. The National Audit Office’s survey of the quota system and its main findings point to the fact that all ship groups currently operate economically and that they also have good profitability compared to other sectors. A profitable fishing fleet is a prerequisite for socio-economic profitability and for the industry to contribute to employment and settlement in coastal communities. The Progress Party believes it is important to raise awareness and focus on value chains and not just fleet focus in fisheries policy, in order to ensure socio-economic profitability and housing and jobs in coastal communities. We are therefore listening to recordings from the Båtsfjord Merchant Stand Fisheries Group, which points to the importance of having a differentiated fleet and balancing catch patterns over the year, where the bonus scheme is set up for the fleet of industry to contribute to increased value creation and full-time jobs in the rural industry. Proposal No. 1 is largely in line with the request decision No. 98 for 2020-2021, which was unanimously adopted by the Stortinget during the examination by the National Audit Board of the allowance system. Proposals Nos. 2 and 3 have been treated earlier in this room and rejected. Proposal No. 2 is understood to relate the universal trawls to the original intentions of the obligation system. Proposal No. 4 is for treatment based on the recordings of part of the coastal municipalities and the conscript municipalities that have recorded some proposals for the government, and the council confirms that he is working on the matter and evaluates the recordings that have been made there. So the Progress Party will not support any of the proposals that have been promoted in this matter. When you look at the hearings, including: by the Båtsfjord Handelsstand Fisheries Group, they consider that the proposals in several areas will be poor in view of all-year industrial workplaces. The transfer of allowances from these companies to the coastal fleet will not contribute to increased value creation and full-time jobs in the rural industry but to create uncertainty over predictability of all-year jobs created in the rural industry and for further investment and development of such industrial jobs. The Progress Party cannot be in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2151	There's really a lot of good happening today. We have the gallery open, and there's Ottar Brox. He was formerly a prime minister from North Norway, with strong interests in fisheries. He came from S.B., I have to bring that. What Ottar says is that North Norway must never give up fighting for the possibility of harvesting the dish that is right on the outside. Several have pointed out in the debate that the starting point for this proposal is the joyous thing that happened when a unanimous increase examined the report on how Stortinget has managed to manage fishing resources. The Riksrevision actually rendered quite strict judgment on fisheries policy. Management shall ensure three main objectives: sustainable fish stocks, socio-economic profitability and employment and coastal communities. Sustainability has been given priority, and thus the conflict between profitability and district considerations stands. The national audit looked at how the allowance system worked in the period from 2004 to 2018. One of the main findings was that profitability had risen, but it was especially in companies with large trawlers. At the same time, there was a reduction in activity in many coastal communities. They concluded that the ten largest actors in the sea fishing had gone from owning 25 pst. of the cod trawl quota to own 80 pst. Quota vessels are to a lesser extent owned by registered fishermen. Vessels are getting fewer and larger. The price of fish quotas is under pressure, and they are now so expensive that it is almost impossible for a young fisherman to join the game. It's the consequences for the communities, which I'm the one who lives in a municipality with almost one of the best that's of fish fields, are most concerned about. After the success of the Centre Party’s large-scale group, the Working Party has also concluded on the principles set out in the proposal, with the addition that a new quota notification needs to be made that will have to respond more to coastal needs. Although the position does not support the proposals at this stage, it can be read between the lines that they are on the right, and they do not express any disagreement about the objectives, only uncertainty about how to achieve them. They constantly show that the Minister for Fisheries has promised to look at many of these questions and come back to the Stortinget with proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2164	Is it true that the representative should also make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2169	Yes, I'm taking up the proposals from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2174	The representative Geir Adelsten Iversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2179	Ottar Brox sits among us, and it's a great day. I'm his successor. So I got 10 pst. at the previous elections in 2017 in Troms, I got more than that, he said: Now you need to sharpen yourself. We try to do it every day. It's in many ways his perspective we can read in many of the things we're discussing: who should the fishing resource belong to, who should he benefit? We've had a fisheries policy in the last 20 years, maybe even longer, where the fish resource has become a more and more capital object, where there's no proximity to the fishing grounds that determine access to the fish resource. There's closeness to capital, how much capital you have to raise, how good you are to pay as much as possible to buy the allowance. It means that in society that has not so much capital, the families that don't have that much capital, the young people who don't have that much capital -- their possibilities in this system just get worse and worse. This might sound like a purely socialist analysis, but it's the Riksrevision's analysis, which came up with hard criticism that a bunch of pussies were standing behind. So this is actually Storting's analysis, which gave great reference to the government council, which had to go canoeing here a little over six months ago. That's this perspective we're talking about. Here we stand before quite different types of suggestions. For SV's part, there are three things we want to do. First of all, we think that we need to abolish the obligation we have for beams, which it is really documented does not fulfill its intention in any way. We're going to wind it up with the exception of the obligation of activity, which actually creates values in some coastal communities, and move this quantity over to traditional coastal fisheries to bring the fish back to the fisheries-dependent communities and give young people and women the opportunity to come back to the sea. It says SV alone. And then we want to do something about the structure gain, because now these ratios start to go out in time. What's going to happen after that? How do we redistribute it? We want one to use this as an opportunity to redistribute back, so that we get a fisheries policy that follows the intentions of the fisheries policy. For the time being, SV is alone in that proposal. So we want to see this in conjunction with the development of an allowance message. We don't want to do a lot of work around it, because we know what we need to do. We don't have to initiate NOUs or public representations in any way. We can prepare a quota notification relatively quickly that is much more in line with the intentions of the fisheries policy in Norway and the fisheries legislation. With that, I would like to present the SV's proposals on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2199	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2204	The Participant Act and the Marine Resource Act shall pursue three main fisheries policy objectives. It is sustainability, profitability and activity in coastal communities. I perceive that there is a broad political consensus on the objectives. The national audit considers that changes in the quota system over the period 2004-2018 have had a negative impact on some coastal communities. This is in the case of a criticism affecting both previous governments and the current one, and I take it seriously. The majority has asked the government to submit a proposal to the Stortinget on how to follow up the National Audit Office's recommendations; I will come back to that, and we are working on it. I am committed to ensuring that the Norwegian fishing industry has sufficient and stable access to raw material throughout the year. It is a prerequisite for the fishing industry to be able to produce evenly, year-round — in addition to market access and sufficient profitability. The obligation system has been treated several times by Stortinget. I note that the fishing industry, in written input to the nutrition committee, has been critical of the proposal for a representative and has instead presented other measures that can help to increase processing. I'll follow up on that. I cannot see that the proposal to introduce quotas when catches are exported unprocessed is a proper measure to ensure that more raw materials are processed in Norway. Furthermore, the proposal would be very unreasonable for the fisherman – to be responsible for what happens to the fish after it has been delivered. In addition, such a policy could result in an Icelandic structure on the fishing fleet. As we all know, very few people own the resources in Iceland. With regard to the proposal to amend the applicable provisions on price fixing at a fixed minimum price, the Ministry has received a similar proposal from several municipalities in Troms and Finnmark, and we will follow up the Storting treatment of the quota notification, which is also part of the obligation system. Then the proposal from the Norse municipalities and county councils, as I see it, will be the same as minority proposal No. 4, be considered. In this context, I understand that there is broad political agreement on the objectives of district policy. The criticism of the National Audit Office will be followed up. The obligation system has been recently adjusted according to the size setting and further proposals for changes resulting from the size management of the allowance notification will be followed up and evaluated. In this way, we will facilitate increased processing and growth in the fishing industry. Finally, I would like to say that the last eight years have been a golden year for the Norwegian fishing industry in terms of export income and earnings for the industry. There remains to be increased activity in some coastal communities, and it must also be mentioned that there are some coastal communities that have got it better than others.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2219	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2224	Now it is the mantra of this government that everything has become gold in the years they have been sitting, including in the fishing industry. But coastal development turns out to be something else. Of course, what's going well is good, but when you talk about what's been good, you also have to say what's not. What has emerged from the Riksrevision is that ownership concentration has increased, that coastal communities have had negative developments, and that the Fiskerlage and others now say that the quota notification has become a problem rather than a solution. There are issues that the Minister for Fisheries has to deal with, but that he has not yet done. So I ask again, as I have done so many times before: what is the Fisheries Minister's solution to do something about the strong egg concentration that has come? Or you don't want to do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2233	There are a lot of questions in one question. The exact issue of owner concentration is now under follow-up in the Fisheries Directorate, for example. Then I want to say that we have several of the Riksrevision's recommendations in the investigation, and we have also implemented a number of measures. For example, we have increased the requirement to fish king crabs from 12 to 24 months. It also has to do with foreign ownership. There we have been strongly intensified because we suspect that the provisions of the Participant Act on Foreign Ownership may be eroded and diluted. We have strongly reinforced this practice, so that when permits are to be approved by the Directorate, there must be considerable evidence before things are approved. There has been a worrying development. In the case of quota notification 2.0., or updated quota notification, which is the Workers' Party's answer to everything, I'm a little excited about what it really should be. The quota notification that was adopted last year was investigated for many, many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2244	The Minister of Fisheries may pretend that he has not heard the answers to what it should contain, but he has got them quite many times. It is about the fact that the fisheries policy objectives may be slightly different with the Right-Eye and the Labour Party eyes. I think that it is the fisheries policy objectives that must be at the root of the policy-making process. What we've seen in the last year when it comes to the quota notification, in itself means that you should listen to the coast and collectively take that work up again, because what was done was simply not good enough, and that's what the government has to put on its cloak. One of the important things is about fair resource allocation, and it also refers to the National Audit Office. Does the Minister for Fisheries think that the allocation of resources between the groups we have today is the fairest?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2255	The government has as its policy not to make significant redistribution of resources between ship groups. We've followed that up. The notification of quotas has resulted in the coast receiving 4000 tonnes of extra cod and strengthening its basis. Interestingly, the Workers' Party tends to talk about only what goes bad. It's actually very much going well. I have to make the representative aware of it, because it does not seem that the Workers' Party has discovered it. Finnmark, for example, has strengthened its position in Norwegian fisheries. The value of the fish landed in Finnmark is now greater than it has ever been. The number of fishing vessels under 15 meters has increased, and people have good wages. It's okay. It is a fantastic starting point for developing things further rather than driving and blackpainting the situation, as I perceive the Workers' Party is doing. We're going to follow the criticism of the Riksaudition in a good way. We need to have a close dialogue with the industry and find good solutions. Fisheries policy is also about balancing conflicts of interest, and then one must be competent and try to achieve the widest possible consensus.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2264	The strawman argument that the Minister for Fisheries has used since the day he became Minister for Fisheries, that when you say you disagree with him or ask critical questions, you black paint, I think you are unworthy. I don't know anyone who works with fishing, who doesn't want the industry to do well, but you have different solutions and different means to achieve the results you want. It must be possible to ask critical questions. In addition, when those questions are in line with what most fisheries organisations and coastal communities are also addressing, I think it's time to think a little bit about, instead of doing what this government is doing all the time – to be so incredibly self-satisfied with it all, most of all. This also applies to fisheries policy. That means you look a little blind to the challenges that are coming. Finally, I would like to ask because a decision has been made that the Riksrevision report should be sent to the Stortinget for treatment: When does the Council of State plan for that notification to be dealt with in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2271	I think it's very interesting: what makes things go well in some coastal communities and less well in other coastal communities, cf. the report of the Riksrevision? That's very interesting. What's doing that? It's the same trend in other industries as well. Some of the point is that fisheries policy alone cannot take responsibility for relocation or population decline in North Norway. It's a very important factor, there's no doubt about it, but it can't just take responsibility for it. Why is it going so well in Båtsfjord? Why has Øksnes strengthened its position in Fisheries Norway? Why hasn't anyone else done it? That's interesting. I think it boils down to the fact that it's about people, about driving and about working. I really feel that in the big picture, there is a relatively broad political consensus that more activity is needed throughout the coast of Norway and the district of Norway. One wants to facilitate this important industry for our nation. It's important to the world too, because the world needs more healthy Norwegian seafood.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2282	I would like to ask the Council a little bit about the evaluation of proposal No. Article 2 is replaced by the following: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that universal trawls actually deliver fish to the eligible fishing communities in line with the intention of the obligation system. The option would be, if not within two years, to return allowances from these companies to the coastal fleet.» Now it is that the obligation system has been dealt with and changed in the Storting several times under different governments, even when the proposers have been part of the government. And the universal service obligation was changed to an obligation to provide services in 2007. The Directorate for Fisheries controls the annual practice of the obligation to provide services. I would like to know: what kind of consequences would this have for communities with full-year industrial workplaces, if this proposal had been given a majority? And not least, has the Directorate of Fisheries ever revealed any significant breach of the practice of the obligation to provide services?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2294	Very familiar – and I have the same impression as the representative – there has been no significant breach of obligations. And I would say, with the recordings that have also been made on the basis of the proposal, that industry says it's important – for example. in Båtsfjord – with a varied fleet, which we have today, for a stable supply of raw materials throughout the year. I take a lot of that into account, and that's good in line with government policy. We want a differentiated fleet, both large and small, and I find it interesting to see that so many young people want to enter the fishing industry, rate and buyer, and start with a little smaller boats. We have set up good recruitment arrangements. In fact, we also see that the number of vessels under 15 meters has increased in Finnmark in recent years. Young people have a lot of faith in the industry, and I think that's amazing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2302	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, 3 in the proposal for a representative, which concerns a «quota regime motivated by the Icelandic model by up to 20 pst. deductions from quota catches exported unprocessed’. There are two significant differences in Norwegian and Icelandic fisheries. Iceland does not have the major seasonal fluctuations, and especially in cod fishing, which Norway has. Icelandic fisheries are mainly industrial, so it is the industry that decides when to fish, which fish species to fish, how much to fish and where to deliver. It might have a big impact on the shark fisherman, who doesn't know where his raw material is exported when he's delivered it to the berth, and he's the one who's going to be stuck with the quota draw. Might the Council of State be able to give some information on how this rule is practised in Iceland?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2307	Very well known, there is no such rule practised in Iceland. It's just an opening for it in a regulation or a law. But I would say that we do not want Icelandic trends in Norwegian fishing. We want a differentiated fleet. We don't want there to be a very few who own and control the resources. In Iceland, the fishing industry owns the fleet. So we've also acted in relation to it. Even if the law of participants permits up to 40 pst. foreign ownership, we have now significantly intensified that practice. It's a worrying development, and we're afraid we don't have real compliance with the rules of the law on foreign ownership. That is why we have strengthened our practice. It is particularly an Icelandic company that has been very active in Norway. But we also see that the police are concerned that criminal networks are buying into Norwegian fisheries for different reasons – because there are great values and great temptations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2312	I noticed what the Council of State said in the reply with the employee party representative, that the reason why things went so well in Båtsfjord was people – so it's just that there's a difference between people, some places there are better people than other places. If the analysis is: Where is it going in Fisheries-Noreg? I believe that about three times as much of the value from Norwegian fishing ends up with owners in Bærum. Also, much more of the values that come from fishing in the north, goes to Oslo, shows a Nofima report that was released during the Christmas season. If the reasoning is to be followed, it must mean that there are better people there. Of course, this is linked to capital. Will the Council of State say that there is simply a difference between good people – those who inherit, and who are able to attract the most of the value creation in the North fishing?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2319	My reflection around it is that after the corona more than ever in Norway we need more jobs in the private sector. It is people who are going to build and develop these jobs. Since then, in northern Norway, more and more people have also known that fisheries have gone well, that the farming industry has gone well and has a heart for its community, as the farms are locally owned. It is a main focus of family businesses that want to invest and develop. The capital has also come to North Norway. In the case of Bærum, I guess that's among other things. because the headquarters of Aker BioMarine is registered there. But we have now opened that the company Ytterstad in Lødingen, which had to register its ring-not boat in Bærum, can now move it home to North Norway. So flagging home to North Norway happens too. It's significant values, and it's interesting how some places go better than other places. I think it's very much about the people who are going to do the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2326	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2331	We record that the Workers' Party is using every opportunity to advertise a new quota notification, provisionally with the work title 2.0, where, after the party's own statement, it is due to be cleared up in the fisheries policy, if any, by the current government. After listening to the debate in this and the previous case, there is no doubt that it will be very interesting to follow that process from the sideline – from someone who has in any case turned down to re-election. This debate is the last opportunity for the opposition parties, before the Great Britain separates, to demonstrate to one of Norway’s main district industries and coastal voters — well to mark also the south border between Northern and Trøndelag — that they have coordinated and credible policy solutions. And what do we see? Yes, articles and suggestions break in all directions. While the Labour Party in this matter is pleased to make a proposal in airy and vague terms about a quota notification 2.0, the other red-green government comrades from the previous period go a lot more concretely to work. The centre lot will restore the allowance base from the obligation trawls to the coastal fleet unless the assumptions made by the lot itself to fulfil the offer obligation are met. In any case, SV will abolish both the obligation to provide and the processing obligation and restore the entire quota base to the coastal fleet. It is also suggested from the Senterlot that one is willing to go for quota moves by up to 20 pst. if quotad capture is exported unprocessed to the foreign processing industry. We also note that the opposition is constantly referring to the National Audit Office's report on the allowance system and expresses great concern about the concentration of ownership of ships and associated allowances. There is reason to recall that very many of the proposals that have contributed to the concentration of ownership of ships and related allowances have been proposed precisely by the batches that are now criticising the ownership concentration we see. It is close to using the term ‘staurbæring’ about this. It may not be relevant to use such an agricultural concept. I would rather say that trying to get a grip on what is red-green fisheries policy is more like dealing with freshly fished herring without having a fine at hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2342	The vote will now be taken at the next voting time. 13 to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2352	Then Stortinget is ready to vote and first goes to voting on the matter no. 11-19 on yesterday's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2364	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Maria Aasen-Svensrud on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Jenny Klinge on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Jenny Klinge on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 6-8, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 9 and 10, from Maria Aasen-Svensrud on behalf of the Workers' Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6-8, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the Police Act and the Police Regulation in order to clarify that there is more stringent protection of human rights in forced use against children than against adults, including, but not limited to, the introduction of qualified proportionality and necessity requirements by the use of coercion against minors.’; Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to grant exemptions from general arms when the police assist child protection.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to investigate and propose the establishment of an independent complaints body for children under the care of child protection who are under police coercion.’; The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2411	There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to find a solution to the issue of how to provide an overview of police assistance to child protection.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2426	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a child-care counsellor for police assistance to child protection. The supervisor should be developed in cooperation with the employees’ organisations, the protection of children and representatives of the children themselves.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2443	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 10, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to consider an amendment to the Police Act and the Police Regulation in order to clarify that there is a higher level of human rights protection in forced use against children than against adults, including, but not limited to, the introduction of qualified proportionality and necessity requirements by the use of coercion against minors.’; Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case which further clarifies the complaints in which the police assist child protection.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2468	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking to ensure a national practice of logging and statistics on forced use under police missions in child protection matters, which can be made publicly available.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for stricter regulation of the coercive measures and the combination of coercive measures that can be used in relation to children under the care of the child protection system.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a ban on the use of saliva masks on children.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2504	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2523	During the debate, Mr Vågslid has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for the winding-up of land for residential and recreational property.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government, pending the expiry of the law on land fasts, to submit proposals to prohibit the conclusion of new land fasts under the law on land fasts for residential and leisure properties.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Green Party has announced its support for the vote. Red has announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2565	During the debate, Per-Willy Amundsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make proposals for legislative changes allowing the police to establish temporary and geographically demarcated zones in particularly criminalised areas.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2615	During the debate, Mr Eide presented six proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish procedures in order to carry out thorough proportionality assessments of all measures taken in the event of a crisis when action is taken in the field of human rights.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish procedures to enable the Hearing Officer to be used as far as practicable, even in cases of urgency.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish procedures to pay particular attention to vulnerable groups and their needs for all crisis management.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests the appointment of its own representatives of the child who can guarantee the child’s right to be heard in child protection cases before the European Court of Human Rights [[EMD]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose to amend the Penal Code in order to demonstrate that prisoners are, as a general rule, entitled to spend at least eight hours in common outside the cell.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to investigate the creation of an independent Climate Commission, with a statutory mandate to advise on emissions reductions and to monitor compliance with human rights climate obligations.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2670	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2701	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud presented 61 proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2708	I would ask that we vote on each proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e2713	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, then proposed that the 61 proposals of the Progress Party be voted on individually. The President has not recorded that other party groups have indicated that they will support any of these proposals, and the President therefore intends to add an alternative vote between the suspension and the proposals of the Progress Party. The President believes that there has been clear practice of having an overall vote on proposals from the same fraction, among others. to save time. In this case, there will be questions as to whether the Storting should have 62 voting rights, or only one voting rights. Under the last sentence of the second paragraph of Paragraph 59 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, the voting system must be ‘admitted and accepted in advance’. The President will therefore open up views from the other groups of parties to the voting system. Does anyone ask for the word? No one has asked for the floor. We then vote on the Bård Hoksrud's proposal to vote individually on proposals No. 1 to 61, from the Party of Advancement. The representatives supporting Mr Bård Hoksrud's proposal are asked to stand up. 15 representatives voted in favour. The proposal by the representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, that it should be voted on individually is therefore not accepted. The majority then votes on the proposal No. 1 to 61, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. One sound. ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the Toll Debt in the Askøy Package by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt in the Urban Package Bergen by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt in the Urban Package Bodø by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt in the Urban Package Grenland by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt in the Urban Package Lower Glomma by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt in the Nord-Jären urban package by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The Government is asked to propose to wind up the toll debt of the Bømlo package by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt of the E134 Damåsen-Saggrenda project by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’; Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt of the E16 Bjørum-Skaret project by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’;» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt of the E16 Eggemoen-Jevnaker-Olum project by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt of the project E16 Fønhus-Bagn-Bjørgo by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’; Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose to wind up the toll debt of the project E16 Kongsvinger-Slomarka by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’; Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt of the project E18 Gulli-Langangs by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt of the project E18 Langangen-Dørdal by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’;» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt of the project E18 Tvedestrand-Arendal by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’;» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt of the project E39 Kristiansand west-Lwigal west by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt of the E39 Rogfast project by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’;» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt of E39 Svegatjørn–Rådal by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’; Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt of the E6 Gardermoen-Colomoen project by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’; Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt of the E6 Hålogalandsbrua project by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’;» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose to wind up the toll debt of the E6 Colomoen-Moelv project by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose to wind up the toll debt of the E6 Korgen-Bolna project by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’; [[Helgeland North]] Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt of the project E6 Nord-Trøndelag grenade-Korgen by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’ [[Helgeland south]] Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt of the E6 Ranheim-Åsen project by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose to wind up the toll debt of the E6 Ringebu-Otta project by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’ [[Frya-Sjoa section]] Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt of the project E6 Trondheim – Stjørdal by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’;» Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt of the E6 Ulsberg-Melhus project by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’;» Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt of the project E6 Vindåsliene – Korporalsbrua by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose to wind up the toll debt of the E6 Øyer-Treat project by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose to wind up the toll debt of the E6/E18 Østfold package project by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 31 sounds: «The Government is asked to propose to wind up the toll in the Fosen package by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.» Proposal No. 32 sounds: «The government is asked to propose to wind up the toll in the project Fv. 108 New Hooker Island Connection by 1 July 2021 and using the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context.» Proposal No. 33 sounds: «The government is asked to propose to wind up the toll in the project Fv. 17/ fv. 720 Dyrstad-Sprova-Malm by 1 July 2021 and use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.» Proposal No. 34 sounds: «The government is asked to propose to wind up the toll in the project Fv. 255 Jørstad-Segelstad bridge by 1 July 2021 and use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.» Proposal No. 35 sounds: «The government is asked to propose to wind up the toll in the project Fv. 311 The pastry tray shall be used by 1 July 2021 and the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund shall be used in this context.’;» Proposal No. 36 sounds: «The government is asked to propose to wind up the toll in the project Fv. 33 Skardtjernet-Tonsvatnet and Bjørgokreiset-Lower Ødgarden by 1 July 2021 and use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.» Proposal No. 37 sounds: «The government is asked to propose to wind up the toll in the project Fv. 34 Grime-Wesleelva by 1 July 2021 and use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’;» Proposal No. 38 sounds: «The government is asked to propose to wind up the toll in the project Fv. 45 Güsdal by 1 July 2021 and use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.» Proposal No. 39 sounds: «The government is asked to propose to wind up the toll in the project Fv. 47 T-link by 1 July 2021 and use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’;» Proposal No. 40 sounds: «The government is asked to propose to wind up the toll in the project Fv. 519 Finnfast by 1 July 2021 and use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.» Proposal No. 41 sounds: «The government is asked to propose to wind up the toll in the project Fv. 659 Nordøyvegen by 1 July 2021 and use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.» Proposal No. 42 sounds: «The government is asked to propose to wind up the toll in the project Fv. 714 Stokkhaugen-Sunde by 1 July 2021 and use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.» Proposal No. 43 sounds: «The government is asked to propose to wind up the toll in the project Fv. 78 The main tunnel m/routes of supply by 1 July 2021 and use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.» Proposal No. 44 sounds: «The government is asked to propose to wind up the toll in the project Fv. 858 Rya connection by 1 July 2021 and use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.» Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt of the Pre-package by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context.’;» Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt in the Quamma package by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’;» Proposal No. 47 sounds: «The Government is asked to propose to wind up the toll debt of the Trondheim Environmental Package by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context.» Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt of the North Hordland package by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context.’ Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt of Oslopak 3 by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’;» Proposal No. 50 sounds: «The government is asked to propose to wind up the toll debt of the project Rv. 13 Rugged by 1 July 2021 and using the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.» Proposal No. 51 sounds: «The government is asked to propose to wind up the toll debt of the project Rv. 3/rev. 25 Ommensvolen-Grundset/Basthjørnet by 1 July 2021 and use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.» Proposal No. 52 sounds: «The government is asked to propose to wind up the toll debt of the project Rv. 36 Bø–Seljord by 1 July 2021 and use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’;» Proposal No. 53 sounds: «The government is asked to propose to wind up the toll debt of the project Rv. 36 Schlachtekås-Åres by 1 July 2021 and use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’.» Proposal No. 54 sounds: «The government is asked to propose to wind up the toll debt of the project Rv. 4 Lunner frontier-Jaren and Lygna south by 1 July 2021 and use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.» Proposal No. 55 sounds: «The government is asked to propose to wind up the toll debt of the project Rv. 555 Sotra connection by 1 July 2021 and use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.» Proposal No. 56 sounds: «The government is asked to propose to wind up the toll debt of the project Rv. 7 Sokna-Örgenvika by 1 July 2021 and use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.» Proposal No. 57 sounds: «The government is asked to propose to wind up the toll debt of the project Rv. 7/rev. 13 Hardangerbrua by 1 July 2021 and use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’;» Proposal No. 58 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt in the Transport Package for the Kristiansand region by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’; Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the toll debt in the Harstad Road Package by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.’;» Proposal No. 60 sounds: «The Government is asked to propose to wind up the toll in Vossapakko by 1 July 2021 and to use the funds allocated to the infrastructure fund in this context.» Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose the amendment of Section 27 of the Road Law so that revenues from tolls cannot be used for bicycle routes, public transport, urban development and other things that are not directly related to road and improved or increased promotion of the driving lists.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e3082	During the debate, Mr Johnsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a plan for Stortinget with a permanent solution for the small aircraft activity in the Oslo area. Until such time as such a plan is in place and realised, the government must contribute to the continuation of today’s small aeroplane activity at Kjeller Airport.’;» The proposal replaces the Committee's position I. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e3113	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e3132	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e3153	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e3166	The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1-11 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e3178	During the debate, Mr Wilkinson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Swedish Government asks the Government to investigate and come back to Stortinget with proposals to ensure that Section 6-2 of the Health and Welfare Services Act on cooperation between municipalities and regional health companies receives a supplement that respects the principles of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child to be heard, decisions on the best interests of the child and the right to privacy of the child.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e3232	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e3242	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e3254	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e3309	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e3319	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e3331	During the debate Kjersti Toppe has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a public body to look at the regulation of information management in the healthcare sector as a whole, and to promote measures for the Storting that both contribute to easier cooperation and learning across borders, while at the same time respecting the need to protect information, restrict access and ensure the protection of patients’ rights.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e3481	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e3491	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e3503	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 2, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 1, from Morten Stordalen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 1, from Morten Stordalen on behalf of the Progress Party, was changed during the debate and now reads: ‘The government is asked to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with a cost overview of all quotas, participations, projects and actions Norway is, or has been, part of the EU.’ There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Size Transmits Prop. 173 S back to the government.» [[2020-2021]] Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e3534	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘The government is asked to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with a cost overview of all quotas, participations, projects and actions Norway is, or has been, part of the EU.’ The Central Party and the Left Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e3553	from the hall): my vote was not recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e3558	We're correcting the number of votes. The result is that 59 representatives voted against the proposal and 27 voted in favour. That does not mean that the proposal is inconceivable. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e3646	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e3665	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Tore Hagebakken on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the right perspective is used in the Child Coordinator scheme.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Swedish Government is asking the government to investigate and propose a right for children to an individual level in the Kindergarten Act and the Training Act with the corresponding obligation for the education sector to draw up an individual plan.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e3698	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the rights of the child coordinator and the coordinator system for patients in need of complex and coordinated services are fully funded prior to deployment.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e4438	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e4448	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e4462	The Right Party, the Center Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e4481	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and promote the cause of the Storting with measures to ensure that young people and young adults with disabilities and chronic diseases can live free and independent lives. These measures should cover all areas of society, including school and higher education, youth health, working life and auxiliaries. User organisations shall be closely involved in the work.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e4507	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up models to ensure a seamless transition from high school to VTA for young people who need it.’ [[durable work]] The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e4524	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e4535	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e4549	I made a mistake.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e4554	We're correcting the number of votes. The result is that 56 representatives voted in favour of the Committee's position and 30 voted against. – The Committee’s position is therefore favourable. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e4578	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e4642	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e4652	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e4664	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e4715	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e4725	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e4737	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e4784	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e4796	Furthermore, the following were set: II In Law 15 June 2018 No. 32 on package travel and travel guarantees etc. shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 24 second and third paragraphs are deleted. III The law applies from the time the King rules. Amendments to Part II of the Act of 15 June 2018 No 32 on package travel and travel guarantees etc. However, enter into force immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e4815	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e4829	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e4841	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e4941	It is added to the second paragraph of Section 18(b) and the second paragraph of Article 18(c). The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e4956	The rest of I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e4966	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e4976	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e4989	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5002	Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5016	We go back to the debate on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5023	For the Central Party, it is important to have a fisheries policy that contributes to life and activity and value creation in coastal communities. That is the basis of all our fisheries policy. That was why we also put forward this proposal, because we see the need to take some action on this. We have put behind us a processing of an allowance message that was a parody, one of the decisions being that one asked the government to figure out what one had agreed. I thought the Workers' Party's proposal for a new allowance message was good, but I stopped calling it an allowance message 2.0. We shall not have an allowance message based on the Right and Progress Party policy; we shall have a new quota message based on the coastal communities, which is based on the value creation. So there should be no 2.0, there should be no update, there should be a new allowance message to deliver. So there's no way to misunderstand and misinterpret the things that are said by the Center Party in this matter. There was a series of exchanges here between the representative, Mr Strifeldt, and the Minister for Fisheries, where they were talking about the fact that the proposal of the Central Party referred to the Icelandic model. If you look at what's called proposals from minorities in the setting, the Icelandic model is not named in one word, just because we've been working on this, and then we've figured out that no, it might not be a good reference, it might be misunderstood. We have put forward a proposal that says we should work out a model, but we have not mentioned the Icelandic model. Still, they're doing well in this spider to stand there and discuss this. Why do they do that? Is it maybe to take away the focus that the two parties have introduced a fish fiscal fee of 100 million. Do you really want to delete this item? Is it perhaps to remove the focus on the fact that the two batches have given the fishing industry increased CO 2 tax, and they have been some about a compensation scheme that will only be a few years? Is it from which they want to remove the focus? Is that why they have to make things up? Is it because they have to make this kind of splashes that they're running? When applicable, as stated in proposal No. 2, from the Center Party, I am surprised that one cannot agree to see what we can do to secure the territorial policy intentions of the Sea Resource Act and the Participant Act. For sure, it is a great industry, but it is also an industry that is important to ensure activity in coastal communities. The report provided by the Riksrevision was, in fact, crushing. One of the things that was a clear call there is: Greed out for knowledge before a decision is made. I also hope to provide a basis for further work, and there will be a basis for a new, up-to-date notification of allowances. In any case, I hope that multiple parties will support the proposal of the Centre Party No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5039	The Riksrevision presented a very sharp criticism of the fisheries policy in 2004–2018: the quota system does not respect the principles of fisheries policy, as set out in Section 1 of the Marine Resource Act – a very strong opinion. Then we experience that the Control Committee fully supports the Riksrevision's criticism. It is a hearing on 8 October, and all the participants at the Committee on Control say that the study has been thorough and adequate for the description of what is happening in the fisheries policy. Then comes a unanimous decision saying that this should be followed up in a way that serves the third purpose of the marine resource law. The Central Party is today promoting proposals to ensure that the Sea Resource Act and the Participant Act’s regional policy intentions are implemented in practice. We point out that we need to achieve the rural policy objectives of the fisheries policy, because the Riksrevision has said: ‘More fisheries-dependent municipalities have reduced fishing activity’. Luckily, we have the honorary Ottar Brox in the gallery now, a civil agronomist with whom I have a great deal of professional and political fellowship, an honorary who is now experiencing that the Centre Party is taking over these matters in a completely different and stronger way than before. But what are we experiencing? The description of the National Audit Office, the treatment of the Control Committee and the treatment of the Grand Council lead to the government going to the pulpit here and saying that things are going very well, especially in Finnmark. We have a completely different understanding of the reality of what is happening in Finnmark – completely different! It is no wonder that there are no new instruments, because you are very satisfied with what is happening, as opposed to what you have said or given the impression of in the past, and as the Riksrevision has documented. This reminds me of what has happened in this Chamber in the past in terms of agricultural policy. The national audit has slaughtered agricultural policy, the control committee has followed up, a number of speakers have said in that debate that here we must have a change, and then we come to the measures, and then there is no will, for a driver to play. That game has to be stopped, and therefore there needs to be a bold centre party that is a spearhead in the fight for values to be distributed to fisheries-dependent communities in a completely different way from today. When we promote proposals to ensure that the Sea Resource Act and the Participant Act are implemented in practice, there should be a consensus on this. It's not. That is why a new government needs to be created, and the most important thing is that it needs a new policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5058	Finally, it is described in the National Audit Office’s report that East Finland and Finnmark are the winners of the distribution of resources and activity, as one can see from the figures in the report. I am a little bit – yes, not really – surprised by the attempt of the committee chairman to say that when we talk about their proposal, there is the wrong focus in this debate, so we should also talk about fees, which are not part of the issue. Some of the proposals that have been put forward in this matter are very problematic with regard to completely normal legal principles. Firstly, a proposal from the Centre Party is made not only to investigate but also to promote a case in which the fisherman is to be punished for any action that the customer may take, where the fisherman is to be punished if the customer does not process the fish in Norway. It fundamentally violates the principle of guilt. It is the one who does something wrong, who is to be punished, not the one who has done nothing wrong. Punishing those who haven't done anything may sound dramatic, but that's the reality of the proposal. It's arbitrary, and the fisherman can't affect it. So someone has said, among other things. Red that the fisherman may impose conditions of use. That's doubtful, but if that were the case, it would, for example, be. under the loot fisheries so much fish come in that there is only one part of this fish that will be processed. As a result, the lucky fisherman happens to be sold to the industry and is allowed to continue as before, while the unfortunate fisherman, who does not get such a customer, gets laid. It will apply to at least half of the fishermen in this case, and it will happen all at random and all at once. Then a proposal has been made for the obligation trawls to be allowed to be withdrawn from the quotas. It is promoted by the same batch as in its programme that the quota ratio between the fleet groups should not be changed. It is also, as I understand it, in the Central Government of the Central Party's proposal for the next period's programme. There's something inconsistent here. It is not just that they should take the quota from the obligation trawls if they break the legislation. No, the quotas should be taken from the obligation trawls if the communities and businesses to which the offer is subject do not accept the fish and say no to the offer. So you have to be punished even if you have followed the rules to the point. At least it violates the principle of legality. Here are two parties, one who offers, and one who chooses to buy. So if you get in the situation that the buyer says no, the seller will be punished, according to this proposal. Once again, you cook for blacksmiths. These proposals demonstrate the arbitraryness criticised by the Riksrevision in its report. As a result, fishermen are subjected to lower legal certainty. Overall, it is proposed to arbitrarily punish someone for what others do, and to derogate from the principle of legality. This is not an isolated trend from Norway, but it is an unfortunate trend, and we need more predictability and greater security and legal certainty, not more arbitrary for fishermen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5075	The proposal we have before us today addresses a very important question, and then there is one of the issues. Today's fisheries policy does not follow the objectives of the Sea Resource Act and the Participant Act to ensure that fish are right in the national community and benefit the coastal communities. This has been emphatically documented by the National Audit Office's report, on which the Stortinget has signed and supported – even agreed. We have a system that favors capital and not proximity to resources, and this has led to the tragedy we are now experiencing. The obligation system for cod trawlers is a sort of tragedy in Norwegian fisheries in miniature. Here we've had three public distributions, and everyone concludes that the original intentions of this system, which was that one gave industrial companies jet concessions to deliver to the coastal fleet for periods of the year when there were no fish along the coast, did not function properly. As a result, the then State Council, Sandberg, led one to complete the entire system. The SV and the Progress Party disagreed on how to fix this. We meant that one had to go back to the original intention, and that's to lead the quantity to the coastal fleet. Sandberg thought that only a small part was going to the coastal fleet. But we were some about the conclusion: this duty system is a mockery of the people of North Norway, who were promised fish for the coastal fleet. So it's strange that SV is the only party that stands behind this system and get the quantity of fish – because that's what we're talking about – back to the coastal fleet, where it's home. That's what was meant by the whole system, and that's what should have been our goal for absolutely everyone. We have, on the red-green side, been quite a few on more issues in the fisheries policy. SV might be the ones that have gone the longest in some things, but we've basically been some. The premise has been that I have been overestimated that both the Central Party and the Labour Party have been some of them in that there is some fundamental flaw in the distribution of resources today, and that one must change the distribution in a way that suits the coastal communities, traditional coastal fleets, and that allows young people to establish themselves along the coast. That was the requirement that I consider it to be broad agreement. That's the question for the next speaker: Is the Center Party still there? When they have a draft work programme that says that the allocation of allowances should be fixed – that the current allocation of allowances should be fixed – that the Riksrevision has broken down and that the Centre Party here on the Spokesman's Chair has also been criticising, and then has a program soon, then the question becomes the Central Party: Is it so that the allocation of allowances should remain firm?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5092	I want to answer a little bit about what he says. We're going to adopt an adjustment. In particular, representatives, before they have attended the annual meeting and the national meeting, are asked what is to be adopted before there is a suspension. The setting is going to be changed, guaranteed. So to the thing we're doing now. We have discussed this with the trawls and why these trawls have received the concessions they have received, and why they were granted a derogation from the Act of Participation in order to deliver e.g. in South Africa or elsewhere where there was a great need for fish. It is that with the coastal fleet you may not be able – or at least not before – to get enough fish all year round. And then you got these trawls that were supposed to help, especially in the fall when you had to go further to get fish. What are we actually doing now? We have received a clear message from a unanimous mass that we must try to do it in such a way that we get more production on land. And the trawlers were just the body that was supposed to help us get all-year-old jobs on land, but you don't want to go into it anyway. That's what you're really saying. Even though – as I chose to interpret it in my first post – it was like most people would actually go in and see if there are opportunities to do this. How can we do that? The Minister for Fisheries may change the conditions. What's happened before? Fisheries ministers have changed the terms of the offer and all these conditions that make the boats have not delivered as they should after the intention. We clearly want more life in the villages. I live in a village that almost doesn't have life in the autumn, and there are too many who move from. That's why we fight about this. I'm asking the Stortinge to think well about it and to join in trying to get to a system that allows us to get more speed in the communities around. This is not only true of Hasvik, it's true everywhere. It's true in Troms, it's true in Northernland — everywhere, there's too little speed and activity. I was going to say something more about what's going on with quota sales, but I'd rather take that one time later.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5101	I just have to say something about the exchange of lines that was taking place with the Minister for Fisheries, where once again you point out that there is talk, that it is black paint, criticising the government. With all due respect to reporting, it's quite tone-deaf, because you have to listen a lot more than you talk, even in politics, and when you have such a clear feedback from the coast that what you've done is not good enough, maybe it's time to start a little self-search: why is that? Why is this criticism coming? Could there be any other reason than that there is only disagreement between the opposition and the position? It was also suggested that in the coastal communities that have succeeded, it is about individuals. It's very recognizable right-hand rhetoric – when things go well, it's always about individuals. But it's about the community. It's about social responsibility. It is about what should be the basis for success in individual coastal communities. It must be a fisheries policy that underpins success everywhere, in all coastal communities. But it's up to individuals. I do not say that in order to undermine the work and efforts of many individuals, which obviously contribute positively to many coastal communities, but on the basis of which there must be a fisheries policy in which we want to develop the fishing communities, we want to achieve a fair distribution. What has been said is that the fleet structure has become less varied. Vessels have grown larger and fewer. There's a development that has to stop. Then you need a new round of quota notification. What's the difference here is that the Workers' Party wants to do something about the distribution that has been. That is why we have proposed that the open group be removed from the top. That's why we really wanted to have a dynamic jet, but if you want to lock it, at least it has to be by a different factor than what you've calculated. You also want an extra quota scheme of at least 10 pst. It's an important and correct redistribution, I mean. So there's a lot of points that we want to add to the message, but I think most people have brought with them, even though you're going to be something else later. So to this that comes from the Christian People's Party. So there's no limit to how many times you have to say that the opposition is not combined, or so on. We only have one government in the country, which is going to present policies on the basis of its government platform. The opposition to the Storting is not a government that has a common platform, but I am sure there will be a much better fisheries policy with a new government. It is also a fact that the coast is disappointed by the Christian People’s Party and the representative of Reiten.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5112	It might have been interesting to have a discussion about who this ‘coastal’ is, as the Workers’ Party’s representative always refers to. It is clear, at least, that there are quite divided opinions about the message being delivered. Is there one thing that has been important to me as a government council, is spending a lot of my time listening to the industry and trying to find balanced and good solutions. So I think that if the Labour Party representative asks in the industry, she will soon get the answer that I am quite good at listening. I want to say that we have succeeded with much. We have succeeded in a desired policy over many decades, really, with profitability and sustainability. But with regard to the last objective of the Marine Resource Act, activity in the coastal communities, not all of us have succeeded. I think it's important that you sometimes have some facts combined with the myths. I noticed that the representative Lundtigen believes that Finnmark is going very badly. The fact is that on the fishing side there is a lot of good going on, and it is also clear that it could have been better. But when the value of the country fish in Finnmark is record high, when the number of fishing vessels below 15 meters has increased, and when, for example, in Vardø, the arnesty of the coastal uprising, now the country is much more fish than ten years ago, then there are some fact-finding niggas that tell that it's going well. I think if you're going to make people move to a part of the country, you're going to have to talk to the district, not talk it down. I may sometimes think that a little bit of the discussion becomes too much talk and crisis maximisation, although it is not that I should, for my part, focus only on the positive. I think we agree that the fish are the community's resources. It is managed through some complex legislation and regulations to meet the objectives of the Marine Resource Act. So it's about that to get this triggered, we need people, we need private ownership, we need to create more within the framework set by the authorities. If we are to have life and activity and create more, we must have the people who want to build a business, who might want to develop a fishing industry, and they must once again see opportunities for both profitability and the market if we are to get them going. It's about, and the opposition doesn't say a word about, except that the only solution is that now we have to have a new allowance message. And then you're going to spend an additional number of years investigating something that's really pretty well figured out. And the big elephant in space, the big unresolved resource distribution problem, is a relapse of the structural quotas and finding a good solution to it in collaboration with the industry. I also see that marine research opens up new opportunities for all-year-old jobs, for example. freezing technology to be tested in Båtsfjord. It's amazing – maybe in combination with new species of breeding such as cod.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5125	When Richard Nixon was to be elected, or made Presidential candidate in the United States, one of the major issues of conflict was the war in Vietnam. Nixon won the election partly by saying that he had a secret plan for how to end the war in Vietnam, and that he could not tell about that plan before he was elected. It turned out that the plan was to give up. I wonder if this is a bit of the same thing that happens in connection with the Workers' Party's proposal for a new quota notification and a secret plan, because it is obviously not clear what is in this. There were now some concrete examples from the representative Myrseth: the open group is taken from the top. Open group is taken from the top, that's what the arrangement is today. So it's given a compensation that makes the distribution become 4,000 tons in plus to the coastal group. Is that what you're going to change, or what is it that you're going to change? How much is going to change? What are you going to change? The extra-quota scheme is 10 pst. – the two schemes combined. I can refer to the comments in connection with the quota notification. What is it when you're going to change, and how much does one intend to change? It's pretty much uncertain. To take the last one, the only thing that has been agreed on by the Fiskarlag and other fishermen’s organisations is not to touch the allocation of resources between the vessel groups. There are those who believe otherwise, but that is what has been the position of the Fishlayer. But that's exactly what one wants to do and as a signaler here, and that's what will create conflict. It will not create more harmony and understanding along the coast, but it will create more conflict. So to create predictability, at least you have to first tell us what you're going to do with the structural regression. You don't, you just say it's going to get better. We don't know what it's going to be. So you're talking about the owner's concentration, but this is the party that's decided that exactly the one scheme that has led to the largest owner concentration in the small groups, namely, co-fished, should continue. There are 360 crackers about, I think, that are out of operation today because of that scheme, which is strongly criticised by the National Audit Office. That's the scheme one is going to keep going. It leads to owner concentration, and it won't change unless you change those rules. In addition, no specific proposals have been made to address the concentration of ownership. It is a question that we and others observe this, must ask ourselves about the allocation of resources: is it the different proposals of the Centre Party or the SV or the rather unclear attitude of the Workers' Party to determine how much resources are to be allocated? And so we can keep going down. This seems at all like a secret plan — more like a metaplan than a real plan for it further. I think the disappointments are going to stand in line if you think this is going to lead to greater harmony.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5143	When one listens to the posts in the Chamber from the representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and reads the suggestions that SV is making in this case, one can almost wonder if Norway has a coastline south of Brønnøysund. The fishing resources belong to the peoples of the coast, and the people of the coast also live in Giske, Ålesund, Herøy, Austevoll and Kristiansand. The government has decided on the Granavolden platform – and we would like to acknowledge that it was the Christian People's Party that stood on to get it in – that the quota allocations between the fleet groups in the Norwegian fishing fleet should be fixed. It is a recognition of the principle that Norway needs a fleet of varying sizes of vessels, where the smallest fleet contributes significantly during the season, while the large vessels ensure that raw material access is also outside the seasonal peaks. The fisherman on board the ring-not boat from Fosnavåg or the cod trawler from Austevold is as good a fisherman as the shark fisherman from Hasvik. Both of these fishermen and the vessels from which they operate have an important place in the Norwegian fishing fleet. When talking about fishermen from the south – especially from SV, but also partly from the Senterpartiet – there are consistently negative expressions that are used: large capital and quota barons. Is it red-green fisheries policy to suspect that part of the fleet operating effectively on large vessels and which is essential to ensure the smoothest possible access to raw materials throughout the year? What do the representatives Knag Fylkesnes and Adelsten Iversen think about the trawl fleet, the ring note fleet and the autoline vessel from Gisk in quota notification 2.0?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5152	For the Central Party, it has at least been important to have a fisheries policy for Norway as a whole, for the whole of the coast, and to take the difficult balances that have been. But I'm going to admit one thing: we don't have the same way as the sitting government did to collect the coast. The centre party is not okay. The way this government has managed to gather fishermen with small boats and fishermen with large boats, whether they fish cod or they fish, we haven't seen such a common resistance in a long time. Because that's what the quota message did. The quota notification mobilised the coast across a resistance to government policy – to resistance to a quota bank, to resistance to a rental scheme, to resistance to a natural resource rate, to resistance to a fiscal charge on fishing, to resistance to increased CO 2 tax and to resistance to a compensation scheme to be stepped down over four years. Collecting the coast the way this government has done, I don't think we can make it, but it's not a goal either. Because we also want a policy to play along with the coast, starting from: How can we develop coastal communities in both the north and the south? What do you need to do then? There are some hard decisions. There are difficult questions: how are we going to manage the radiation ratios that are currently in the industry? But the purpose of these quotas must be met. If we don't need to re-arrange the quotas and say, we didn't achieve the goal that was the goal when the industry in its time got a derogation from the Participant Act to have quotas. If not, we must think again. Then we have to look at: how should we do this? We can do it in different ways. We can do it in the Centerpart mode, which is that then we'll re-require the ratios within two years, or we can do it in the SV mode, which is that it should take a space between 15 and 30 years to re-distribute them. But we also want to give that part of the fleet a chance to actually fulfill what is meant, before we take action. I think it's important to find a mirror in the government party and think, "Has it been so successful what we've done these years? At least it's made me very sure: there's a need for a new quota message, and there's a need for a new policy, which plays along the coast, and which doesn't gather the coast into a common resistance to government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5164	The representative Cecilie Myrseth has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5169	It's said that things are pretty well figured out. Tell the Riksrevision – I'm not sure they fully agree. The question can also be asked: why did the consequences have to be investigated after the decision we have taken here in the Chamber, if everything was so well investigated? It is not good to say, except that it was not good enough, and therefore it must be done again. That's where we listen to the coast, and we're going to do it. And we want something different than this government. We want a different course. We want a fairer distribution. It is not possible to say that a message must be provided from the opposition. That's what government teams do. Hopefully we'll do that for the autumn. Then I also took the floor to say that the Workers' Party supports proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5176	The representative of Geir Adelsten Iversen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5181	It was about Vardø and that more fish had come to Vardø. That's right. I got a question from the Fiskriblad about that. What has happened is that it has moved a couple of relatively large boats to Vardø, which deliver directly there. They have built up a receiving plant and eviscerated the fish, suspended their heads. Otherwise, all of the fish goes straight to the trailer and is produced abroad. There will be no value creation in Varde of it. What I want to say at the end of the day is that most companies along the coast, at least in Finnmark, as I know very well, lack fish, they lack production opportunities to get full-time jobs. That is what the Minister for Fisheries can do today if he wants to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5188	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5193	The councils are talking about one looking at Båtsfjord. But one should follow the values, not the landing of fish. Where are the values going? There we see a great deal of mobility from the fisheries-rich communities to the capital environment. It's a fact. It does not mention the Council of States in a word. If you want to do something here, something has to be done with the allowance allocation. One must do something about the composition. That's the only way you can do something here. And in front of your representatives, President, let's put the proposal No. 7 and No Eight. One is to change the resource base, where traditional coastal fleets and open groups are significantly strengthened. The parties that are in it must vote for it, those who disagree with it, vote against it – simply fine. The second proposal is that when the structure is to fall back, there is a possibility of redistribution. If you agree that it will lead to a stronger coast, you must vote for it. If you're against it, you're against it, simple and easy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5202	First, Mr Lundtegen, who was so concerned about their proposal No. 2 in the vote does not get a majority, and that thought it should have been unanimous. There has been a unanimous vote in Stortinget once before; that is why the Progress Party does not want to vote again for it. That was when the Stortinge examined the Riksrevision report, and proposal No. 2 from the Centre Party is largely in line with the request decision No. Ninety-eight. Proposal No. 3 in the setting, from the centre party, shall be understood as relating the universal trawls to the original intentions of the duty system. The obligation system has been treated and changed in Stortinget several times under different governments, including those of which the Center Party has been part. The delivery obligation to which they refer was changed to an offer obligation in 2007 and the Fisheries Directorate controls the annual practice of the offer obligation. In recent years, checks by the Directorate of Fisheries have not revealed any significant breach of the practice of the obligation to provide services. So the obligations are fulfilled by those imposed on them. Looking at the consultation input from the Båtsfjord Merchantstand Fisheries Group, they are quite clear that the proposals of the Centre Party will be poor on several points, given several years of industrial work. A transfer – outlined here – of quotas from these companies to the coastal fleet will not contribute to increased value creation and full-year jobs in the rural industry, rather on the contrary. It will help to create uncertainty rather than predictability for the full-year rural workplaces that we, after all, still have. So a bold centre party, which Lundtigen was in, will turn off the lights of the last societies that still have and operate in filet production in Norway. It's a little bit special. Then I just have to say to the representative Myrseth: it's decided that the open group should be taken from the top. There may not be a need for an allowance notification 2.0 if you are reading through the allowance message that has already been adopted. Most of the measures in the notification of allowances were well investigated by the government, but some points were changed in the Storting, which requires further investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5213	Proposal No. of the Central Party 2 is to ask the government to ensure that the territorial policy intentions of the Sea Resource Act and the Participant Act are implemented in practice, and to make the necessary proposals to ensure this. I am very pleased that the Labour Party is now supporting the proposal. We have seen that the Progress Party is also in favour of the proposal, only that they have put in place the practice of what they are in favour of, they vote against. But it's being recorded, so they're being included among those who are in favour of the proposal. So then we've laid a foundation that's a little wider than if the Progress Party had been brave and voted against. I can assure the representative Strifeldt that the centre party will not extinguish any light in Båtsfjord. I've been there. I've met those people -- beautiful people, people who are unemployed, creative people. It is people who understand that Båtsfjord is dependent on viable policies in the other Finnmark communities, because if Båtsfjord is left alone, there will be little support for the fisheries policy that is being pursued. At that time, the Right will carry out basic interest tax, quite naturally, because the fisheries policy does not distribute the values of all coastal communities. The Council of State says that the government has succeeded in implementing a desired policy. The point is that the majority of the fisheries-dependent municipalities in Finnmark have a sharp decline in the population. One needs to strengthen the value creation of those areas and more allowances need to be allocated. If the fisheries policy is not to take responsibility, then who in the world is to take that responsibility? Is that diplomacy? No, these are quite simple contexts that need to be implemented and implemented by a new government. There has to be a new hope for those people who want to develop that society, and we have to get a transfer of people. It's about money, it's about quotas, it's about values – and it's about honesty. I'll end it. People now demand that a word is a word and a man is a man, that it is honesty in what you say. If one wants the fisheries policy to contribute to the lifting of fisheries-dependent communities, then support a proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Then we come back to different measures in addition to what the Center Party has now promoted. We're coming with more, because here we have to put in new, strong economic instruments, otherwise the Council of State gets right that policy continues as it has come and gone until today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5224	Fish all year long, Adelsten Iversen said. Yes — safe fish throughout the year in the sea, but probably not on the farms. There is a clear lack of communication in the Centre Party, where the representative Pollestad is trying to take it down a little bit where Adelsten Iversen and Lundteg are far away from balanced solutions. What's going to happen if you put Adelsten Iversen's mantra in place? Then it won't be fish all year long. Then there will be fish that are very seasonal, and there will be no more light in the houses, there will be less light in the houses along the coast. Is that what we want? We who were behind the quota notification don't want what we actually want to live on the coast. Some were in the National Audit Office's report. I am a little surprised during this debate, one of which highlights how fantastic the co-fishing system was in its time. What was that? Yes, a hidden structure under ten feet. So a hidden structuring is the quotient 2.0 clearly wants us to keep going forward. And then what the representative Nilsen said, obviously so secret, this, from the representative Myrseth and the centre party, is that we hardly know what it should be. I have great respect for the representative, Knag Fylkesnes, even though I disagree with his position. At least he shows knowledge in the field, even when we negotiated the quota notification. That doesn't mean, of course, that I agree with the sum at the end, but at least we agree that there has to be a knowledge base. If then these are all-year-old jobs, which we come back to all the time, at least the proof today is that the answer from especially the Center Party and the Workers' Party is that it gets darker along the coast than is the case today. For part of this as, among other things, The Båtsfjord environment is clear that predictability is sought, while the policy it points to from the opposition is unpredictable.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5238	I thought we were coming to the end, but I see that the representative of Aasland has signed up, so we can get another round – we'll see. First of all, proposal No. 8 from SV. From the pulpit it is presented as a proposal which refers to the structural quota decline. The proposal itself makes it clear that it is at the time of the transition to the new set-up of the quota quantity. It's okay to get a clarification of it; there are two very different suggestions. Now I see that the representative is busy, so it is not safe we get an explanation of that. With regard to the two proposals we have discussed most here today, namely the proposal of the Central Party on quota moves and on the withdrawal of the obligation trawls: since I thought we were now at the end of the debate, and since this is probably one of the last posts I hold in the Chamber, I choose to take this a little untimely post: «There was a little Bye, in the city was a blacksmith, who was dangerous when he became angry. He said he had an enemy; for evil for both of them they were found in a crown. [[You can always get them, I don't have them, it goes My reader just like that!]] [[I myself in Kroe will drink; for otherwise I will not come. Attention, reader! This: I always go to the honeymoon.]] They drank, as they said, and, after many skirmishes, hotly spoke, smote the enemy on the planet, so strong was this blow that he saw no day, and has one since seen it. As soon as the Forrest was arrested, the blacksmith was put. A field skier gets the dead barrel, and about a violent Death certificate sends. The killer is interrogated and contemplating. His Haab was that he should lift up, and there was forgiveness of his adversary. But listen to me, Løier! And it came to pass, that the day before the judgment shall come, that four citizens shall stand before the judge: and the most eloquent man said, ‘Course! We know that you always see in the city; but the good of the city is bad for us to have our filthiness. His death does not raise the dead, does it? We never get igia so good a man. For his crime we far too cruel a fine, if he can help." – «Think, though, Ven! there Life for Liv maae is fined.» – «Here lives an arm outlived Baker, who fucks soon also takes. We've got two if you took the oldest of them off, right? Thus Life was paid for Life." – «Yes,» said the Judge, «the invasion was wrong. I said to set up nuts; for in so important a fall one must well consider, I wish our blacksmith I could ham life! Goodbye, people! I do all I can.’ – “Good-bye, man!” He foliageeth diligently in his law: but findeth nothing there, Whereby is the prohibition, to make an ewe: he maketh his decision, and so saith this judgment: [[Who will hear it, he came!]] "For I know that the oldest baker shall avoid it, and that the murder of life should be done for his life, and that he should be punished for his own good, and that he should be likened to hatred, and to terror. The baker wept for God, when he was led away." Or, it's fishing in tears for God's sake when the quota was taken away.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5262	Poetry - the President must say!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5267	I almost forgot what I was going to say – it was impressive by the representative to remember all that. I want to say that the government's commitment to marine research opens up new opportunities. It is also particularly related to Båtsfjord, because this year a pilot project on new freezing technology, which once again opens up the possibility that if this is true, fish that have been frozen for minus 40 degrees for three years, are of as good quality as fresh fish. In other words, it opens up opportunities for new jobs throughout the year in a way that we haven't seen before. In combination with research efforts, we have also succeeded in breeding new species, cod is one of them. I believe that this in combination can help to ensure more stable access to raw materials and thus more all-year jobs. If we want people to move somewhere where there's work to get, you prefer to move for a full-year job, not for a part-time job. So I think it's important to lift up Boat Fjord. We have succeeded in obtaining results from the fresh fish system with live storage bonus, which is also said by the recording from Båtsfjord. It provides the basis for further developing this. I have to say that when Båtsfjord and Øksnes have joined the Cod Cluster and have a goal of creating several thousand new jobs based on the fishing industry, I am inspired and hope that there are opportunities. Here's someone who sees opportunities based on the amazing resource that the fish and our marine resources are. Last year, the Central Statistical Office reported that the average income of a fisherman was DKK 900000, evenly above all. That means it's going well. It might also be what makes young people attracted to the industry. There is a record for Norway as regards the search for year number two on fishing and fishing. I would say that the fishing industry is one of the industries where the authorities have made the best possible use of all the different schemes. We have an open-group recruitment rate for everyone under 30 years. We give salmon concessions to high school so they can have school ships, etc. The sum of all of this makes it possible to start up the industry. You have to have a boat to start with in an open group. It is important to cheer up on all the family holdings which constitute the backbone of the fishery and maritime food industry. They need predictable, stable framework conditions. Mostly, each fishing vessel is essentially a family business. It is also linked to the fact that we must continue and not rock too much in the allocation of resources between ship groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5282	Bengt Rune Strifeldt has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5287	Just to repeat it, we are not voting in favour of proposal No. 2, because it has largely been adopted unanimously and the work is already under way. Reference is made to the fact that the population has fallen into the coastal communities of the north. Yes, it is, while landings of raw materials are increasing and have increased significantly in the north during the investigation period discussed by the Riksrevision. Then maybe it's okay to raise your eyes a little and have a value chain focus over a fleet focus – as the Centre Party has in this case – to ensure settlement and jobs in coastal communities. The representative Lundtegen said he has visited Båtsfjord, but I record that he chooses not to listen to them. So a bold center party will turn off the lights in the last societies that are still operating with the processing industry, which the Båtsfjord community warns against.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5294	This is a little debate on repeat, which we have sometimes had before this session. But I want to start with two events related to Norwegian fisheries in the last eight years. One was when the government released the quota notification. It created riots and life and stir along the whole coast. Not many people thought it was a good and forward-looking message. On the contrary, there was quite a lot of frustration and discussion as a result. The second was when the Riksrevision presented its report and slaughtered the fisheries policy. These are the two matters that have received the greatest attention, and which have been the major issues. When I come into the room here now and hear the government parties once again try to substantiate the quality of the quota notification, I am amazed. One can start by listening to those who have their shoes on, off the coast. There are major challenges to the situation as it is today. Yeah, it's great that the fishermen make $900,000 on average. But are we optimally allocating resources? Can we put the resources that come from the sea, optimally working to create optimism, prospects and security along the coast? That's the question, not the average salary of a fisherman. What I think is far too little about in the debate is: why are we not able to create more in e.g.. The industrial stage, based on the underlying fisheries policy? There are important questions to be answered. Then there's more knowledge and listening to those who have the shoes on, which I think is quite essential in that debate. There is no doubt that both the quota notification and the National Audit Office report show that there should have been a different rate that formed the basis for the direction of Norwegian fisheries policy. It's a simple confession to bring with it, and that recognition has been kept by the Workers' Party all along. That is why we say it is absolutely necessary that we prepare a new quota notification and look at this with new eyes and with new give. Then I want to correct a few misunderstandings, not least from the representative of Skkelstad, who was inside that the co-fishing system was a hidden structuring. It's with respect to notifying customs. The co-operation scheme was introduced at a time when the whole whitefish sector was at risk of breaking its back due to very poor economic conditions. That was the basis for the co-fishing system, and it might have saved some who could still be in the fisheries sector. If the system is perfect, we can discuss a lot up and down. But it was put into a very special situation, a very demanding situation for the whitefish sector, and had nothing to do with hidden structuring.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5307	The President would remind the representative that the expression ‘customs’ is not to be regarded as a good parliamentary practice. The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5314	I will admit that I have been in Boat fjord, and when it concerns Boat fjord and fishing, there is little customs. Båtsfjord has here recorded some other proposals that they thought should have been included, but if there is one thing that is certain, it is that in Båtsfjord they have understood that the fisheries policy does not live in isolation – he is related to other aspects of the policy. There are certainly few places in the country other than Båtsfjord, and a few other speakers in the country than the Central Party spokesman there, who have been a clearer voice against the centralisation policy of the government – who have been more at the forefront of their community in the fight against centralisation from the right. So using Båtsfjord as an argument for government policy, I don't think that's why. So I hope I get to go to the digging party in Båtsfjord next year, and then we'll see who was right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5323	To the article by Aasland – first of all, if you say that you are going to step out a new course, at least you have to point to the direction of the sky. It is throughout this debate that it does not do the Workers' Party. It doesn't keep saying that you're going to have something else; you have to say what you're actually going to have. And you don't do that, as we've shown in previous articles here. Secondly, as far as the knowledge base on why there is less processing in Norway is concerned, it is actually quite good, and there must be little within Norwegian fisheries policy and the knowledge base behind it in order not to have brought it. One of the most central parts of it is the seasonal fluctuations in Norwegian fisheries. There are master tasks, research investigations and tons of paper and investigations that show this and point to this. So it's not unknown what's the reason for that. And some of the measures taken in relation to the notification of allowances will help to improve the situation, including: an increased processing standard. The co-operation mechanism was not put in place to save the economy. It didn't. The reasons for the co-fishing system were the safety of those on board and the safety of small and poor vessels on board. The fact that it's not structured is very strange, because when you use the Riksrevision as a truth witness in almost every post you keep here, you should also use the Riksrevision as a truth witness in this case. And it's the Riks revision that says this has been a hidden structuring. It is the Riksrevision that points out that this has led to – unlike and to a greater extent than any of the other arrangements – that several vessels have left fishing as active vessels, and that the number with which we operate, 1100 vessels below 11 metres, actually includes between 300 and 400 vessels that are not really active, because they are actually operating together. This describes that it is possible that there is a need for knowledge, but it may not have been addressed correctly in this case. We have not been given any clarification on the proposal for SV; I expect that we will get that. To Båtsfjord: Yes, the basis for the largest company in Båtsfjord are deliveries, which would have ceased following the proposal of the Centre Party on the obligation quota scheme. Representative Adelsten Iversen can shake his head, but the basis for the delivery of marine fish in Båtsfjord is among other things. an allowance that should have been delivered elsewhere — if it had been required. It is delivered today in Båtsfjord. If the proposal of the Centre Party is adopted, it will disappear from Båtsfjord. It is a side of this which should perhaps be assessed before the proposal was put forward, namely the consequences for the farms that actually benefit from these deliveries today, not least for the farm in Båtsfjord, but also for the rockfish industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5334	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5339	I'm proud of Båtsfjord. That's the municipality where the Center Party made a knockout on the Right – knockout. It is the municipality where the obligations associated with the trawls are largely fulfilled, and it gives activity. Well, it works. What does the Center Party want with the rest of Finnmark? I've been to Loppa; we want some things with Bergsfjorden, Nuvsvåg and Sandland. The priest in Loppa told me that I had to stand up for them as far away, when we visited the island of Loppa – an island where there has been a settlement for nearly a thousand years, but where there were then seven inhabitants. We have to stop playing politics. When obligations are given to trawler concessions, it shall be implemented. We don't have to wear it like that. It's to be practiced. There I like the Americans; they call a spade a spade and intervene when interests go against the interests of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5349	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5366	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5373	I thank the Committee on Cooperation in this matter, which has also been within the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy for its opinion. Through this proposition, the Government requests the consent of the Storting to participate in the EEA Committee’s decision to include it in the EEA Agreement on the regulation of the establishment of the programme for the internal market. The Internal Market Programme consists of formerly separate programmes and budget lines. From the Norwegian side, it is decided to participate in parts of the programme in which Norway continues to participate in programmes where Norway has obligations under the EEA Agreement, and to participate in two new parts of the programme in which it is assessed that Norway will have a great deal of time left for participation. The proposal sets out the different programme components and programme elements and the parts of the programme in which Norway is not to participate. It is important for Norwegian business that we consent to participation now, so that we avoid delay for Norwegian business, and that they can be present from the start by 2021. Feedback from relevant actors and institutions is that they are consistently positive to Norwegian participation in the Internal Market Programme. The internal market is a cornerstone of the EU and has contributed to growth, competitiveness and employment since its establishment. As an integral part of the EU internal market through the EEA Agreement, it is important for Norway with a well-functioning internal market. A common regulatory framework creates predictability and a level playing field for all. The programme now starts in 2021 and lasts until 2027. The agreement itself was not formally adopted in the EEA Committee when the proposal was sent from the government to the Stortinget. However, it was adopted in the EU on 28 April this year. Now only the EEA Committee will be dealing with it, and it has been informed that there is nothing to suggest that it will not go through as sketched. The Central Party and the SV proposed to the Committee that the proposal be returned to the Government pending the examination of the EEA Committee. To date, it is worth mentioning that the opportunity to seek prior consent in Stortinget was also used in the previous treatment of Norwegian participation in EU programmes. A postponement of the case would be unfortunate and could create both uncertainty about Norwegian participation in the programme and, in particular, that we were not given the opportunity to participate in the programme from the start.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5396	I will not comment on the content of this matter. I'll just briefly explain to the government the minority proposal that the Center Party and SV have put forward on this matter, to send the proposition back to the government. The background is that the government has resorted to a habit of sending these cases to the Storting before they are formally discussed in the EEA Committee. We do not feel that we should take the bulk treatment sufficiently seriously, and that is why we have put forward such a proposal in this and a number of EEA matters within the Committee. With that, I take up the proposal that the Central Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5401	Then the representative Geir Pollestad has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5406	The EU is our main trading partner, and the internal market facilitates a competitive and internationally oriented Norwegian business. It gives us a level playing field, and it contributes to the efficient use of resources and to increased value creation. It is in our interest that the internal market works well, and the EU's internal market programme is therefore important to Norway. The main objective of the Programme is to strengthen the internal market and the competitiveness of EU and EEA enterprises. Programme elements participating in Norway shall provide better regulation and enhanced cooperation between national authorities in several key areas. They also provide Norwegian SMEs and entrepreneurs with access to more new schemes and instruments. In addition, the components of the programme shall include, inter alia: contribute to better consumer protection, better financial reporting standards and better common statistics for the internal market. It is important that the EU's internal market policy is consistent with Norwegian interests. Norwegian participation in the Programme will be an important contribution, as the activities and cooperation under the Programme contribute to the development of EU policies for the internal market and related areas. Through our participation, Norwegian views and experiences will therefore be expressed in policy areas that are important for Norwegian businesses and citizens. Relevant actors and institutions are in favour of Norway's participation. That opinion shall state, in the light of this minority comment made by the Centre to the Chairman of the Committee, that the matter should have been settled in the EEA Committee before being submitted to the Grand Duchy. The pre-consent procedure for Stortinget has been proposed in order to allow Norwegian actors to participate in the programme from the start of the programme. This is in the same way as in the previous treatment of Norwegian participation in EU programmes. No substantial changes are expected to be made to the draft decision of the EEA Committee and, if there are any significant changes, the matter will be referred back to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5417	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5434	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, six lines with replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5441	First of all, thank you at least to the majority of the committee, who have managed to gather about a position that I think is good for Norwegian business. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their simplification on the agenda, although this may not be the main debate. The Committee agrees, in principle, on the premise that continuous business simplification – that is a good starting point – must be carried out and that saving for Norwegian business is really a significant cost if it is high on the management agenda and not least when we politicians are also going to make demands. It's about saving resources, saving time, safe businesses and safe jobs for people, too. In this way, it is an important matter, and it is a work that has been going on for many years. It has actually been possible to achieve good results, although I believe that if we have a survey around the Norwegian business community, there are many who feel that they are still reporting on as many forms as one did in the past. The starting point for the proposers was that one should have a saving of 20 pst. of the administrative costs by 2025. In the course of the Committee's proceedings, the proposers have been involved in adjusting a little, so now there is a united majority – the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party – asking the government to set a target of 11 billion. kr i reduction in the administrative costs of business related to the rules and forms imposed by public authorities by 2025. Then I might have to make it clear that there are annual savings we're talking about. I think it's the right goal, I think it's a clear goal, and it's important that a fast-tracker can follow it up and be able to meet that goal, just to save the burden that's on business. With that, I recommend the majority position of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5454	Simplifying is a beautiful word. We never have to stop doing that, and we have to work on it all the time. It is gratifying that under the current government there has been important and extensive simplification work in both periods and at the latest, as the representative before me mentioned, in the current period, by 11 billion. kr. The target was 10 billion. kr, so you've reached the goal, and well that's it. But a lot remains, as the committee also points to. I think we can really conclude that there's always going to be a lot left, because there'll always be a need for new simplifications, there'll always be new technical solutions, there'll always be a social development that will make you need to adjust and simplify all the time, all the way. At the same time, I think we're going to look a little bit closer at ourselves here at Stortinget, because it's probably like some of the reports we get back from business that things have become more complicated or more bureaucratic, or that there are more requirements for reporting, are the direct consequences of the laws we adopt here. So it's a majority for a new goal. I'm very happy that it stayed in dollars and not in percent, because this is not an exact science. Of what would one percent be set? If it was the current year, it would have been the number of forms, etc.? That it's a sum of heads, I think anyway, it makes a lot of sense when you're forming a majority in the Biggest for this. So I think it's a shame to make a goal that's a little bit like this: think about a number. For here there's a work going on, and there could be a better foundation for the Storting before you set such a goal by clarifying even more: that's what we're going to do, that's the way we're going to do it, we're guessing that, after careful assessment, it could be equivalent to a number in the order of magnitude like this. What we're doing now is we're spinning the lucky wheel, it stops at 11, and then we're picking it as the goal for the future. What if that number had been 18, or if it had been 22? It's a little bad if the Storting then said, "No, it's going to stop at 11. Nevertheless, the government parties are also in favour of simplification, as the Committee's comments also show. We're going to vote subsidiaryly for the number 11, but emphasize that we think it's a pity that you don't want any more knowledge until you put two lines below the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5467	A small country such as Norway with a small, open economy is completely dependent on an efficient business life to finance a relatively large welfare country. It's the value of business that we in this hall reap to a great extent, when we distribute billions of dollars for more or less good purposes every year. Taxes and charges, either directly from Norwegian companies or indirectly from the people working there, account for most of the revenue side of the State budget. The business community wants, of course, to spend its time creating values instead of reporting to public authorities. There is no reason why the authorities should not want exactly the same thing, but sometimes it leads to some different target conflicts. Although the Norwegian authorities are well advanced in many areas, especially if we compare ourselves with many other comparable countries, for example. in the field of digitalisation, it is also known that the business community in Norway spends a great deal of time on tasks that deal with everything but creating values. A short time ago, the Stortinget debated another proposal from the Progress Party on simplifications in the management of aquaculture. When we worked on that matter, we got a lot of input that it is also appropriate to repeat in this case. An actor was to move a feed fleet within the same concession and location, and in that process they had to deal with seven different public bodies. We also receive a lot of similar input when it comes to public oversight, especially from travel businesses in these times. In a short time, you can get visits, or supervision, from the Labour Inspectorate, the Nav, the Tax Office, the Food Authority, the Customs Office, the Smiley System and the Adjusters, to mention someone – all with legitimate reasons for overseeing, but where there had obviously been a strength both for businesses and for the public whether these had been more coordinated. Finally, let me acknowledge the job that the government of Solberg has done in this area for the entire period of its government – the same for the last few years with the Stoltenberg government. It's this work that we're concerned about to continue, that's why we're promoting the proposal for a decision that we're making today, so we're ensuring that it's not now going to be a break in the years to come, because many of the low-hanging fruits have been taken in the last few years. We ensure that with the decision that the Storting is making today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5478	At all times, food ministers have boasted about how much they have simplified. I just wanted it to be as simple as the sum of food ministers claim it has been. I think if you ask the companies in Norway if it's been easy, it's not like you're going to get a very clear yes, now it's been easy. There are many ways to simplify. One can take a report today and go from delivering it on paper to delivering it on the ALTINN. But maybe it would've been just as good just to drop that report? What strikes me is that a person always talks about simplification, but a person never talks about anything that's wrong. So one never talks about everything that causes burdens, whether it's breaking up mileage charges, that something is taxable, something isn't, or anything else – like the EU directive that comes and imposes more reporting. One talks about what's getting easier, but one talks a little about what's going wrong. And I hope that one in the future can have a more honest communication around it, and that is the sum – that is, simplifications minus distortions – that is the right measure of how it is. One that has distorted it a little today is the Right-Representative Kårstein Eidem Løvaas. He's afraid of a target of 11 billion. kr would prevent us from simplifying by 18 billion. kr. There's nothing in this proposal that prevents us from going for both 18 billion. kr and 20 br. If you would like to do so. What I see is that the opposition here is making it a little bit simpler than the government party has suggested. They want to figure it out a little bit more. We make it simple and natural in a matter of simplification. I also want to help the representative Eidem Løvaa a little bit further with the simplification. He said that the government party would vote in favour of this subsidiary. There is only one proposal on the subject, so the Committee – and the Stortinget – can simply make it very simple and vote for a sensible proposal to have a target of reducing business administrative costs by 11 billion. kr before 2025. It's the Center Party very happy to have multiples for today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5491	The government is busy making everyday life easier for small and large job creators. We set ourselves the goal of reducing business's annual administrative costs by 10 billion. kr for the period 2017-2021. It was in addition to 15 billion. kr as a result of the simplifications carried out during the period 2011-2017. To achieve the simplification objective, measures have been implemented to save business for about 11 billion. kr annually, either through directly saved costs or saved time. The government’s objectives have been achieved one year before the deadline and the main contributions have been legislative changes, digitisation of existing procedures and new and effective methods of exploiting data. As for the previous period, we are now working on a report detailing simplification measures and burdens during the period. The proposers proposed a target of 20 p.m. reduction in administrative costs by 2025. That would have meant that we had an exact number for today's total administrative costs. There is something very uncertain about, and is why the government's last two reduction targets have been in dollars and not in percent. So I think it makes sense that the Storting has also gone over to look at the heads and not the percent. I agree that it is still important to simplify everyday life, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. Achieving the simplification target before the end of the period has given us the opportunity to start work on assessing how we can reorganise the simplification work in the future. Part of that assessment is to look at how other countries have organised their simplification work, and I think it is important to set goals. Our own experience suggests that a clear objective gives both attention and progress in a matter like this. Ideally, I wish we had had time to do a little more work related to how the simplification work can be organized, but I'm recording that there is a majority on the Stortinget who want to go straight to a goal here and now. In order to take the chairman of the committee, I will make it simple and say that, regardless of the decision of the big business, I am going to look at this with the potential for profit, and to continue working on how best to set up the simplification work that Storting is now setting a goal without fully considering how it is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5504	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5509	It is not possible to discuss simplification without going into one of the strangest structures the government has invented, on a proposal from the Left, a proposal that has been put in place and exists, and I feel that it is perhaps only the Center Party that is busy talking about, because I might not think it went entirely like one had thought. What I'm talking about is the idea of assigning some bureaucrats to prevent other bureaucrats from finding unnecessary rules, that is, the Board of Regulators. My question is: how much has the Board of Regulators contributed to simplifications in the years after it was established?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5516	I have heard the representative earlier talk about putting down government jobs outside Oslo. The job they do is valuable. They're making recordings. They come with assessments. I've met them myself. We had an interesting conversation about how things have been different during the pandemic, i.e. whether a person is able to deliver the same quality of things even if you have had much shorter deadlines. I have no concrete figures on how much they have produced, or what they have contributed to simplification, but that they are making valuable contributions to this and other aspects of their work, I am absolutely sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5523	Has Norway been a simpler country as a result of our having a rule board?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5529	This matter is about the simplification work that has been going on for years, and I will answer yes, because we have made savings that business today bears the fruits of. In many ways, there are different things that the representative himself was in. It could be doing something that was already manually, to get digital. There could be things that have been cut out, that we haven't needed. That much has happened in the simplification work, is quite obvious when we can measure how much has been done, not only this last period, but also the period before. But that doesn't mean we don't have to keep looking at this. That doesn't mean we can't get valuable input from e.g. The Board of Regulators also carries out further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5536	The Board of Governors gives yellow, red and green light in matters, and is a hearing authority that gives its opinion in matters. But one thing that you see is that the department doesn't care so much about the recordings from the Board of Governors. So this is going to be 15 more lines, but it's going to be essentially the same solution. Has the Council of State been a good example of the fact that the Council of Ministers has prevented us from doing something that was stupid and really contributed to the simplification of the legislation in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5541	Now I am not sitting with the overview of absolutely everything the legislation we have changed, or all the matters that the Board of Regulators has commented on. It's up to us whether we take the input that comes to us, or whether we choose to ignore them, but that doesn't mean that it's not important that they point it out, because having someone who can say what the consequences will be, that says what it means, has a value. Then we have to make the decision, but also with the knowledge they give us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5546	The size does not operate in a vacuum, nor does the Progress Party. We're busy getting through, and there's different ways to do it. This time we went back a little in time and found the representative proposal 174 S for 2009-2010, promoted on 18 June 2010. It was a proposal from Borghild Tenden and Trine Skei Grande to set a target of 25 pst as soon as possible. reduction in the administrative costs of business related to regulations and form fields. Then we note that the Council of State believes that it is better to express such a measure in dollars, and then we're right after it. Nevertheless, in its letter to the Committee, the Council of State warned against setting such an objective in the Stortinget. What is the reason why it was right for the Left to set such a target in 2010 in the Storting, but not in 2021?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5551	I'm by no means opposed to setting such a goal. On the contrary, I said in my post that I believe that a goal when it comes to simplification work is important. I also believe that there is a lot of reason why we have actually succeeded in the simplification work. So I'm absolutely for it. Right now we're doing it. Then I understand, just like the representative, that it can be important as big-time politicians to be in the front line, make suggestions and be on the offensive, but we're working on this. We had come up with a goal regardless of whether or not the Stortinge agreed, but we might have had a little better knowledge of what that goal was, and had a slightly better background for how the simplification work can be arranged, but that it should be a goal for the simplification work, I am absolutely in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5556	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5575	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, six lines with replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5582	The proposal involves the establishment of a new pilot programme for industry. It is promoted by representatives from the Workers' Party and the Left considers that the draft representative is well-founded and deals with an important topic. We share the commitment to green conversion and modernisation of the industry. I think it's a broad mass that does the exact same thing. In this context, it is important to mention that measures are already in place to achieve these objectives of industrial policy. The objectives of green conversion and modernisation of industry are outlined not only in the representative proposal but also in the report. St. 27 for 2016–2017, called Industry – greener, smarter and more innovative. This is a policy which the government is already pursuing and developing, and therefore a majority of the Committee considers that the proposal of the Labour Party is unnecessary. As demonstrated by the letter from the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries in this matter, the government has evaluated the instrument and is already working to improve it. This also applies to the interaction between the instruments, as addressed by the proposal. This happens, among other things: through what is called the Green Platform and the development of a common first line for the instrument. The majority of the Committee believes that it is better to continue to develop the schemes already in place rather than start up another scheme. There are already arrangements for the purpose, and it will build on it. I believe that the ambitions of the draft by the representatives are well preserved through the policies already in place. It is therefore unnecessary to set up another system. There are good intentions behind the proposal, but there can soon be a lot of bureaucracy with many schemes that meet the same need. The representative suggests that early-stage capital is not available for enterprises that want to develop, which in this context means scaling up and commercialising. We note that the proposal points out that the state should actively contribute to increasing exports and creating new business opportunities. The majority of the Committee considers that the State should not play an active role in business but provide a good framework that provides predictability and facilitates growth and more jobs. As regards taxes on wealth on working capital, I would like to point out that there is a significant obstacle to growth. The property tax is a special tax that non-resident owners do not pay. This means that Norwegian companies can be out of competition by foreign owners and therefore have to look out of the country. Removing the wealth tax on working capital will strengthen businesses and Norwegian ownership and free up capital, which can be invested in digitisation and automation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5597	Saying satisfied with the situation I think is quite dangerous, because we're not at all where we're going to be. We have a trade balance now that is reduced by 400 billion. kr from 2013. We have reduced a significant surplus to now immediately a deficit, including our oil and gas revenues. Employment: there are 200,000 people out of work. We are struggling to get into a good position in terms of future investments for industry as well. There is no doubt that there are challenges in Norwegian business. Not taking it properly, I think it's serious. I think we have enormously good industrial opportunities. We have the ability to digitise, automate, robotize and simplify processes in industry as well, but the industry is asking for several schemes in which the state is also a partner to facilitate that very type of solution. Then I am amazed that the majority so categorically rejects it, when the industrial enterprise after industrial enterprise actually points to the possibilities through such schemes. It is quite obvious that we need more of the kind of instruments to just use the fantastic industrial possibilities we have. Combining people and opportunities in the way we propose here, with an industrial pilot who can facilitate a pooling of capital, skills and new opportunities in industry, is quite essential. Then I'm amazed that the majority, as I said, is not in it. We have a lot of possibilities. We have a strong competitive advantage in an already green industry and many opportunities within hydrogen, battery and minerals. We have a co-ordinated pay structure that makes Norwegian special skills initially relatively cheap, and not least we are a highly digitised society. We have to be able to melt this together, make sure that we are able to exploit these opportunities and create new growth opportunities for these companies. This proposal is specifically derived from inspiration after discussions with the Kongsberg industry. The Kongsberg industry is very clear that these types of instruments will be of great importance for them to take advantage of the opportunities that they have and that they see in relation to their future. If we don't contribute, those opportunities will be reduced, jobs will most likely be challenged and value creation and export income will again be lost. I think it is absolutely essential that one recognizes that the state, in partnership with the private, must join in and facilitate greater exploitation of the possibilities, but I recognize that among the Right and Left people in this room, there is a strong hatred relationship with that very theme. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Labour Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5614	Then the representative of Terje Aasland addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5619	I would first like to say that SV supports the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Centre to establish a pilot program for Industry 4.0. Digitalization, robotization and automation do for the industry are enormous. For Norwegian industry, which cannot compete with cheap labour, as one has in very many other countries, it is absolutely fundamental that we are in the front line. And what's the good news is that we have a very strong environment in this area in Norway today. We have strong technology environments in many parts of the country and in Kongsberg in particular, which means that if one gives an extra boost from the state and running authorities and helps to coordinate with established programs, then one can set this in motion. In the setting, SV points to the much more extensive program that we have created in our work, which is our plan for how Norway is going to convert to a green shift, and which is going to be done in a fundamentally fair way. In that programme, there is an extensive industrial programme such as: includes the use of new digital solutions that can solve lifelong learning challenges, but also e-health, etc., where Norway has great potential for success. It is a matter which, for various reasons, has not been brought to the table of the Liaison Committee, but which is currently being discussed in the Financial Committee, which is being considered in parallel, and which will also be debated in the context of the revised National Budget. I want to refer to the suggestions that we make there. But in this round we support the Labour Party proposal and refer to the even more extensive proposals we have in the second case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5626	This is a good proposal from the Workers' Party. It is forward-looking, and it has the full support of the Centre Party. New technologies, new knowledge and theoretical-practical education are needed for professionals in permanent jobs, because the most important thing is for professionals. We need to strengthen the competence of the industry. A tab of this theme started in a meeting at Kongsberg after the pandemic came in 2020, where the challenge was the many lay-offs on Kongsberg that the companies wanted to link more closely during the period of leave and use the period of leave to strengthen the ability of employees to do an even better job when they hopefully returned to the company. It was a meeting in which the Joint Confederation, the management of the company, the rapporteur from the Senterpartiet, Kari Anne Sand, representatives of the Stortinget from the Workers' Party and the Senterpartiet and Nav took part. What was learned then was that Nav was not an appropriate organization, and one had to set up a separate program. One also hastened the fact that the intra-corporate funds, i.e. intra-corporate training, the BIO funds, were not suitable for the large enterprises, because there have been restrictions on the EEA Agreement, a maximum of 2 million. kr over a two-year period to the holding and therefore one had to find a different solution. It's essential that we try to get this into a larger frame and shape. It was granted money in a continuation of an agreement between the NHO and the LO, that is, the Joint Association, and it is very good that the government was positive about it. I would like to stress that such a pilot programme also requires a more planned, strategic, targeted, publicly-organised industrial policy. If one does not have a clear goal, it will be difficult to develop the right competences. Here we have great opportunities in digitization that we're facing. One of the last projects we've come to know is the digitised coast, with autonomous vessels, which is a project through NTNU and SINTEF, and which can really help ensure the decentralisation of a modern society by exploiting the technological possibilities. But it again requires people, it requires authorities, it requires the participation of local local government – at all, a community that is willing to bet in a new, modern way. That is a good suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5635	Industry 4.0 has opened a potential window for Norwegian industry that needs to be exploited to an even greater extent. Accelerating such a development is an absolute objective. Rather than setting up new tools, the government considers that strengthening existing and well-functioning tools and working for a better interaction between them will provide a faster and better effect. The government has a strong focus on the role of industry in the sustainable economy of the future. We have set up the Norwegian Catapult scheme to increase the investment capacity of new technologies and strengthen the skills of industry. Five catapult centres have been established so far and a follow-up evaluation of the cataple system has been launched which will reflect adjustments and further development of the scheme. The cluster programme also facilitates the development of skills technologies and production modes through cooperation in joint projects, and could also have effects beyond clusters when implementing the new mature cluster sub-programme. The Green Platform is set up to ensure simplified and comprehensive access to the business-oriented instrument and is well-suited to strengthen access to capital at an early stage of scaling and commercialising projects that can contribute to green migration. Cooperation between Innovation Norway, the Research Council, Siva and, to the extent, Enova in the Green Platform should be further developed rather than being complemented by a new overlapping instrument. The government started a comprehensive review of the industrial tool in 2018 and is now working to follow up the recommendations of the final report. Recently, Innovation Norway has been commissioned to develop a common first line for the instrument, including referral competence for the other instrument actors and a common digital input. A pilot is now working on that mission, and it will also help to facilitate simplified and comprehensive access to new and existing industrial instruments, in line with the proposal of the representatives. In the area of competence, good quality, coordination and making available of the various offers available are the most important, rather than the creation of even more new entities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5650	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5655	When I read the Council's letter to the Committee, before we started the discussion itself, I thought that now the Council of State has finally understood what we mean, because she almost honoured the proposal. She mentioned it at least in glowing order, saying that it was absolutely a well-founded proposal, and a proposal that referred to an important theme. She further pointed out that there is a need for that kind of action in business. Then we're not against the Norwegian catapult or cluster program or the Green Platform, but we think we need to do even more to succeed in escalating the opportunities that are there, strengthening the competence and interaction between competence and digital autonomous solutions, etc. Why will the Council not set up a pilot programme for Industry 4.0 to gain experience?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5662	I think that is a good intention behind this proposal, and I am concerned that we are exploiting the opportunities that lie in this development, in a better way than today. We need to do more precisely because we need to make the industry succeed even better in digitisation, in order to exploit the opportunities that are there, and in order to take market shares and be competitive in a global market. I believe that we have a very good basis in the programmes of the instrument we have today. I'm concerned that instead of adding new things all the way, we have to take advantage of the space of action and the opportunities that lie in what we already have. I believe that the Green Platform is an excellent example of something that we have now established, which is a link between the actors in an entirely new way, and which can provide great opportunities for good projects for green conversion for industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5670	I would also like to stress that the instruments that I have already mentioned and that the Council of State has mentioned are good instruments for very many, but that is not enough. And that's what the industry very clearly brings up with us -- that it needs something more. It just needs a focus on lifelong learning, on the use of digitised solutions and on autonomous solutions in industry and to increase competence for that very thing. There are then limitations in the legislation and framework of the existing programmes. Therefore, it would have been a great strength if you could gain experience with the Industry 4.0 pilot proposed here. When the Council of State says that she will develop the picture in a slightly different way than just following such an industrial programme, and the other programmes that are already in place are not sufficient, how will the Council of State ensure that industry, for example, will. will Kongsberg initially be able to find its home in the arrangements established, with the need there?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5677	We are now facing a new period in many important EU programmes, which are important to industry and which work together with the instrument. We have Horizon Europe, and we have InvestEU. The green platform is one of the things that we've just started up. The call has just finished. Now the projects are being assessed. They shall be allocated to the future. It's too early to say now how well we have succeeded with this. That's exactly what's my point, that we have a wide and solid tool today. If there's something this review shows, it's too fragmented and too small. We're going to do more, we're going to have to get better all the way, and we're going to do that through the programs and the tools we have. The green platform is one example that we've just started up with. We haven't even reaped any experience from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5684	I think we have to admit that according to what the industry itself is saying and saying very clearly, there are insufficient tools or platforms to meet the digital revolution that is now going on in the industry, in a good enough way. A lack of competence and focus on the framework around it. I find it regrettable that the government and the Minister of Industry initially, with such a positive input to such a proposal, actually chooses to stand in a position where one is not in a position to realize it, reap the experiences that lie there, which I think would have been very useful. It's about strengthening skills, strengthening opportunities. We see that Germany, for example, has a much more offensive approach to Industry 4.0 and the revolution that is going on there than we have in Norway. My question remains: would it be unthinkable for one of the other instruments to establish what is initially sought, with such an industry 4.0 pilot?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5693	Much of the point with this pilot, as I understand the proposal from the Workers' Party, is to continue working on what already exists. In terms of education and skills, it is not up to the Stortinget to produce industry-oriented education programmes — it must be done at universities and at universities. This must be a cooperation between industry and universities and higher education institutions. With the Green Platform, as I have mentioned, we're going so far with that way of thinking, the way of connecting the different actors into one platform, so that one can meet projects that are completely in the start-up phase, in the commercialisation phase, and in all the stages between. I'm more concerned with looking at what we have now, how we have to organize ourselves in order to get even more power out of it and meet the demand that exists. But it has to happen out there, for example. at the universities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5700	What has happened in this case at Kongsberg is that one has just joined the trade union movement, the management of the companies, the local council, the rapporteur, the university and the technical school. And why did one do that in that program up there? Well, because the instruments that are not appropriate. I have a lot of understanding of what the Council of State says, that you shouldn't fragment it any more. Well, then we'll take the council seriously. We have a system called Business Internal Training – 2 million. kr in the frame per holding, two years. Will the Council of State go in to change its legislation so that it becomes a larger framework so that more enterprises can use it to get to the very inside of the enterprise in consultation with e.g. universities and specialised schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5707	The question from the representative, Lundtigen, is now moving from being a systemic issue to becoming a question of budgetary increase. I agree that Business internal training is a very good measure. There are also other good measures both available and available to industry, linked to universities, which enable them to receive local training where they need them, in close cooperation. Until now, it has been managed by Diku in Bergen. There are different ways into this issue. But if the question from the representative is whether we should increase the scope of these different projects, it is a budgetary issue, which I do not take over here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5712	It didn't go on budgetary issues. It was a piece of legislation. It was the internal training code, BIO, which is today a code that the county authorities practice. It is a piece of legislation that in practice does not work for larger farms, which we have at Kongsberg, or the Saugbruksföreningen in Halden. Those companies want to change the legislation, because it may be an appropriate scheme, but then an increase in the rate of 2 million will have to be made. kr for a larger amount. My specific question is: will the Council of State change that legislation, so that the amount is 2 million. kr will be increased?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5717	I think it is very positive that the representative addresses today's legislation, the opportunities that exist today, and will develop it instead of putting new programmes or projects on the table. I will by no means deny that it may be necessary to look at adjustments, adjustments or changes to the programmes that are seen as useful to industry and industry today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5722	I noticed that the Council of State said that Industry 4.0 has opened a window, and that the way there is faster and better effect of strengthening existing instruments than establishing a new one. So said government councilor Norsk katapult, cluster programme, Innovation Norway, Research Council, SIVA, Enova and Green Platform and that Innovation Norway establishes a common first line – The Stortinget cannot establish educational programmes. I wonder if the Council of State doesn't follow what's going on out there, whether she hasn't got into what industrial pilot 4.0 at Kongsberg is, because there they build all the elements that the Council of State said, and also have their own industrial masters in cooperation with the university. But the tool doesn't talk, so you don't get the potential. Will the Council of State take another look at this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5729	One of the things we've just done to connect the tool is the Green Platform. Innovation Norway, the Research Council, SIVA and subsequently Enova have formed a common platform, one way in which to realise large-scale projects, either at the beginning or entirely at the commercialisation stage. So this is exactly what we're working on, that's the connection of the tool, so it's going to be easier to use, but also in order to be able to realize larger and maybe different projects than what these actors individually could have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5734	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5742	The Riksmekler's meeting book of the 2020 Competition Conference – The Industrial Agreement, between the Joint Confederation and the Norwegian Industry, states: ‘Requirements for specific aid to large industrial enterprises/clusters in conversion The parties to the tariffs are briefed on dialogue between the authorities and the Kongsberg industry on a pilot project for a lift of competence for this industrial cluster, and the parties endorse the intentions of this initiative.’ Note that it says ‘large industrial enterprises/clusters in conversion’. Our action packages don't hit the big industrial players. The green shift must be based on the competence that we already have, but now hundreds of people are allowed or cancelled on Kongsberg alone. Industrial environments lose competent labour force, including: as a result of the covid-19 pandemic and the oil price drop. Norway lags behind in the competition for industrial 4.0. Foreign owners consider moving jobs out of Norway on an ongoing basis. We're in a hurry to get hold of it. So one might ask, why did the parties to the Industry Agreement come forward exactly Kongsberg? Yes, because the pilot is about the conversion and development of industrial workplaces across the country. Kongsberg has close contact with and broad support from, among others. Here, Raufoss, Stord and Halden. The industry that sees the government councils, the government parties and the Progress Party clearly does not see – that the Kongsberg industry has the competence and experience to succeed in the transition to the future industry. The Council of State says that the proposal for a representative addresses an important issue and is well-founded, that industry 4.0 has opened a window of opportunity that needs to be exploited to a greater extent and that development needs to be accelerated. So the Council of State slams the window again, right in the face of the industrial environment that has the best prerequisites for putting the government's own goals into life. Governments see industrial pilot 4.0 as a new tool. It's a total short-circuit. This is the response of the Kongsberg industry to how we can get an existing, complex, fragmented instrument to play together in practice. It is the green platform in practice. And they've worked long and closely with the municipality, Nav, the parties and the education system in concreteising the pilot. It's completely pottery, it's made up of a lot of parts that depend on each other, but where the different elements sort under different parts of the tool, that don't talk to each other. Then there's no way out. Therefore, the active involvement of the government is needed, but the Council of State is not able to see, and it is quite perceptive that the Council of State is so little up-to-date on what is happening in industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5762	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5779	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5786	The representative of Moxnes promotes four proposals concerning coronants, guidelines, employment effects, purchasing systems and zero-emission ferries. They are followed by similar proposals from representatives of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV. The proposals deal with a wide range of themes. When we read all the arguments put forward by the proposers, we see that the proposals are in a state of fear that Norwegian money can benefit suppliers in the EEA area. The proposers ask, inter alia: amending the Public Acquisitions Act to discriminate between Norwegian operators and EEA actors. Norway is one of the best countries in the Korona crisis. For many in the business world, there has been strong thank-you – yet the Norwegian economy has come out better than most other countries. This is due, inter alia, to: that we have had the opportunity to implement targeted actions, such as the compensation scheme, the compensation scheme and the loan guarantee scheme. I can assure the proposer that the money is used in line with Storting's intentions, and that there are already guidelines in place to manage these schemes. As a result, several of the proposals appear to be attempting to open completely open doors. Norwegian enterprises and employment have proven to be better than we feared a year ago. This is not only due to large transfers, but also to a very good ability to convert. We must praise the companies for that. The left is a strong supporter of the EEA Agreement and mutual European cooperation. The agreement confers considerable advantages on Norwegian industry; Norwegian companies have expanded their domestic market to almost the whole of Europe. The assumption that Norway will benefit from the agreement is that countries do not treat enterprises from their own countries differently from those from other countries. This is the basic principle in the EEA. I notice that the proposers from all the red-green parties want to rock by principle. I would strongly warn against that. If we change the law on public procurement as the proposer wants, it is a breach of the EEA Agreement. Such a change will therefore have a negative impact on employment and industry in Norway. This is the employment of red-green lots. The left considers the proposals to be a serious attempt to break the commitments we have under the EEA Agreement, and will advise against them. In May 2020, the government presented a yard package with a total value of 744 million. kr. The purpose was to give the paint industry more jobs to compete over. Most of the yard package went to Norwegian shipyards, a real upgrade of the Skjold class and the corvettes and an upgrade of the research vessel of the Marine Research Institute. The marine research institute also went to acquire a new ship, and it is true that the contract went to the Netherlands. If we read the letter from the Ministry of Industry in that matter, we see that the tender has made environmental requirements for emissions and energy consumption and for the use of environmentally friendly materials. Today’s procurement regulations provide good opportunities to impose stringent environmental requirements. Once the tenders had been received, it turned out that the Dutch yard was the best on price and quality. Yes, we have to accept that the shipping nation of the Netherlands can also build ships. The EEA Agreement operates in such a way that Norwegian yards have the same access to the EEA as we do in Norway. The EEA Agreement is important for Norwegian employment and Norwegian value added. Then we have to respect that the Dutch can also build ships that meet strict Norwegian requirements, and that that would be better for those who participated in the tender.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5797	Turning these proposals into a major debate on the EEA is, I think, extremely unwise. This is primarily about using the funds available to us — in a crisis situation, on the one hand — on sensible measures, employment and to support Norwegian business, Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian jobs. Point two: Are there devices in the aid schemes used by the Norwegian State on behalf of taxpayers today, through which it would be reasonable to think? Would you like to continue using it correctly? That's point two. And point three is the public acquisitions, how we decorate them. In the case of government acquisitions and what is clarified in this, I am amazed that public procurement generally increases activity and employment in Norway. That someone is fundamentally against it is completely incomprehensible – completely incomprehensible. And that they cover themselves behind an EEA agreement is also completely incomprehensible. That the Storting asks the Government to draw up guidelines for future allocations of aid schemes, subsidies, emergency packages and the like, which ensure that the appropriations increase activity and employment in Norway — is it not quite natural to make such demands when making exceptional arrangements for setting up the activity? It would be strange if Norwegian taxpayers and Norwegian aggregates were to spend money actively to support business in the Netherlands. It's not in line with the EEA Agreement or anything like that, it's just the wrong use of taxpayers' money in an extraordinary crisis situation. The fact that the Storting does not also stand up and agree that the Storing and the Government ensure that the resources allocated to crisis packages are used according to the Stortingen’s assumption that it will increase activity and employment in Norway is completely incomprehensible – that it is not laid as a basis and has it as a guide in the use of money. And then I'm going to pick up a couple more things. We have devices on some of our tools, e.g. through Enova. For example: supporting Norwegian maritime technology, so the money goes to the shipowner. The shipowner can take the money and build the boat and do all the technology in Romania or other countries. It doesn't matter, it's no claim, it's really free use of the money as long as they go for the purposes that have been said. However, building skills and opportunities in Norwegian business must be the main device. This must be the main interest of Norwegian politicians. But when I heard the case rapporteur argue here, I was a little frightened about the position that was taken on – in my opinion – obvious proposals that are in the position. And I'm promoting with this the proposals that the Workers' Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5816	The representative of Terje Aasland then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5821	The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is essentially committed to this proposal for a representative. Just as for commercial leakage, we are concerned about subsidy leakage. Of course, the funds provided by the Stortinget to support Norwegian businesses and Norwegian jobs in the context of crisis response should be used in Norway. Mostly, that is also the case. Unfortunately, we also have an example in the near past of over 100 million. kr was sent out of the country when the Marine Research Institute contracted a new research vessel. When the Progress Party was able to negotiate this into the revised national budget last summer, our intention was, of course, that this would create activity in Norwegian shipyards and, through this, create and secure jobs here at home. Marine research is certainly in use for a new ship, but that was not the main reason on our part, for our demand was the pressing situation that was in Norwegian maritime industry. Government parties state that this was almost inevitable — that it was not possible to draw up a tender document which made it possible to maximise the chances of the work being done in Norway. I just don't think that's right. For many years now – at least in the almost eight years I have been sitting on the Stortinget – we have spent huge sums of taxpayers' money creating a green maritime sector. It's money that's created an industry that's world-leading on new green solutions, along our coast. But these new green solutions were not much sought through the Marine Research Institute when they were going to build their ship, strangely enough. The Government Parties state that if the Public Acquisitions Act is amended in such a way as to favour Norwegian operators when awarding public contracts, this would be a breach of the EEA Agreement. It is a perfectly sunny strawman in this debate. No one has mentioned it. What most of us say is that the room for action in the existing EEA Agreement must be used, and that we should not be more Catholic than the pope, nor in the future. So I hope and believe that the government and government parties have learned from these rounds we have gone in the last few months, and hopefully the decisions made by the Stortinget – also in connection with the maritime notification – will help in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5832	To the previous speaker's wish that the government party has learned: after hearing the case-speaker in this case, I do not believe that one has learned much, when one stands here and defends that the Storting has paid over a hundred million dollars to a vessel to the Marine Research Institute, as part of a package to secure activity and work in Norway, and then you can place this mission in Holland. It is not what is ‘Dutch disease’, but it is at least classical wood-shoe policy that the government is leading in this field. There is also argument about the EEA in this case, but it is a fact that very many of the ferries that we get built, which are going to contribute to both transporting people over the spring and letting them down, are being built in Turkey. It may not be the EEA Agreement which places a task in Turkey. There must be a lack of political will to place missions in Turkey, as we have seen in this matter. The central party supports the proposals made in the original Red proposal and supports the corresponding proposals in the option. I think it's important that we take this seriously, and I think it's important that we don't say good-bye to this, but it's basically about the government not understanding the value of securing jobs in Norway. Now, over the last few days, we've seen news that the border trade can now open. There's one out there pumping like a novelty, that this is good, that now we're going to move the workplaces out of the country, now the border trade can start, while 19-year-olds with football shoes are told that it's still pandemic. So there's something about the priority that the government is doing about these things, there's something about the lack of understanding that we, like the big business and the government, have to work to secure jobs in Norway, to ensure that when we spend money to solve different problems, we have to build skills, technology and development in Norway at the same time. We need to use it to create jobs - in Norway. Unfortunately, the government is missing, and I think that the debate has also appeared so far. But I hope that maybe this debate here can give hope for a new spring for those who want value creation and jobs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5845	The representative of Geir Pollestad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5850	The marine research institute's ship, which we've been inside for several rounds here, is actually a pretty illustrative thing. I thought it was a pretty bad thing. We have a paint industry that has great challenges, and so you can set up a supply in such a way that it doesn't go to the Norwegian yard industry at all. One might wonder what interests are out here and go here, but I actually don't think one of these has done a good enough job, because the option is starting to speculate in intentions that I really don't think exist in the Norwegian central government apparatus. We have had several rounds about this with purchases. When we had the previous round, with the amendment of the purchasing laws, there was a unanimous demand from the trade movement, business, the NHO, the industry – what could crawl and go – that now the state had to use the space for action that we actually have in the EEA legislation, much more offensive, for example. by imposing quality, seriousness and environmental requirements. In all of these things, the purchase arrows will point straight to Norwegian employment and Norwegian enterprises. For it is competitive in the areas of Norwegian enterprises. In the same way, a compensating high-end bets have to bets. There has also been a demand from the Storting, for several rounds, that when a bet is on bold solutions to the future, whether it is elves or what comes next, with zero emissions for speedboats, etc., and that will cost more in a transitional phase – then it will have to be compensated. When imposed by the State on that type of requirement, it must be compensated. The government doesn't want to do that either. But this leads to these offers, and that construction, disappearing to completely different types of countries and businesses than the Norwegian yard industry. The yard is one thing, but here buys one for 400 billion. kr per year in different public variants. And then we have all the state businesses as well. About state corporations: Equinor has been criticised by a whole supply industry – very often in the back room, choose to notice – because Equinor is far from using actors in Norway but goes abroad. And it weakens the supply industry in Norway, which is going to build a lot of new industries in the future. So SV also supports the two suggestions that come from Red, as well as the ones that we're in. I can report that. Because I think this is an open case. We see in other countries that they do exactly the same thing. We recently had a meeting with Equinor. They said that the Germans, Dutch and British do exactly the same thing: they make sure that investment comes to their business. They're using this as a turning point to develop their business, and so must Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5861	The coronary apathy is not only a health crisis, it has also become a disparate crisis. Where the virus hits more or less randomly, the inequality strikes crooked and brutally, also as a direct consequence of the government's own policies. While ordinary people fight hard against the system to get what they need, the millions roll into the accounts of hotel kings like Petter Stordalen, without any conditions. Then less of the crisis money is spent on what they were meant to, namely, preserving, securing or creating new jobs, and so the government also makes the unemployment crisis bigger than it would have had to be through the coronary apathy. One clear example of this is the ocean research boat – The Stortinget granted last year 110 million. kr to build a new marine research vessel. This was an action for increased activity and employment, to get people back to work. So the assignment went to a yard in the Netherlands, even though Fitjar Mechanical made a qualified tender. This is industrial policy in reverse countries. Also the world’s largest river fern, ‘Bastø Electric’ at the Moss-Horten link, went abroad – to Turkey – not to Norwegian shipyards. When the minister was confronted with the fact that money intended for the Norwegian shipyard industry ended up in the Netherlands, the Minister for Fisheries replied that there were restrictions related to the tendering rules in the EEA Agreement. So we saw that both business neutrality and EU loyalty thwarted the whole objective of funding, namely to secure Norwegian jobs. Since then, other actors have said that it would have been possible to ensure that the boat was built in Norway, also under EEA legislation, and perhaps we do not know exactly where the limits of this are. But with our proposal – if adopted – we are going to explore the so-called scope of action in the EEA Agreement at this point. Then it is uplifting that the Red-Greens, and in particular the Workers' Party, support our proposal. We can then get a clear answer: We can either use Norwegian emergency money to create activity in a crisis-capped Norwegian shipyard industry, or powerlessness in the EU is preventing us. In that case, there will be another stone to the burden that the EEA Agreement is for our ability to pursue an independent and forward-looking industrial policy. Red will revive the active industrial policy to ensure jobs and value creation in Norway, and a good start is that public support schemes benefit Norwegian industry, not the Netherlands and not Turkey. I'll take up Red's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5877	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5882	I really didn't intend to take the floor in this debate, but when I sit and listen to the rhetoric, I can't stop. Now the opposition almost sounds like we're just having a government shift here in the country, one has to make sure that every mission goes to the Norwegian yard. Then I want to remind the opposition that in 2013 Skipsrevyen went to a debate – at least they tried to do it – after Statoil placed a big order at Samsung Heavy Industries in South Korea in 2012 about the FSU for the Heidrun field. It was a 230-million contract. US dollars that then went to a yard in Korea, and not to a Norwegian yard, while the red-greens had government power. And in February 2013, it was announced that the Norwegian oil company, which was an operator in the Ivar Aasen field, chose SMEE in Singapore for a top-page contract for a value of approx. 4 B.C.E. Norwegian kroner, which were not located at Norwegian shipyards. So let's take this debate down, and let's remember that it's not possible to decide that a Norwegian yard will win a bid. It also has to do with Norwegian wage, price and cost levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5891	The fall in economic activity here at home under the pandemic has been less than in many other countries. This is due, inter alia, to: Measures aimed at Norwegian business, e.g. the compensation scheme, the compensation scheme, funds through the municipalities and the loan guarantee scheme. Together, along with good adaptability, this has led many companies to become better off than we could fear. The internal market is our most important market. Under the EEA Agreement, Norwegian enterprises have an enlarged domestic market and the condition for its functioning is that they do not treat enterprises from their own countries other than those from other EEA countries. When Norwegian enterprises access a large market, it contributes to ensuring activity, and it contributes to ensuring profitable jobs in Norway. The competition that Norwegian companies face from abroad makes them stronger, more efficient, more competitive, and that competition takes place at home, it takes place outside, and it contributes to increased productivity in our economy. It is important for the value creation in Norway and is an important part of the basis for what should be our future welfare. If we prevent international competition, we will also be able to reduce the well-being of Norway in the long term. The procurement rules shall promote efficient public acquisitions with the highest possible level of needs and quality at the lowest possible price. There is an action room in the legislation, and even today there is comprehensive guidance. DFØ, which is the government’s specialised body for public acquisitions, has guidance activities aimed at all contracting authorities, including counties and municipalities. Enterprises themselves know best about business and the markets in which they operate. The task of the authorities is to facilitate good framework conditions for maximum overall value creation in the Norwegian economy within a sustainable framework. If we dictate too much how business is going to run its business, we're likely to dampen the activity rather than increase it. We have to give business as much room for action as possible to get through the last part of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5906	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5911	Once again, we hear that the EEA Agreement is being pushed ahead, as a barricade, in relation to part of the proposals that are being addressed in this matter. I would like to ask the Council of State: in the case of proposals No. 1-3 in the vote – I assume that the Council of State is well aware of the vote – I would like to ask if there are some of the proposals that are contrary to EEA law, and in what way, in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5916	It is not without reason that the EEA Agreement is included here, because the EEA Agreement is what ensures us access to what is an enormously large and important market for us. It is clear that excluding other countries' businesses from participating in public competitions could go across the EEA Agreement. When an acquisition made by the Marine Research Institute is used as an example by several large-scale representatives, it is precisely based on: Where are the EEA regulatory boundaries? It's a room for action, and it's a complicated piece of legislation. Therefore, we also have guidance related to that space of action, but we can only extend it until we are in breach of the EEA Agreement. We should also bear in mind – as was also said from the pulpit – that most of the crisis packages given are given to Norwegian companies operating here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5925	It is difficult to understand how far an EEA Agreement extends when shown with hands and not by reference to proposals. I ask again, because it is quite essential: the proposals No. 1-3 is about setting up the use of emergency money and public acquisitions in Norway. It's not a square that we want, but it's a constant emphasis on the desire for increased activity and employment. So I ask again, and hope for a slightly clearer and clearer answer and a clarification: Is there anything in the proposals No. 1-3 which contravene the provisions of the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5930	If we look at the proposals No. 1-3 in the context of the position and in the context of what is said here, it is absolutely possible that some of this would conflict with the EEA Agreement. Specific examples are used, for example: that acquisition of the marine research institute. Of course we have to see things in context. I have responded to the proposal, it has been discussed here in Stortinget, and I have kept my post. It's a space for action, but that space for action is what it is, and then it might run counter to the EEA Agreement if we go too far in that respect. One thing is that we are in breach of the EEA Agreement, but the problem is that it will eventually weaken Norwegian business. It is our greatest advantage that we have access to that market, and if it is to work, the same rules must apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5935	I can also contribute to stressing the importance of the EEA Agreement for Norwegian business. It's not about that. In concrete terms, I ask that the three proposals which have been promoted and which are being voted down are contrary to the EEA Agreement and the space for action which is in connection with the EEA Agreement? It must be possible to answer yes or no to it and not answer a lot of cotton about what is written in total and not. I ask you, is there anything wrong with the Storting being able to adopt the proposals No. 1, 2 and 3, as provided for in the legislation of the EEA Agreement? It must be very easy to answer that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5940	It says, for example. in proposal No 1:@item: inlistbox Adjective, language ‘The government is asked to ensure that the resources allocated to crisis-packaging are used in accordance with the Stortingen’s assumption that it will increase activity and employment in Norway.’ This must mean that there is enough room for public acquisitions, such as: the acquisition by the Institute of Marine Research of holdings not held in Norway; However, if the representative considers that this means that all public acquisitions are to be allocated to Norwegian enterprises, that it is to be entered in the tenders, it would be contrary to the EEA Agreement. So here it's really a little uncertain what the representative and the proposers think, if they don't think this is in the border country in relation to the EEA Agreement. Do they just mean that we're going to continue as today, but that they're still going to criticise public tenders that might go to other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5950	The rug here is that the Stortinge granted 110 million. kr under the item ‘Actions for increased activity and employment – get people back to work’. It was a good measure, a good purpose to get a new marine research vessel. So the assignment did not go to any Norwegian shipyard, not Norwegian workers, but it ended up in the Netherlands instead. It might not have been quite in line with what was the Storting's prerequisite for this allocation. Then Red has a proposal that we want to explore the scope of action in the EEA Agreement in order to ensure, as is happening in most other EU countries, that this type of means of crisis goes for the purpose of ensuring employment, value creation and jobs in the country from which the money is granted. Why does the government disagree with proposals that are about exploring that space of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5960	So the size and government have provided crisis packages for billions of dollars, and most of the money has gone to companies based here in Norway, to jobs that are here in Norway. We can use the space of action that is, even in the case of acquisitions. Take ships as an example: we can use Norwegian as a language. We can charge in Norwegian kroner to ease the currency risk on the provider. We can demand delivery locally. We can take a number of different steps to facilitate Norwegian shipyards to win a competition, but we can still risk losing the best offer to a foreign yard. It is precisely that – the basic thing that more people should be able to do for a public acquisition – is an important part of the system that we are part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5967	In the coming years, there will be a large-scale replacement of all our ferries and also of the speedboats, and they will be converted into zero-emission ferries and zero-emission speedboats. It is good for the climate, and it can also be a new industrial venture for our yards and secure jobs and value creation along our coast. Then there is a proposal in the suspension, one that Red also promotes, that the Storting asks the government to ensure safe guidelines and other instruments that county municipalities can use to ensure increased activity in Norway when moving to zero-emission fastboats and zero-emission ferries. It is therefore important to ensure guidelines and other instruments. This is common sense. It's about ensuring that we get value creation in Norway through a transition to zero-emission fast boats and ferries. Why are the Councils against these proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5976	What I think is common sense is free trade. It is the EEA Agreement. It's giving our businesses access on a large domestic market. That's what ensures us in the long run, that's what increases value creation, and that ensures the well-being of this country. So it's like a lot of work is done on this already. We have DFØ, which guides public actors to tender. We have dealt with a maritime message, where there was a proposal in Stortingen to establish a separate competence unit for public acquisitions, which we are now working on following up. So here's a piece of legislation that we think is important to deal with. It's clear there's room for action within it, but there's also guidance here. The public service responsible for the submission of tenders must itself assess the criteria to be used in order to obtain the best possible offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5983	It's okay to believe in free trade. It's okay enough to have ideological skyscrapers, but if they're welded so tightly into the mind that you can't detect common sense, then we have a problem. When government appropriations to secure employment in Norway and activity in Norwegian soils end up in the Netherlands, even a Left State Council should see that belief in free trade may be in the way of common sense. I want to repeat my question. So in the coming years, we're going to replace the whole ferry and our fast boat fleet with a zero-emission vessel. So this can provide a lot of jobs along our coast, and we want to ask the government for safe guidelines and other tools that county municipalities can use to ensure that missions are just going to Norwegian yards, even if the council believes almost religiously in free trade. Why reject such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5990	The future replacement of the fleet will create activity in Norwegian shipyards, not because we require it to be done in Norwegian shipyards, but because Norwegian shipyards are very good at climate-friendly solutions, because Norwegian shipyards are in the top of the world, and because Norwegian shipyards themselves see that they must be competitive in a global market and deliver good offers. That's why they're going to win the competition. This does not mean that all ships and boats will be built in Norway. This does not mean that all parts of a boat are going to be built in Norway. We can imagine the hull being built one place, and the climate-friendly technology coming from Norwegian suppliers. Here it is a global market. I love free trade. I think it's one of the most important bases on which our business is based, and we have to keep it. Also, when things we stumble by sometimes appear, we have to go back and see that it is to our advantage that we have the system we have, because it ensures us have a big market and not a tiny little one.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e5997	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e6004	Based on the debate that has taken place, one would believe that those who vote in favour of the proposals raised in this matter are, in principle, in favour of the EEA Agreement. I just want to stress that I am fully committed to the EEA Agreement. I am in favour of free trade, but also trade with some thoughts for consequences, it is a little essential. Take the research ship ‘Ribbent for green technology’ and ‘gets diesel mechanical propulsion. Started as a Rolls Royce and ended up as Lada", says Technical Weekly in March. Why was no demand made for as much climate-friendly progress as possible and to use the solutions that perhaps Norwegian competence can deliver to a greater extent than what is the traditional, completely ordinary shelf product, provided by Dutch companies. It's the kind of device that says that someone wants to do here. It is a bit important that a particular in times of crisis is able to build frameworks, and that, when developing technology and new opportunities for Norwegian industry – not least in the maritime sector – a framework is built that also favours Norwegian competence and Norwegian enterprises, and does not disqualify them. For Norwegian enterprises, it is good if high climate and environmental requirements are set, but they may not be as good as others in putting together a series-produced shelf product. That's what it's all about. When one covers himself behind the fact that there is no room for action in the EEA Agreement to adopt it, I myself become skeptical, but there is only word and rhetoric in this context. Of course, it is fully possible to adopt the proposals that lie here, which should have been an important signal of how the Storting feels and perceives that one should deal with that kind of thing in the course of the process. On the basis of the debate that has now taken place, I would at least challenge the Progress Party, which is in principle in favour of the proposal, to vote in favour. Intentions can be good to have, but it can also be good to have a small management course, or a small course, for the government in terms of the perception that has emerged through this debate, that here it is just to put your hands on your back and not do anything – based on what is the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e6011	As the representative of Aasland chooses to continue the rhetoric in the same track, I use the opportunity to ask why not the Workers' Party, which is in favour of active state ownership, instructed Statoil in 2012–2013 to place contracts in the billion-class classes of Norwegian yards and Norwegian workshops in the middle of the financial crisis, to ensure Norwegian employment and Norwegian value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e6016	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e6021	I've only spoken once before.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e6026	Then you get three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e6032	So great, I'm probably not going to spend the time, I'm going to be very short. I haven't arranged for us to instruct the companies. I haven't said that in any way. I have said that we should build a framework around the taxpayers' money that we use to support Norwegian business through crisis measures and through public acquisitions. That's what this is about. With regard to the situation that was on the Norwegian base, as Statoil was exposed for a certain time, where one outsourced large tasks, we should have tightened the impact significantly for the entire Norwegian base on how one could announce the competition, and also collect the risk relief through the tax system. It might have been done that time, but it's changed. Statoil, now Equinor, has understood that what they did then, is better to go to the Norwegian yard and Norwegian competence to use it in developing their products.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e6041	It was within 1 minute. And it was true that the representative Aasland had had the word twice before. There was a capable secretary next to here who knew it. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-02.ana.ud52e6058	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
