ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e28	The representative, Mr Kristjánsson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e33	On behalf of the representatives of Bjørn Moxnes, Marie Snee Martinussen and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to extend the crisis arrangements for workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e38	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e54	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Tina Bru.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e63	Many families around Norway are now entering Christmas with an insecurity they have never known before. Power prices are still record high, and for many people in very common homes and homes, this could mean an extra bill of several thousand dollars a month this winter. For others, those who are extra vulnerable and dependent on housing or social assistance, it goes without saying that this situation is intolerable. Therefore, as early as October, the Right promoted a proposal to increase housing support and social assistance to help this group. The size was behind this, and the government has followed up. That's good. But since then the situation has deteriorated. The winter seems to be getting even tougher for more. The government has said that they are working with new measures, yet they are presenting nothing new today. Except for the 100 000 who qualify for housing support, and a loan to students of NOK 3000, solutions are still lacking for all those who are currently struggling with electricity bills, e.g. the vast majority of families with children, pensioners and sociable incomes, who are unable to bear this shock bill. That's why the Right proposed a solution last week that will hit most, but still be focused on those who need it the most. The government has now spent a month and a half working on solutions. The solution is still more housing support, but for everyone else it's still in blue, so my question is, what kind of security can the Prime Minister give these families here today before Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e72	I share the representative's involvement in this situation. It is strong to hear stories from families, families with children, pensioners and students who experience the high power prices that are simply intervening in their lives – they worry, they can sit on cold rooms. It makes a strong impression. Therefore, the government has also been concerned about this from the acquisition. We entered with our additional number and increased the electricity charge cut, in addition to the government of the representative Bru. That means it's going to be a henimot 50 pst. reduction in the electricity charge in January, February and March. We increased housing support – a broad consensus here in Stortinget and protected against social support – and in our additional number we have also increased Enova’s payments to support households. So we've been working on finding good solutions that now can really hit in an extraordinary situation. That is why we have today put forward two schemes that we know, which can be started quickly – before Christmas, if the Storting will. There is once again an increase in housing aid, which is to hit those most affected. There is also a loan and grant scheme that provides relief for the students, who also experience that they lose jobs because of the coronary situation. We also need to have a dialogue with the electricity companies to look at the possibilities for deferral of payment. But a broad solution isn't in blue, it'll come in a very short time. It is intended to take the household, the follow-up to the decision of the Storting, the ones who are struggling. We're going to have a broad solution that will ensure that the state, which takes extraordinary incomes in this power crisis, gives back money to households, which have extraordinary challenges, but that system must be solid. So we haven't had this situation for 25 years, so we need to develop a system that can work and work quickly, and get started in December/January. Within hours or a day or two, this arrangement is in place. It's going to hit broadly, it's going to meet the households, and it's going to help the households.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e83	It's nice to hear that the government again sends signals that arrangements are right around the corner, but we've heard that for quite a long time, so we'll probably just keep waiting in suspense. I also hope that this is a scheme that will hit more than just housing beneficiaries, for example, because there are several people who need help now, and it would be nice if the Prime Minister could say something about the size of such a scheme. For example, the solution you're presenting today costs 600 million. kr, but when the state and municipalities around the country earn a two-digit billion on the high electricity bills, money from ordinary households, does the Prime Minister think it is right and fair that the state should only use a fraction of it to compensate the same households? Or is it now a powerful package, with large amounts, that helps those who need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e90	No, it's not fair for the state not to compensate for it. That's an extraordinary situation. We haven't had such a situation in the 25 years we've had the Nordic power market, and the state gets high revenues. That is why it will be a powerful effort, and it will be about billions. But it has to hit, and in the same way as in the Korona crisis, where we had to make arrangements – I think the government of the representative Bru erfahrte – this is compensation schemes that you don't have initially, so which channel to use. We're almost in the measure of it. It's going to be about getting into the electricity bills of people, of households, and adding a good compensation that makes you over a certain level, when we have high electricity prices, you get compensated. But I want it to hit, and it has to be solid and repulsive. Then we use the hours needed to talk to the parts of the apparatus that are going to deliver this, that are going to be responsible for doing that, and it's almost there. Then there are the familiar arrangements we know: housing support, students getting help – and a powerful package, which is right around the corner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e95	There will be follow-up questions – Tina Bru.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e100	Then I guess there's going to be a new package, and I have a great deal of understanding that finding new arrangements can be difficult. We, when we were in government, also had good experience with it. We had to make arrangements in just a few days to solve challenges around the pandemic. That's why I think it's a little weird, because the government's been on it for so long. This is not a situation that arose this week, you know this for quite some time. I think it's a little strange that this has not been the subject of e.g. The budget negotiations with SV in Stortinget, because we know there is a need for money. Now, when the prime minister says it's going to be a billion-dollar package, the question is how this is going to be financed, because I guess you have to have money from somewhere to get it to. So I wonder, is the Prime Minister open to simply re-prioritizing on his own budget? For example, you want to do this. reprioritising the flat cut in the electricity charge that does not hit well enough now, to a powerful package? Do you want to give priority to using the proceeds from Statkraft to meet those who have paid for the high yield Statkraft now has, or are you going to use more oil money to get this done?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e105	I'll come back to this. The point is that the state and the municipalities get large revenues from these high prices. This is when we have to look at some kind of exchange relationship with households that pay for very high electricity prices. As I said, it's extraordinary. We could imagine that we had this situation five years ago, seven years ago, twelve years ago, and then we're going to apply the system we have. No, we have this extraordinary situation now. Then we have to make an exceptional measure for an exceptional situation. But this government sees ordinary people. It sees that ordinary people who are outside housing support schemes, who are outside student schemes, are now being taken so hard that there is a great deal of concern in their everyday lives. We're going to reach them, and we're going to reach them in a way that's credible, and that's helping them out. It would have been nice if we could present this on Tuesday, or on Wednesday. We're going to present it in a very short time, quality assured, so we're sure it's going to work out well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e112	Tina Bru – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e117	I think – given the uncertainty people feel now – that it is a little poor comfort to hear that the system is right around the corner. At least I think people should like to hear a little bit about how it's actually going to be arranged, because there's different ways to do this. This could be done, for example, by: are about discounting a power bill. It may also be that the government is working on a solution that you won't benefit from until you get the tax bill in June. In that case, it won't be enough now, because you might need the money now. At the very least, you need to be sure that the money comes soon, and how much is the amount. Once again, I almost have to ask: can the Prime Minister share some of the work he is doing in government, what kind of concrete solutions they are actually looking at, whether that solution will mean that people can expect money quickly, or at least get security when the money comes and in what way they come?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e123	I can confirm that this is coming quickly. It will be money related to the electricity bill you pay – not through the tax. Such schemes often have to be targeted. Now they have to be broadly constructed, for all households are taken by this. It can often be with such arrangements that someone who might not have been inside comes inside, and that there was someone you would have inside, coming outside. That's why we have to work on doing this in my opinion, because it hits all households. What is the instrument for ordinary people today is that they pay electricity bills to the network company and its electricity company, and it's a good channel to go in and do it through. So I confirm: this is not something to wait for until June. The housing support and these payments, if the Stortinget and the government get a good cooperation, can be out before Christmas – and this money should be out just over New Year’s. That's the goal, and I think such a system can get in place. So we're in the final phase of being able to prepare it, and then it'll be a powerful package that hits the households and makes everyday life a little less difficult for ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e130	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e135	It is good that it turns out that it is possible to get money out to a part of those who need it the most, already before Christmas. We are pleased that this is in line with what SV strongly wanted. I want to ask a question related to it. Firstly, does the government also evaluate other targeted schemes? The students are mentioned. Clearly, we are concerned about the many people who have poor advice but who are just above housing support levels. Earlier in the fall, SV promoted a proposal to create a targeted scheme for them, which was voted down in Stortinget. Is that what the government is assessing? And in this regard, is the Prime Minister sure that the sum of the government now up to, $1,500 a month, is enough to meet the electricity costs of the housing beneficiaries?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e140	I would like to say that this has to be added to what was given on housing support earlier this autumn. This is also, as the Minister of State said today, a support that is now announced for months to come, so we believe it will be absolutely certain. Those who receive housing support are also often electricity customers, so the scheme I am now sketching, which we come with when it comes to electricity billing, will also apply to them. In the case of students, students who have the electricity bill included in the rental contract may be protected if there is a fixed contract, but otherwise there are many students on the furniture and in apartments who pay high electricity bills. They will now receive support through loans and scholarships, increase in the scholarship, and they will benefit from the scheme we are now designing. And then we'll look at the whole thing together. We have to follow this situation on an ongoing basis, but I'm concerned that the arrangement we're making now is going to be powerful, clear, help ordinary people, mean something for the bills they're going to pay, and facilitate the situation that's now arisen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e149	Sofie Marhaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e154	11 B.C.E. The estimate for Energy Norway is the state's share of increased dividends, rent taxes and VAT as a result of the sky-high electricity prices. Today we're told that the government spends $500 million. kr to increase housing and social assistance to help people pay electricity bills. At the same time, there's a bunch of people with normal and low incomes who don't get anything. Therefore, I wonder if the Prime Minister can guarantee that the package that comes meets everyone who needs help with the power bill, and that it comes before Christmas. I also wonder if it will be the size of the increased income that the state receives because it milks Norwegian households at a time of sky-high electricity prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e159	It is such that the country's income from electricity goes up and down over the years. In 2020, when electricity prices were low, the government had low revenues. Now they're very tall. Now they're extraordinarily high, and therefore the government will do what it does. Yes – I have to be allowed to say that – it's going to hit a bunch of people. We believe that it should meet all those who are current customers today because everyone is affected. Then there'll be a goal in addition to the arrangements I've now outlined, and it's left to say that the cost of housing support and students, which is several hundred million dollars, is one part of this, but the bet we're talking about now is a billion bet, that is, several billion dollars. It's not ear to ear to the income of the state, they're going to go up and down, but it's going to be a powerful package that hits into the everyday life of the power customers, so we're going to help those who are the hardest hit – that's what the Storting has decided – but we also want to help out wider than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e166	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e171	Now the prime minister goes very far in saying that a solution is just around the corner. Then it's tempting to say that it's taken a long time, but it would actually be an unfair criticism, because the government has already come up with a number of different schemes that have cost a terrible amount of money. One has already used 3 billion. kr on an unfocused flat cut on the electricity charge, which hardly anyone will notice. And then you have an output of 2.3 billion. kr in exchange from Statkraft and not spent it on this at all, but on completely different things, simply to start new, expensive universal welfare schemes. Had rather spent the money on supporting all households that consume less than 1.2 million. NOK, each of them could get NOK 4500. It would be a highlight. But we have to take the positive here, and it's that one goes a long way in saying that a system is on its way, and that, as far as I understand the prime minister, she's going to meet broad teams that actually have the challenges of paying, not least the many who are now getting the permit notice in a tough time before Christmas. So the question is simple: can the Prime Minister now guarantee that people get back the security they now need before Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e178	People get safe before Christmas. The hope is that those who receive housing support can get money before Christmas. What about the students and payments – now the higher minister of research and education is sitting here: it also comes quickly. The security before Christmas in view of the arrangement I am sketching will come. Then you have the security of what lies ahead. But I want to say one thing: we have also made a government budget for ordinary people, which means that people get more of the tax if you have ordinary and lower incomes – unlike the government that Rotevatn put in. People will learn that some important welfare services, including: children's home and SFO are becoming more reasonable. So it's also part of the total economy of people: a budget that's designed to remedy it -- in addition to the arrangements we've made over the fall. Lower electricity charges in January, February and March and twice the amount of the housing allowance – all these things need to be seen in the context. And then there's a broad system that's now being developed for the first time, that's going to hit the power customers in a way that relieves this exceptionally difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e185	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e191	The country is in the midst of a power crisis and a coronary crisis. We have a totally debilitated government – in a crisis that has major consequences for both households and business. The top of the tap bag was when we saw that the oil and energy minister went to the United States to talk about sea wind in the middle of the situation we're in. It was so unmusical that it was hard to understand that it would work. I am pleased that the Minister of Oil and Energy has returned, but this is a situation that has been solved throughout the autumn. A supplement to the State budget was presented with a few ears in tax cuts, which do not solve the crisis. One spent weeks negotiating with the Socialist Left Party and came out with nothing or nothing to solve the crisis. The Party of Progress has tried throughout the harvest to assist in the adoption of measures. We have proposed to remove VAT and electricity charges for the current year and next year, but we were voted down. We have proposed paying 4000 kroner to all households, just to get rid of the red tape that takes time to pay out the money, but we were voted down. Our point was to get the money out before Christmas. We have proposed to deal urgently with proposals to take control of the foreign tables, but have been downgraded. Now we have another proposal for a solution: the concessions to Statnett for the new foreign tables of Germany and the United Kingdom have a §12. «The Ministry of Oil and Energy reserves the right to modify the terms of the concession during the concession period if the general interest so requires.» Will the government get out of action and take control of the export of electricity, which we have the opportunity to do, and ensure that Norwegian electricity customers do not pay the price of a faulty and totally irresponsible climate policy in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e205	I note that all the proposals of the Advance Party have been voted down. It happens here in this room, so I don't want to comment on it any more, I just want to repeat that it's wrong, the picture the representative gives of that we've been passive to a power crisis. So we went into increased housing support, one of the first things was extraordinary payments to housing beneficiaries. We cut the electricity charge in January, February and March, overall – there is a reduction of 50 pst. Then we suggest increasing housing support in December and through winter to help those who need it the most. I'm going to give you 100 million. more to the municipalities in order to facilitate increased social assistance. We'll give NOK 3000 extra in loans and scholarships to students with electricity costs. We call the power companies to look at the possible suspension of payment, that is to distribute bills over the year, and there will be a new powerful package for households. So let me just put it very clearly in place. Norway's energy exchange with the countries around us has served us well. It has given us certainty – that at times when we have had dry years and low coverage in the magazines, we have been able to exchange. It's an advanced system that can give us the opportunity to import force at night and export by day. This is a system Norway is connected to, and has served us very well. Now there is an extraordinary situation that is not about lack of electricity, but that it is a price situation that affects the whole of Europe linked to a major energy change taking place in Europe. There is nothing Norway can skip, and Norway should not skip. This connection gives us security – that we have links to Sweden, Russia, Denmark and European countries. It is safe for Norway. But when the extraordinary situation arises, we also put in extraordinary measures to relieve the power customers in such a way that they get through a heavy winter, and don't get so high expenses that it really goes on health and the economy loose.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e214	Many analysts say that this is a crisis that can persist for many years, and I notice that you have not intended to take control of the cables. But for many, this power crisis is dramatic. I get e-mails from the desperate people who sit at home in 12-14 degrees. They're sitting with plaster, they're putting dunes and carpets in the windows to keep the cold out. Students sit on the home exam with bubble jacket and thick jerseys. Linda can't afford to celebrate Christmas, bake cake – she's turned off refrigerators and freezers. There are desperate mothers who are afraid that they can't afford to pay Christmas gifts and buy Christmas food for the family. Power prices are destroying the economy to many families and lonely in Norway. The government has now had all the autumn, and so what we've been getting so far is increased housing support – which goes to less than 100,000 of the country's 2.5 million households – and loans and scholarships to students. Would the Prime Minister apologize to all those who are now freezing and desperate because the government has not come with any help this fall?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e221	I want to tell them – and I get the same e-mails, perhaps some of the same as the representative Listhaug and many others – that the situation makes a deep impression on me and on the government. It's taking us up, so we're working on finding the system that can hit power customers wide. That's why I can only repeat: there's a system that's going to rescue the power customers; the extraordinary situation that has now arisen with these prices, which gives the state income, makes it possible to give a handshake back to the power customers. It will relieve the situation; it will not solve the 100 pst. for all, but it will give a substantial handshake to families. I don't want to talk down the housing support, which is important for particularly vulnerable groups, nor talk down the support for the students, but they're power customers, and they're going to get this handshake, which is going to be effective and give them security against Christmas and payments right over New Year's.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e228	There will be follow-up questions - Sylvi Listhaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e233	It's not just the households this is dramatic for. Businessmen are also hit hard. Riis Gartnery at Kjeller produces 1 million flowerpots per year. They've soon been through two years of corona, lack of labour, and now they're experiencing a power crisis at the top of this. Tove writes to me that she is unwell by the concerns. Her energy costs could increase by 2 million. kr; she has budgeted 900000 kroner. And as if this is not enough, the Arbeiderparti-Centre-Registration also sends an extra bill to Tove and other gardeners: 270 000 kroner is for her annual CO 2 tax. This is an industry that is totally dependent on CO 2 to grow and increase crops. Why does the government put its feet under this kind of industry, and will the government come up with measures aimed at industries that are hard hit by the power crisis as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e246	Over time, it has been an advantage for Norwegian industry and industry that we have consistently had lower energy prices than the countries around us. We have secure access to renewable energy, we have a power situation that allows our business both to expand and to do so with low emissions. We want to go back there. An important part of the current crisis must also be to look at how we can increase the production of renewable energy in Norway. We have the opportunity to do that. It is not possible to follow the recipe of the representative, Mr Listhaug, who does not want wind from land, does not want wind from the sea. Then this doesn't go up. We must have a policy that provides us with more power in orderly forms from land, and a large-scale effort on sea winds. We also have to look at how we can make more use of our hydropower. Then, over time, we can secure our business life, so that they are sure to have access to renewable energy. This is a crisis that hits Europe now. We have measures we have to take now, we want an energy commission that looks through this completely, so that we can achieve more renewable power in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e251	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e256	The advance party is against wind power on land because it rages Norwegian nature, unless the majority of the population in the referendum say yes to it. The Progress Party has also made proposals to develop more hydropower, not least to look at sheltered watercourses and how they can be exploited. The Progress Party used the first weeks we were in the government to remove the inheritance fee, or the ‘tax on death’. The working party and the Centerpartie have spent their time increasing fuel taxes – petrol and diesel are already high prices – increasing car taxes, increasing the proportion of sick people by 600 million. kr. This comes at the top of record electricity prices that the government does not handle, increased food prices and the increasing interest rate we have in the country. The economy of the people most is being attacked by all teams, and the state treasury is being filled in: 30 billion. kr only on electricity. Was it this Workers' Party and the Center Party that meant in the election campaign – do ordinary people have their turn to pay record high taxes and taxes into the state treasury?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e263	I have a completely different reading of the situation for ordinary people. Thus, two out of three receive equal or lower taxes and lower taxes compared to the time spent by the government representative Listhaug. There will be increased appropriations for hospitals; there will be increased appropriations for the municipalities, which will ensure the well-being of people near where they live. We stop the privatisation in health care, which means that you need to have a good economy to ensure you have safe health care. Now they get the tax cuts with lower and medium incomes. We who are over have to pay something more. That's fair. This makes Norway more productive, more participatory, providing opportunities for more people to live a life where they also control their own economy. When we're so concerned about having a proper measure on the current, it's to follow up the decision here in the Storting last week. We're going to hit those that are hit hardest, but there are many; there are households around Norway that now have high electricity costs. We're going to reach them with a good order. It's a different recipe than the Progress Party – I can sign it on – but it's going to be accurate, and it's going to give people security.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e270	Roy Steffensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e276	The representative of Listhaug mentioned the US trip to the Minister for Oil and Energy. I'm going to follow it a little bit, because the Minister of Industry also went to the United States. So it's in a situation where we have record power prices and people are worried about whether they can pay their bills. At the same time as business and especially the food industry experience a race of cancellations, both the Minister for Oil and Energy and the Minister for Industry choose to travel to the United States instead of managing crises here at home. The new government has wavered in the management of these crises from day one. So I have to ask, were the trips to the United States something that the prime minister asked the state councils to do, or was it that the journeys were interrupted, something the prime minister asked them to do? Or is this something they've come up with on their own? In any case, I would very much like an assessment by the Prime Minister of whether it was wise for the Councils to go to the United States while they should be here and run crisis management instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e283	Yeah, I asked them to leave. I would do it again. They are out there representing Norway, promoting our trade interests, our long-term political interests and trade interests in securing the country both incomes, jobs and well-being. Yes, I asked them to come back when we saw the consequences of the omicron variant and the need for tightening that hit parts of the business. The oil and energy minister also came back because of the infection situation, which meant that it was necessary to have political leadership back in the Oil and Energy Department. But it's not that when a Council of State is travelling, the work of the Council of State is not done. The phone is working, the departments are working, the government is working, and we've been working on high gear with the system that's now coming with power, with the Minister of Oil and Energy at the head. It is she who has the front and developed, with the support of the members of the government. If we're going to say that we're going to have every man at home when there's a difficult situation, I don't think we're caring for Norwegian interests, with such an extroverted country as we are. We can totally handle it this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e292	Roy Steffensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e297	Despite the fact that the phones are working, they have at least chosen to come back. That's good. From NTB we can read that the Minister of Industry will meet the social partners to discuss new measures for those affected by the Prime Minister at the press conference yesterday. Last November, Støre said: ‘But it surprises me that the government has not prepared a clearer arrangement when they go out with new tightening...’ About the same time, the current Minister of Finance, Slagsvold Vedum, said: ‘We need a crisis plan, not clumsy crisis packages.’ Now it looks as if the government has not prepared a clearer arrangement, and that they are also working with patchy crisis packages in front of a crisis plan. The Progress Party expects that some of these now being discussed in these cluster crisis packages are measures that do not shut down business, but rather help to keep the wheels going. We have to do everything in our power to avoid bankruptcies and redundancies, and the Progress Party hopes that we can find out if the pay support scheme is something that is now on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e314	I have a completely different experience of what has been played out now. We have taken intervention to reduce the infection. We haven't shut down. There is due emphasis on the absence of closure, but contact mitigation measures. So it's still possible to have activities throughout the economy. We were concerned that when such measures are taken, there must be compensatory measures for people and for business. I respect the fact that the former Minister of Finance needed time to develop a compensation scheme for business. Our criticism last autumn was that there were different compensation schemes, and when the need came back, one did not have one up and stand up. We use the one that was closed in the harvest, and we put it into effect immediately, in November and December. Now we know that there's a system there, you know it -- some adjustments in the rates, and then it's there. We've reactivated the cultural system. We have reactivated and strengthened the support that goes through the municipalities. And the Minister of Industry is going to have conversations with the parties about the arrangement of it. Whether wage subsidies can become an element of the arrangements, we have dialogue with the parties about. But there are arrangements in place to protect both businesses and people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e323	Lars Haltbrecken – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e328	Explosive power prices worry a lot. On 1 January, the government came up with a new network lease that could come at the top of the exploding power prices. The proposed scheme could be an extra cost for many and also an obstacle to investing in energy efficiency and self-production of electricity. The system creates uncertainty, and we don't know exactly how it will affect individuals. This is something that we in SV believe you have to wait to introduce until you have a better overview of the consequences of it, and a better arrangement on that system. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he will take care to suspend the new network lease system and provide a better system, and not give people a new power shock in January.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e333	We don't intend to postpone that arrangement. We believe that there is a system that can encourage you to use electricity over the clock in a way that can also work for energy savings. It is important that the measures we now take, where we relieve people of the cost, and there is, as I said, a powerful package, continue to maintain people's will and ability to use electricity over the course of the day in a way that takes advantage of the times when prices are low. We haven't considered postponing it. We believe that it is a system that can come into force from January.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e338	Sofie Marhaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e343	I am returning to this broad package that comes, because from 1 January there will also be a separate package. There will be an increase in the rental network as the large electricity company Elvia says will be so large that it will zero the cut-outs in the electricity charge. There's a running-time charge on electricity, which the asker before I just referred to, and the capacity of the North Sea Link will double. The locks to the European electricity market will be opened. Therefore, I wonder if the Prime Minister can guarantee that the broad package that is coming will not be destroyed by the other crap package that comes to ordinary people from 1 January – in the form of a rush-time charge on electricity, increased network rental and increased exports?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e350	The President will propose that we avoid the word 'third'.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e356	Then I won't repeat it. The system should make it less burdensome and more manageable to have the high current bills we have now. It's going to make it better for households to deal with the situation that in Norway we're essentially firing our houses with electricity, and that ordinary households are going to get relief in the situation that's now with the high electricity costs. It is difficult today to say what the consequences are on the prices of one and the other foreign connections. No new cables shall be built during this period; this government has decided. We're going to have official control over the cables we have abroad. We're tied up with the countries around us; it's wise for Norway over time. Then we're going to make sure that the power customers come out of this extraordinary situation with a handshake from the community that makes it a better economy in their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e363	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e368	It was a heavy night yesterday when new invasive measures were introduced. I think the government got some funny criticism from the civilians yesterday about this with infection protection. There was too much game and criticism for the sake of criticism and shadows also for what we believe there is reason to ask the government some critical questions, namely the arrangement for financial support measures. Now a compensation scheme is reintroduced that is a very good reason to look critically at. The pandemic became a disparity crisis during the last government because a policy was pursued that gave too much money to them at the top of the Norwegian community, at the same time as it went well for many of them, while workers paid the price of the crisis. What many have pointed out is that the compensation scheme just ended up allocating too much to the large and the rich, as well as having some other demanding aspects, namely that it actually distributes aid to enterprises that are then restricting their activity. This is why, among other things: The LO has been very clear that they preferred a pay-as-you-go scheme, a scheme that pays instead to keep people working. Now the ghost of unemployment is back for many, not least our hotel and restaurant workers, who have had an incredible number of tough rounds through the pandemic, and who are now again afraid of their jobs. Then our question is: why not, as the trade union movement has asked, wage support instead of compensation scheme – or at least in addition to compensation scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e375	I agree that the compensation schemes as they were got a rash that was not lucky. I think SV and the Workers' Party agreed that, for example. the requirement not to have dividends, high bonuses, high wage increases, etc. should enter into the agreement with the beneficiaries. It was voted down here in Stortinget. What we've been busy about now is having a system that comes into force quickly. Last week we had not imagined that we should have national intervention measures. It is the omicron variant that has given us an image that requires these measures now – that is what, according to Bjørn Guldvog, is a game changer in this situation. Then it was right to resort to the system that is there, that comes up quickly and stands – it is known. There are changes in the case of trades, etc., which will make better sense in the situation we are today. Then I'm busy with the arrangements we have, and that we're now using, for example. for cultural life. Cultural life is among the most affected. There we have revived the guarantee scheme they have, which they can get for the next six months – it will last until the summer. Cultural life is concerned that, in addition, an element called incentive schemes should be considered. that you can have events – not with the full audience, but that you can still do. These are the types of recordings we now need to make, and the state councils in the various fields will have contact with their different sectors to listen to it, including in contact with the major organisations – Work, LO and NHO. Then we'll listen to their input into this with salary subsidies. Nor is it something that we can just put into a system overnight, so we need to have dialogue about and see how this can be done. But I fully agree with the representative Lysbakken that now that we have measures – we are hoping that these are measures that should not last too long – it is important to avoid people getting laid off and losing their jobs. We have also decided to extend the day-to-day pay legislation out of January, in order to provide safety for workers in the situation that has now arisen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e386	The last is good, both that and the arrangements for freelancers were something that was missing last night, but I then perceive that the government has told me that both parts should be continued. That's good. I think it is important to send a signal that, as long as the crisis lasts, the necessary measures will also be taken for them. It is good if the government engages in dialogue with the parties, but I would like the government to have a clearer positive attitude towards wage support and salary subsidies now, because it is possible to roll out a system for it quickly. It's not least a very strong wish for it from LO. Can the Prime Minister give a signal as to whether there is something that has been assessed or assessed by the government and which can be discussed in connection with the fact that the Storting must find solutions around the compensation scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e395	I absolutely believe that there is something we can discuss, and I know that as we meet here now, the Minister of Industry meets the parties. But my point is that when we decided on measures that, in total, make them important to some businesses, it was important to get schemes up quickly. Then we could not walk about something that had to be investigated and assessed, and that was not ready to be packed. But, as I said, in the various areas – whether it's public transport, culture, travel, outdoors, the restaurant industry or the rest of the world – we have active contact with the parties to listen them out. And then we'll see if it's quick to make changes that take care of some of their interests. I feel that at both LO and NHO there is a desire to twist the mechanisms towards maintaining competence. This is not a type of crisis where we're supposed to be afraid to lock up competences. Rather, there is a greater risk of loss of competence out of an industry that you hope to be able to get back into full-time business in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e402	It opens for follow-up questions – Audun Lighthouse.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e407	We think it would have been possible to roll out a salary subsidy scheme immediately, but it is good that the government will assess it. Once the government has made a proposal to reintroduce a variant of the compensation scheme, the question is where the important social requirements that SV and the Workers' Party together called for when we were in opposition. We know, for example. that, despite the fact that the right-hand government repeatedly assured that the dividend ban was irrelevant, because no one was going to make any dividends, it turned out that large sums were taken out in dividends – contrary to what the previous government said. For us – and this I think I have a lot of people around the country with me on, not least all those who have paid the highest price for the crisis through layoffs and unemployment – it is incredibly important that the Right's faults in crisis management are not copied. So why has the government not put forward in this round a proposal for a dividend ban in the compensation scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e414	It is because there is a system in place for measures to last four weeks. So it's the last couple of weeks of this year and the next two weeks of the new year. But it's clearly a theme we're going to come back to when we get over New Year, if it's worth extending the arrangements and making adjustments in them. Then we'll take it up and light it up too fully. Our attitudes are the same as they were then.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e419	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e424	We are now in a situation where the Stortinget, in the hydroelectric power country of Norway, which is therefore a source of eternal renewable energy, has to grant emergency aid to help people with electricity bills. In a country where electricity production costs range from 5 to 20 centimeters per kilowatt hour, people now pay up to 5 centimeters per kilowatt hour. The reason should not be surprising: the other parties have built Norway more and more closely into a European electricity market with much higher energy prices than we have had in Norway, and for each new foreign table being built, higher European electricity prices are increasingly infecting Norwegian electricity prices. In October, the North Sea Link foreign table was opened. Exports through the cable have gone too far while Norway has extreme prices and declining filling levels in the magazines. Up towards 40 pst. of Norwegian net exports of electricity have passed through North Sea Link until now, and so far the cable is only going for half capacity – until Christmas it will go for full capacity. Red believes that the electricity market must be regulated. The power to ensure light and heat in houses and homes, and not least in industry, is too important for a commercial market to be abandoned. Political will is needed for governance and regulation. We know this willingness that historically has been in the Workers' Party, but so far, the Minister of Energy has rejected any idea of regulating the exports of electricity out of the country. Are sizes of the same opinion? Is it inconceivable for the Workers' Party to regulate the exports of electricity so that we avoid further increases in electricity prices and further draining of the water storage units?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e436	When I hear the representative of Moxnes, it sounds like our whole power and electricity cooperation with the world around us is a purely market-driven thing. There is hardly any sector that has been more regulated and planned for the development and insurance of State ownership and control. The point is, with our links with Nordic neighbours, with Russia in the north and towards Europe, we have a security. In times when we're having a tough time, we can import, and then we can export. It makes the community good money, traditionally, and we also have security that we have good supplies. We're going to look at the impact of power exports on prices, and it's hard now in this high-priced situation to put two lines below that answer. But it's been suggested by Statnett that these cables to England over time can mean 2 to 4 cents in increased price – I'm not going to tell you what that answer with two lines below is. But to the consequences of saying that when we want to bring prices down, we stop exports abroad: if every country in Europe starts like that, Norway gets hurt. We have agreements, commitments and security by being in a power market with our Nordic neighbours. We have had that since the 1990s, it has over time secured us low prices, and I believe that over time it is still in Norway's interest that we are connected in a predictable way, and that our partners know what they can trust in in Norway. But then I think it's a big task for us to ensure more renewable power – for hydrogen production, for sea wind, for the Norwegian power-processing industry. Then we have to take action as the representative of the Moxnes is against: we have to build sea winds, we have to build wind on land – under arranged forms – and we have to look at the hydropower. We need more renewable energy, and we need to have political will to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e447	Good day, man, axe shaft – we got full security of supply in 1993. The new thing is that we've got cables, North Sea Link to England and NordLink to Germany, which is dramatically increasing export capacity out of our country. I know that Støre is aware of this – it is something quite different than what we had before, which was therefore necessary for a necessary power exchange. So now we have a huge export capacity. So the question to a social democrat is, is it willing to regulate the export of electricity to bring down the electricity prices, to ensure security of supply? There is also an exemption clause in the EEA Agreement, Article 112, ‘if serious economic, social or environmental difficulties are emerging in a sector’. Well, aren't we there now that we have such serious economic and social difficulties, and that there is room for political regulation and governance?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e454	It will serve Norway, the electricity customers and our business very badly if we now report to Europe that we are going out of the cooperation that binds Europe and the Nordic countries together in a power market, and then we are going to take action for ourselves, and then the others will say that they will take action on their own. Over time, there is a poor solution for Norway, there is no government going into it, and it is not a social democratic answer. A social democratic answer is to make sure that we continue to distribute fairly in Norway, that some time now, with exceptionally high revenues for the state because of power, we allocate as we are now going to – to the power customers, so that they can deal with everyday life. A social democratic response is to plan for industrial development where we have renewable energy – which we are going to develop, which requires decisions and investments, and on which the community takes the lead, so that we get more renewable power in our power-generating industry. But it's not breaking agreements we have with other countries, and it's not to say that every country is going to be okay, because over time Norway will lose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e459	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e464	Yesterday, the government held a press conference with new measures in relation to the coronary apathy and also measures against industry. But that press conference has strengthened and created a huge uncertainty in the outdoor industry, travel and cultural life. That's what it's done here in the city and elsewhere in the country. What happens is that you have a lot of cancellations, Christmas tables are cancelled, events are cancelled, you have a situation where permit notices are now sent out. On the part of the government, there was an extension of the compensation scheme. That's good. At the same time, they are vague and unclear in terms of wage compensation, which would have had an impact now. There is nothing about deferred tax payments. There is no initiative to find solutions that can reduce or also postpone the employer’s period of leave. The only government that has come so far that can come quickly is 200 million. kr, which was set aside by the previous government in our revised budget, where there are again funds that can be used through the municipal compensation scheme, which can be distributed. There's also a description that it's going to be 1 billion. kr to the municipal scheme. My question is, last year we were in a similar situation. Then the majority – the blue-green majority on Stortinget – found a solution via the new age, where we granted 250 million. kr directly down to the municipalities. It had an immediate effect in the outdoor industry. Is the Prime Minister open that the Labour Party and the Center Party can participate in a similar solution this year, to get the money out quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e473	This municipal framework has been strengthened in connection with the effusion, so we're notifying 1 billion. In addition, kr, because the municipalities can then hit this quite well when they are close to it. I would remind you that the worst thing for our outdoors would be if we didn't take action yesterday. The worst thing for our outdoor life would be to say that the omicron variant gets to come and go, we don't know what it means, and then we get an explosive increase in infection. Then we'll have a shut-down. We haven't decided that now. It is still possible to go to the Christmas table, it is still possible to go out, but you have to follow the rules that apply to the individual outdoor areas. We've been busy not shutting down, but we're hitting the rules that are in keeping distance. It's necessary. As the Holden Committee pointed out, it is important to consider the socio-economic interests of pandemic management. The worst thing for the social economy is that the disease goes free and the health system breaks down. It has great consequences. On short notice, we have revived the compensation scheme that has been in place. It's available, it's known. We have extended the daily allowance period one month for workers and self-employed people, and today we have dialogue with the different organisations in society to have action in place. I'm busy here and now, but it's not like when the various infectious diseases measures came under the government of Elvesuen were part of and supporter, measures came in parallel with infectious diseases. On the contrary, they came long after, and they were largely designed here in Stortinget. Now we have a package that has been presented. We make the different arrangements. We're going to listen to cultural life, we're going to look at how these arrangements work, and we're going to make any adjustments and reorganizations to make them the best they can. Then we're going to hope that these are measures that won't last too long, and that we'll get through and get back to a situation that's more normal. Nothing would be better than that, but then it requires that we also take the measures now, and that we end up with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e484	It doesn't help that the Prime Minister says you can go to the Christmas table. The situation is that they are cancelled — and they are cancelled in many places. There's no doubt that what's happening now is that the incomes are going to go away, especially in the nightlife. This is income in December, and many places depend on it for the rest of the year. That's what's now going to be gone. What will be decisive in the near future if the alerts will also arrive this year is what signals the government will provide. Then the days run. It's 14 days, and then the cost starts to go for these businesses. They become my question: Will the Prime Minister take an initiative – and it must be towards the LO, the NHO and the parties – to ensure that you can get a daily allowance from the first day, that they can now extend the scheme so that formerly-closed enterprises are freed from the employer's period now when they have to close down? It was done in spring, out of September, but now it's back.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e491	What I'm concerned about is that we don't now have mechanisms that stimulate more permissiveness than necessary. I hope that the duration of what we have now decided on by measures to prevent infection will not be too long. We don't know, but we need to be ready for that. I hope that the most vulnerable companies will find the opportunity to keep in touch with those who work, so that you do not need to permit. We have a situation in the Norwegian economy today where the economy is going well, it's high activity, a lot of businesses are making good money, but it's sectors of society that are being hard hit. That is why we are concerned that there are measures available to them. We've used the compensation scheme, which is known. The self-employed are given a system. We discuss with the parties how we can best organise it, so that we do not lose competence in these important industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e496	There will be follow-up questions – first Guri Melby.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e501	The anti-infectious measures presented yesterday were based on professional advice, and no one here really contests the need for that type of action. What I think is important is that we now discuss, first of all, how we should live with this over a longer period of time. And secondly, how are we going to deal with the negative consequences? Now there's been a lot of talk about business compensation, it's important. For most of us, it's boring that Christmas tables and stuff like that are canceled – but we're fine, we're fine. For many others, there are some events that are now being canceled, which may be one of the few things they have to enjoy. We got the news earlier this week that Alternative Christmas is now being cancelled because it is not possible to accept as many guests as you care. They're going to get something outdoors, but we all understand that it's not going to be an equally comprehensive offer. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: What is the government's plan to ensure that the addicts and others of the most disadvantaged in our society get a Christmas they can enjoy, and that the measures aimed at the most disadvantaged are maintained despite the infection?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e508	It's good questions, and we remember from the last period of closures and restrictions that there were vulnerable people in a more vulnerable situation. We also remember that differences that were there before were reinforced by the pandemic. There were also many vulnerable people who were not seen and heard, because they do not have strong speakers. It's the government's attention. So I hope that the framework that we have now laid makes it possible to have social meeting venues, have activities and see people. It is quite clear that within the provisions we have made, it is not closure. The organisations, the government representative and the arrangements that work against people who are struggling with abusing or other social problems are not shut down, they are working. I have the belief that they know the experience with the rules on infectious diseases and can handle the close contact and activities that are needed to minimise the harm to this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e516	Linda Hofstad Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e521	Now the hotels, restaurants and the outdoor industry report that the cancellations run in, and in a time of pre-Christmas and Rome Christmas that would collect much of the income lost in the last and a half years. If the industry does not receive guests, they do not receive any income, and it is difficult to pay for those who work. More people now also report that they see no other way out than going to the lay-offs. This I think concerns everyone in the room here, because those who are now in danger of being permitted are very many young people who have no alternative or other job to go to. Here's the thing about young people who don't have that long seniority. So what is the message from the prime minister of all the young people in the industry who are now afraid that they will go into Christmas without a job?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e526	It bothers me too. Many young people have their part-time jobs in these industries. I want to come back to it that if we don't now take measures against a variant of infection that has a very high frequency of infection, as the health director calls a game changer in how we have to deal with this, the consequences will be far, far greater. We are now doing these measures with the aim of getting control, so that the economy can function as normally as possible, and that we protect our health care system. It is also important for young people. What I hope is that we get a situation where these outdoors, hotels, restaurants are able to keep in touch as much as possible – and some activity – with those who work there, because we hope to get back to normal activity. We have had compensation schemes in place, we have extended the day-to-day pay legislation so that workers are assured if they are in a difficult situation. And then we get to hope that the measures work, so that we get back to a more normal situation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e533	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e538	There is a difficult situation — it soon begins to be in the third year — for Norwegian hospitals. It's an enormous pressure on the total capacity. The population needs security in order to seek health care. We see that more leaves are not looking for help, and it's important that they actually do, because then we can do more for them. Acute suffering continues to occur, accidents continue, and intensive capacity is required. When we see the pressure rising day by day, I am also grateful for the requests and decisions made yesterday, for example. to use mouthbands and to keep distance. The head of intensive nurses in Bærum said that if people keep this, it is one of the most important measures we can do. I think the government was waiting quite a long time to come up with that advice. The Health Minister replied that there was a proportionately large intervention, and therefore they expected it. My question is: we are committed to getting all the good measures that can strengthen capacity, and these are long-term measures. Getting enough people trained, getting intensive places are long-term measures. But I'm concerned that hospitals in Oslo yesterday reported that they want to cut down on the surgical capacity, because they need intensive care. What does the Prime Minister think to do to secure capacity in the future, in the short term, not just because of infection, but because of other diseases, where one now leaves to use the capacity that we really need?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e545	This is one of the main reasons behind yesterday’s action: ensuring that we do not get so much pressure on hospitals that they need to shift all attention to intensive capacity and respiratory treatment, reducing elective treatment, reducing cancer treatment, and reducing acute levels. That's what's the challenge. Now we have 320 inmates -- I hear some say 320 inmates up to 5.5 million people in Norway. Well, if this omicron variant is as contagious as it looks, and we don't get control of it, those numbers can rise very, very fast, with consequences for the hospitals. So the reason we have the measures is to prevent hospital congestion. The representative here says, let's look at the short term. But it's interesting to look at the long term. For the eight years the representative was behind the budgets here in Stortinget, the hospitals were too heavily funded, and the municipal health service was too heavily funded. There are two important premises for the concern of the Health Directorate today. It is that we lack intensive capacity in hospitals, it is too poorly developed, preparedness is not good enough. It is a long-term measure. It is also that there is a lack of staff in the municipalities, which means that the municipal doctors and their employees are out of work. So here we have a responsibility over time, which I think we also have to take with us. How do we plan this for the future? For this government it has been important to give priority to the municipalities. It has been important to follow up the municipalities with a better economy, and we will have to do new steps to ensure that the fixed medical system does not collapse. It's my real concern – close to people. Then we have to plan the operations of hospitals so that they have an enhanced preparedness. They're too vulnerable today. Nor is there anything that it is possible to do from one day to another, it needs long-term planning. There are now several educational positions, more money has come in, we have increased the allocation to the hospitals, but this needs to be put on a good plan, and the government intends to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e556	I agree that it could certainly have been done more in the eight years that we have behind us. I also fully agree that long-term planning is needed in order to reach a capacity that is responsible for the population not only when it is a pandemic but also otherwise. In acute crises, when there is a great deal of pressure on the health system – it is today, although capacity is not completely detonated – nurses and doctors are now in a spa every day to make priorities. They even double guard. Usually when hospitals have crises, it's like you have a debrifing and make sure that the staff are followed up in a way that makes them able to stand in this every single day. What does the Prime Minister think about the follow-up of the staff now in that spaga, not because of the new virus, but because of the delta virus? That's what the NRK reported today. We haven't gotten there yet that it's the new virus that overloads the hospitals, but it's the delta virus.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e565	I think about it that we're going to do everything we can to ensure that they don't get overloaded. We – the representative Bollestad, me and everyone else – will take steps to keep away and bring down the infection pressure so that they can get a Christmas, that they can get a vacation, get a vacation, get a night off, avoid going double watches, could debrife. That's what we've taken over, that's what the system in the hospitals we've taken over. So the representative's commitment I value, because we're going to have to discuss this in the future, but it's also necessary to see ourselves in the mirror: how did we get there? A wholesale notification was submitted in 2013 summarising the Norwegian experience with the swine flu. It concluded that these types of infectious influenza had to lead to increased intensive hospital capacity. That it's not followed up, is one of the reasons we're there today. But now we have to deal with the situation as it is. We need to see the importance of the personnel, both in hospitals and in the community health services, around the community doctors, those who are vaccinated, and those who provide the close support. Then we have to put a plan for enhanced preparedness in both primary and specialist health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e572	There will be follow-up questions – first Olaug Vervik Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e577	I fully agree – and I said that in the previous follow-up question too – that the capacity has to rise. There we have a common responsibility and a common task. I fully agree with that. At the same time, we also have a responsibility to keep those who are already there, both by seeing them and by making sure that they are able to double guard. Then there is a special signal when the health minister, who is your councillor, says: It is not necessary to bring mouthbands now – it was said a week ago – we continue to go to Christmas table, and I do not want to be a party brake. What signal does it send, seems the Prime Minister, to those in the spaga every day, with double guards, and who get people not with the new virus, but with the delta virus? Today, it's actually what's most of it in the hospitals. What kind of signal does it send to the population when one is in a situation where one has to take more stringent measures – which I agree with? What does the Prime Minister think of such different versions in a few days?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e582	This is because we have followed the health advice of the Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate. Until the highly probable omicronvarian is throughout the country, the strategy was to have regional responses. When we took over the responsibility, it was a normal working day with increased readiness. Then we have strengthened preparedness and put in place strong measures regionally. A week ago, strong measures were introduced in the Oslo region. Some municipalities in the interior and the bay also joined, the Drammen came in, and Lier came in. Then there was no point in saying that you had to wear a mouthband if you were in Namdalen, and it wasn't infected. So here you take measures closely. Now we have reason to believe that the omicron variant has been in Norway maybe a little longer, it's more contagious, it's a national phenomenon, and then we introduce the one meter rule, in line with the guidelines and advice that are. If you can't keep the distance of 1 meter, you should use a mouthband. I feel that there are powerful measures, which are precisely designed to protect our health services and our working life – and not least to protect children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e590	Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e595	I listened interested in the answers the Prime Minister gave to the previous questioner. I just want to remind you that after nine budgets with the Solberg government, it has been prepared for an activity growth of 19 p.m. in hospitals. There are about 8.5 percentage points higher than eight budgets under the red-green government. We need to distinguish between intensive capacity in a normal situation and under a pandemic. When the pandemic came, our government strengthened intensive capacity in the short term. There were 289 permanent intensive sites. Basic appropriations were increased by 5.5 billion in May 2020. kr, the equipment situation improved, and 3 100 employees have undergone internal training in intensive treatment of covid 19 patients. We believe that there is a need to increase permanent intensive capacity in the long term and have started work on it by establishing 100 new educational positions. What new steps has the Støre Government taken to improve intensive capacity, which has not already been implemented or launched by the Solberg Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e604	A lot of what's done here is good, and I said it in opposition. For the 100 posts: there are no intensive staff coming out of an oil fund or out of a budgetary arrangement. They must be trained, they must be recruited, and there must be working conditions in which they find it useful to enter. So that's good. What has the Støre government done? It has increased the hospital appropriations by 700 million. kr. It is basic appropriations that need to be taken into account in the follow-up – several educational positions. Then we have to look at the whole spectrum, because yes, it's good that the level of activity increases, but if the level of activity increases and it wears people out, we become vulnerable. So there has to be a relationship between the capacity in a normal situation and an extra capacity in readiness. This is also linked to what is happening in communities. I'm worried that the fixed crisis, which is the overloading of the municipal health system, also has consequences in the hospitals, because it's the fixer that's a door opener, that takes away a lot of the health problems we have. And when it doesn't work, we also have to deal with it. This government has done and granted more money.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e613	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e618	Even under a pandemic, we have to create room to raise other important questions, and mine is about school. The government of Solberg increased quality and knowledge at all levels of the education system, and an important result was that more and more young people are completing secondary school. We are facing a wide range of challenges that we need to deal with wisely: climate crisis, migration, digitisation, the need for change in the labour market. This requires the willingness and ability to prioritize knowledge at all levels in order to create learning joys and to adapt to the needs of the labour market. It is therefore discouraging to see that the steps taken by the government are to reverse measures that raise knowledge and quality, to the benefit of structure and school leisure. The government cuts in the introduction of an extra hour at the youth level, abolishes the teacher-specialist system, cuts funds that were set aside for lost learning during the pandemic, cuts Norwegian, math and English skills requirements for all teachers, removes the absenteeism threshold that ensures increased presence – not just under the pandemic, but up to the next autumn – cuts grant to universities and colleges, among others. measures to develop digital education, prioritize large amounts of money at lower kindergarten and SFO – not to low-income families, but to all others – and prioritise municipalities to maintain old school structures. In addition, the government has already abolished the Workers' Party's reading, writing and calculation guarantee. My question is simply whether this down-priority of knowledge and quality is to respond to the major challenges facing us as a nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e629	It may not surprise the representative Sanner that I do not agree with this description. For this government and for the Hurdal platform, the ambition is to build a school that sees all children and that has high quality and more accurate requirements for recruiting more quality teachers. Competence in a wider range of subjects is central. An important challenge – I think the representative and I agree on that, in the light of what I have heard him say before – is that we have to make sure that those who enter high school have the prerequisites for doing it, whether it be study specialisation or professional. We have a powerful plan for upgrading the professions, both on the equipment side and on the teacher side. We all agree that it is also necessary to take action through high school and early years in order to facilitate that more students may have the prerequisites to enter the wider course, for example. through a strengthened practical part of the subjects. This means that those students who have practical skills and can really be successful with them will also be seen and will be able to move on. Then I would say that we have faced a situation of pressure on teachers, lack of teachers, and we believe that more accurate skills requirements, as we have suggested, will be able to recruit more people. We will also be able to bring back more teachers who have trained as teachers and who are now out in society – when they are not separated, then they can come back to work – and facilitate it. We are also concerned that the municipal economy, which is important for those who run schools, municipalities and counties, is also crucial for the security that is to be in school. So we have a broad commitment to bet on knowledge and school – and, of course, what comes later, with lifelong learning and cooperation with the parties so that you can fill your skills through working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e642	I noticed that the Prime Minister said he did not want teachers to be separated. Now the government is making sure that almost 2,000 teachers are separated. Teacher specialists are supposed to make sure that we keep skilled teachers in school. It shall ensure the professional community and school development. There was a final report from NIFU a few days after the government parties together with SV decided to wind up the whole scheme. The final evaluation is positive. It shows that more skilled teachers are kept in school, and it contributes positively to the professional community and school development. So my question is, what is it that the Prime Minister, who is otherwise concerned about not separating teachers, wants to separate 2,000 teacher specialists who are in school, and that one decides this only days before there comes a final report from NIFU?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e649	The students who are in that training shall complete that training and pursue it. One of the challenges in school life is that up to 50 pst. of the special education given by people who do not have vocational training as a teacher, so that measures to recruit more teachers, get more people through teacher training and ensure that we do not have temporary work needs to be taken over time. There the government has intervened. So I just want to point out this with the absenteeism limit. The working party is for an absence limit, but as the situation has now been, in the pandemic, we believe it is an unwise practice of a system, with the burden it is for permanent practitioners and for others. When we get to summer, we see what the plan is for next year. We should have the absence limit, but it should also be adjusted in relation to the experience we are reaping.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e656	There will be follow-up questions – Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e661	I agree with the need to raise special education. That's why we started a lift for special pedagogical competence. I respect the fact that the Prime Minister has not had time to read the final report of the NIFU on the teacher-specialist system, but I would recommend the Prime Minister to ask the Minister of Knowledge to do so. Because it's a little funny, to say it carefully, that you wind up a system days before there comes a final report. And the final report is positive -- it shows that more skilled teachers want to stay in school. My other question relates to the conciliation, where you cut into funds that would go to lost progress and close knowledge gaps for students who have lost valuable teaching time during the pandemic. What comes from the fact that the government, along with SV, chooses to cut into such a targeted scheme, which is about children and young people who have been in home school and have lost their teaching time? It's going to be especially special when we're now on our way into a new wave of infection.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e668	The question is how targeted it is – how sure it is. I'd like to say that a municipal economy strengthened by $2.50. kr, and which ensures that municipalities can recruit enough teachers, is the important investment we have in having good teachers even through difficult times. It takes a lot of our schools when we go into a pandemic. I said yesterday that we're protecting about children and young people, but I also said that if this is going in the wrong direction, we might have to introduce a yellow level in the traffic light model in the schools. Then it is important that those who are in school are able to provide the adapted education to be given, whether it is going to be switched to digital, or – as we hope – it can still be in school everyday life. It is probably skilled teachers and a secure economy that is the main strategy for the school to deliver the important mission it has.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e676	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e690	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in the salapp. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Mimir Kristjánsson to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, has been withdrawn. Question 5, from the representative Freddy André Hövstegård to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, will be taken up by the representative Mona Fagerås. Questions 9 and 10 from the representatives of Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde and Olve Grotle, respectively, to the Minister for Climate and Environment, must be postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State is prevented from meeting in Stortinget. Question 11, from the representative of Mudasar Kapur to the Minister for Local and District Affairs, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e708	‘After a few months with the Central Party in government, we already see the outcome of the policy. Business owners Ola Braanaas move from the District Municipality of Yellow because the tax pressure is getting so high and he won't lose money out of the district business to pay taxes to the Department of Finance. FrP has always said that district policy is to ensure local jobs in the private sector. Would the Council make it better to have jobs in the districts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e715	It is a goal of this government that people should be able to live throughout the country. This stands in contrast to the government Progress Party was part of, which had centralization as a solution. The government will pursue a tax policy that reduces differences, provides growth and value creation and stimulates employment. The tax system shall contribute to greater social and geographical redistribution. We're going to get more people to work and create activity across the country. We will pursue a forward-looking industrial policy. Norwegian enterprises must have good, predictable and stable framework conditions that facilitate investment and further growth. This is why the government has provided a budget for 2022 which takes Norway in a new and fairer direction. We are betting in the districts and providing opportunities for people and businesses throughout Norway. For example, we start developing rural growth agreements, which will contribute to growth and development by strengthening business and housing in vulnerable parts of District Norway. We are increasing the grant for broadband development to contribute to housing and jobs across the country. A third example is the increased allocation of flood and escape insurance measures. It will make it safer to live and work in District Norway, where floods and hazards can be a challenge. And then we're going to reduce the ferry charges by 30 pst. compared to 1 January 2021, so that people across the country can use the ferries along the coast. We also take measures to start with free ferries for many of the smaller island communities along our coast. This is an important first step towards making transport along the long-distance coast cheaper. In the field of taxation, we increase the specific deductions for farmers, fishermen and seafarers, and the special deduction from income in the Nord-Troms and Finnmark action zone is increased by 15 500 kroner to 20 000 kroner. A total relief is passed through the commuting deduction of 800 million. kr in force from 2021 to 2022. In Norway, we have a good welfare offer for people, no matter where you live. That's how we want it to still be. It requires that we all contribute to the community. The difference between this government and the previous one, supported by the Progress Party, is that we want to redistribute more. Ordinary people with ordinary incomes get a little less tax, while those who have the most have to do something more. In this way, the tax system contributes to more justice, while building new, good services throughout Norway. The budget agreement for 2022 is also a step towards making the taxes on wealth more distributive and fairer. Valuation of shares and operating assets, etc., expensive primary dwellings, secondary dwellings and recreational dwellings has increased, and the deduction is made. That means that those who have the most have to contribute more, while there are about 10,600 fewer who have to pay property taxes next year compared to the Solberg government proposal for 2022. This means that there are several small family-run businesses around the country that might drop property taxes next year. The Hurdal Platform underlines the need for a redistributive tax policy, good public welfare services, roads and technology, change and knowledge to ensure settlement and business throughout the country. Summary: This is a budget that will create activity and development in all parts of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e732	I don't think anyone in District Norway is impressed by that listing, that a building growth agreement should be awarded for small money as compensation for a tax on district work places. Governments said something about equity in property taxes. Then I'll take him to a little experiment. One has auctions that now form the basis for which one is required to pay in taxes on property under cultivation concessions. There are Norwegian family-owned founders competing along the coast with e.g. foreign Cermaq, which operates and bids prices, which in turn means that a person is required to pay taxes on wealth. I don't know if those who are out on the island think it's fair that an actor who has completely different conditions of competition, who skips this property tax, can use more of their surplus to buy new concessions, which in turn means that their competitors will be taxed all over and will have to move out of the country or out of their municipality. Does the Council of State really think this is fair tax policy, as he referred to the wealth tax as?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e739	Today the tax lists have arrived, and fortunately we see that many along the coast are making good money and that many families are also making good money, for example. rearing. It's very good for us all that we've had a policy that allows you to create jobs and have value creation, and that some people have also managed to create billions of wealth. We need that kind of entrepreneur in Norway. One of the reasons why we have that value creation, growth and development in all of Norway is that we have a good welfare society, and it's a spice layer. The whole idea of the Workers' Party-Center Party government is that those with the strongest backs should contribute a little more, and then we give the tax cuts to those with the lowest incomes. That's the redistribution that we think is right, and that everyone enjoys. Those who have managed to create large wealth and high incomes, too, enjoy the common welfare society that we all enjoy and that enables us to create good economic growth and development in all parts of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e746	Interestingly, the Council of State takes the credit for the tax lists now published, which are based on the level of taxation that has been under eight years of civil plurality. He has a double tax on these players here, so one has to look at future tax lists – if they're still taxes to Norway. That's what I'm worried about, that you have to watch yourself sell out or move out, like Brananaas, who moved to Bø because they have a more competitive tax system than the rest of Norway's municipalities. I think it's a strange argument you have. It's not like these actors are just enriching themselves. The actors that are out in District Norway are contributing to more employment, they buy services, they contribute to sports, they are patriots. I can't believe that taxing them, taking the money into the Ministry of Finance and handing it over again are better than actually being actors in the community. This is good district policy. Is that not agreed by the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e751	We in the government are very happy that there are many who are able to create values, jobs and development throughout Norway, and that there are also some who, of course, are able to create a fortune on the basis that they are capable, that it is a well-functioning community, that one has been given access to common natural resources – there are many reasons why one has managed to create that business. Honor them for it! It's important to all of us that we have that kind of nutritionist. But it is also important for us all that we have had a redistributive tax system in Norway, that if one has particularly high incomes, a little more contributes to the community. If one has particularly high wealth, one contributes a little more to the community, but one has also built up the incomes and wealth of the society that Norway is. What one sees, is that Norway is one of the societies in the world where it is easiest to create high incomes, and also wealth, because we have a well-functioning, good society and a good public sector that also facilitates value creation and industrial development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e761	‘Working for more is our most important job. Therefore, on the right-hand side, we introduced an activity obligation for young social welfare recipients. It's important to give people the follow-up and dignity they deserve. Helping more people stay active helps to give more people a chance to get back to work. In the Hurdal platform we can read that the government will introduce an activity reform for new recipients of redundancy payments and disability benefits and provide a job guarantee. Can the Council of State clarify how this should be done in concrete terms?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e768	For this government, work is a primary goal for all. It is the key to a more equitable distribution and more freedom for the individual. It's a goal for us that more young people will have a proper chance in the world of work. Anyone who can and wants to work will have the opportunity. We base our work on labour and welfare policies, and that also means that the community must set up more and better measures than one has today. It is particularly important to get young people who are recipients of passive social security benefits into action. It is important for us that it is easier to combine it to accept social security benefits and to be at work. This means that working life should be open and inclusive also for those with disabilities and/or other health challenges. One of the measures to achieve this is an activity reform for new recipients of redundancy money and disability benefit. As the platform points out, those who can work something should receive a job guarantee that really guarantees the ability to combine social security and work. Nav is the one who will have a superior responsibility for securing jobs that are adapted to this group, while the municipalities will have a duty to ensure that this group gets a job. The system should be phased in gradually, starting with the young. We are following up the platform, and this point involves a reform that will have meaning both for the recipients, for Nav and also for the municipalities. That means that the details around it I will come back to at a later date, so that things can be done in the right order.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e785	It's very good to hear that we share the goal of getting more in activity, and there are some positive elements in this proposal that we're looking forward to. It was just to get people in action that the Right in its time introduced an activity obligation, an intensified youth effort, which helps young people quickly into work, education and other activities, and the research shows good results. It is very good that the Minister of Labour will learn and continue this work. But I am still a little curious and would like to have a specific answer – yes or no – as it is a job guarantee. When this proposal is put in place, can the Council of State guarantee and promise that everyone who can and wants to work has a job?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e792	I think I want to nuance the representative Stokkebø's view of the effect of the obligation of activity on the beneficiaries of social assistance, which he draws out here, directed at those who are less than 30 years old. One has received a first interim report, which has evaluated some of the effects, and he shows that there is a general and significant lack of getting Nav offices to give meaningful and effective activity to the entire width of a group of users. One also sees in interim report II that there are no signs of increased participation in education or work, but I can assure the representative Stokkebø that we can't find the opposite either – so one gets no negative effect. But I'm going to think that when this is drawn out as a big effort, which has been important for young people outside the labour market, it's most regrettable that the results don't seem to be building up in such high-quality languages. I look forward to rolling out the activity reform for young people with a job guarantee, and the details of it I will come back to at an appropriate time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e797	It is actually a Fafo report that shows that the youth effort we made in Nav has led to better results in getting young people into work, education and other activities, and that the Nav offices are now working much better against young people. It's the facts; it's research. I noticed that I did not get a complete answer to the question. In the previous Question Time, the Council of State baptized me into the 'Walking Council of Languages' and it is a commitment that rests heavily on my shoulders. So I checked with the Language Council, and it says that ‘guarantee’ is a commitment, not a goal. The reason I am asking about this is that I am a little worried that this guarantee will end up as a Workers' Party guarantee otherwise, that they will not be guaranteed. We saw that the Labour Party's guarantee not to increase the tax on ordinary people broke quite quickly. So I want to give the Council of State the opportunity to be clear here: will she guarantee, when this measure is in place, that everyone who wants and can work has a job? That must be the point of a guarantee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e804	The Tax Charge for the Workers' Party is held by the Government. Saying something else is directly wrong. If it is the case that the representative Stokkebø is concerned about something, it is optional for him whether he will continue to worry about the activity reform of young people with job guarantees. But I can assure the representative Stokkebø that we will work systematically and thoroughly to ensure that there will be a reform both for the recipients, for Nav and for the municipalities. The representative Stakkebø refers to research. So it was research that I referred to when I took up the results that the social welfare activity obligation has had. When it comes to Nav’s youth effort, I will give the representative Stokkebø the right to have an evaluation from Fafo show that the effort has had a significant positive impact on the likelihood of young Nav users taking formal education, but unfortunately the evaluation shows no corresponding effect on the transition to work. And it must be important that we encourage young people to get into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e822	This question is drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e830	‘In the evening of 6 November we could read that during November there will be a cost inquiry on the expanded capacity of medical training in Norway. In the discussion of the management message in the spring of 2021, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed the following: «The government is asked to provide the inter-ministerial investigation into medical training for the Stortinget». Is the investigation now complete, and when will the Council of State bring it before the Storting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e837	Many of the doctors in Norway are trained abroad. A sample led by Hilde Grimstad recommended in 2019 that Norway should train more doctors here in Norway. The Grimstad Committee’s investigation was thorough in many areas, but had its limitations in making costs and consequences visible by increasing educational capacity at home. As a result, a multi-ministerial working group has been working since the beginning of the year to assess costs and opportunities to increase educational capacity in Norway. It's a perfectly normal case-preparing process within the government. The working group has a complex set of issues that require careful evaluation. Increased educational capacity has implications for both the education and health sectors. The group has obtained assessments and cost calculations from universities, health companies and state buildings to assess impacts for, among others. area, scientific annual works, infrastructure and practices. The group has also met with the Legeforeningen and KS and has evaluated alternative study models. This thorough process provides the government with a sound basis for decision-making. For the government, it is important that the knowledge policy is ambitious and that we build strong, high-quality professional training courses throughout the country. In line with the Hurdal Platform, the government wants to step up the number of new study places for areas with a particularly high level of competence. This includes medical training. The government has already proposed to increase the capacity of medical training from 2022 by 15 study places at the University of Tromsø. I am concerned that the government should have a good knowledge base in assessing how best to follow up these ambitions. I would like to remind you that the main model of Norwegian medicine education is a six-year integrated education course, cf. Treatment of the State budget by the Storting for 2021. The Grimstad Committee recommended the use of decentralised study models using a larger proportion of healthcare. This is an interesting way to increase educational capacity, which the government will consider. Both education and healthcare are now strengthening our use of the whole country. The report to be delivered by the working group is part of the government’s decision-making basis and is an internal case-by-case document to assess the budgetary implications of different road choices. The demand for doctors is high. It is therefore important that we train more doctors in Norway, also in a way that involves the efficient use of public funds. During 2022, I will return to Stortinget about how the government will follow up the ambitions of medical education, and both the decision and the basis for this will be presented to Stortinget in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e850	The councils mentioned the Grimstad committee, and I know that. It was the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left that provided money for it and to start that investigation, where they recommend that one comes up to that 80 pst. by doctors should be trained in Norway, compared with the current 50. I have registered that it says in the Hurdal platform that there will be a big message about professional training. Then I wonder what will be part of that big message. Is it doctors, is it nurses, is it psychologists who will be part of that big message? And given that the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the SV and the Advance Party got in place a stepping-up plan for exactly these, adopted before the summer, I wonder if it will be followed up, or if we have to wait for a big message before it will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e857	It is quite obvious that this government has great ambitions in the profession too, and it is also obvious that we need to educate a larger proportion of our doctors in Norway. These included: Therefore, this government added a further 15 places to the medical study in Tromsø, in addition to what the previous government had proposed. So I think the big picture is that we're going to need more of our very most professionals in the future, and it's going to be an important task for this government to dimension our education sector in a way that allows these needs to meet all over the country. It's a job that will go independent of the big message about the vocational training, and the escalation is, with all due respect, we're in the process of reporting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e864	The escalation of 15 places of study is a long step away from what the Central Party promised it would be at least 100 a year from the first year of their entry into the government, and it is a good piece away from what the Progress Party also proposed, with 250 study places in medicine. The Council of State stated that six-year-olds were the main model recommended by the Grimstad Committee and also mentioned in the State budget. The previous state council that was up here, Hadia Tajik, mentioned in the Evening Magazine a model for a three-year run, where one has three years in Bergen and three years in Stavanger. I wonder if the Council of State has assessed that model, especially now in view of the co-location of the University of Stavanger and the hospital in Stavanger, that it speaks for a doctor's education in Stavanger, where the University of Stavanger also receives degree law – whether there is any agreement between the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e871	In the case of medical training at a separate medical faculty at the University of Stavanger, we will come back to it through the choice of a model of how to escalate the capacity of medical training in Norway. I'm going to Stavanger now, already Friday, to meet both the municipality and the university there and put myself in the matter thoroughly. If you go back to the Grimstad Committee, at least the way I read it, there's a lot of consensus that you want to continue the model of six-year integrated education, and then there's a disagreement about whether you think you can accept a temporary arrangement related to the concept presented by Stavanger. There are assessments that the government will come back to at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e879	This question, from the representative, Freddy André, to the Minister of Research and Higher Education, will be raised by the representative, Mona Fagerås.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e884	‘After the merger was initiated in 2016, Nord University’s management systematically worked to tear down what the Nesna College had built up. How will the Council of State ensure the necessary trust and enthusiasm for the success of the re-establishment of a training institution at Nesna?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e891	Since I joined on October 14th, having reestablished activity at Nesna has been an important priority. I am very proud and happy that in less than two months we have managed to facilitate the recording of new students at Nesna already for the next year of studies, i.e. our recording. This is still just a start. So the representative's question about how I want to make sure that the trust in North University is being built up again. Trust is not an order from a government office. Trust is built on stone. I will nevertheless make sure that it is a solid foundation wall to build this trust on. That base wall is, among other things, a royal resolution showing the support of the entire government and setting out the framework for future calmness and predictability. Of course, that floor wall also involves elements of direct financial support, and not least it's my commitment to supporting the parties to work now to find a new start, to look ahead, to focus on what's going to happen, instead of what's been. I would also like to point out that the Nordic University is committed to achieving constructive and good cooperation with all stakeholders at Nesna through interaction and dialogue. No one is worthy to look back, says director of the North University, Øyvind Filling-Jensen. I believe that he is quite right in that. Finally, when it comes to enthusiasm for the future at Nesna, I'm full of optimism. We look at opportunities for more activity at Nesna in the future through more educational provision and enhanced research activity. Then I will refer to the local involvement on Helgeland. Without it, this would never have happened. It shows that exposure is beneficial. It shows that politics is useful. It shows that choices are important, and that it has something to say who it is that governs. Of course, it infects me and motivates me to work purposefully to do what I can to get a successful restoration and continuation on Nesna.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e902	We in SV were mildly surprised that the government chooses to teach at Nesna under North University. In the election campaign we stood together with central politicians from the Central Party who promised to rebuild the college in Nesna as a fully-fledged institution. That was a solution that we went for in the last growing-up period together with the Center Party. When the government put money into this in the budget, we expected this promise to be followed up, but now we see that Ola Borten Moe, the minister, has other plans. How will the Minister ensure that a mildly said lack of trust between two parties is restored, and was there any alternative other than North inside the picture when, in an unusually short time after the election, the Minister made an agreement with Nord universitet?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e909	I think it's raised beyond any doubt that if we were to succeed in re-establishing higher education at Nesna in such a short time, there was no other way to do it than in the direction of North University. Speed, I think, is really important. It is much easier to get a good result if you can build on skills, capabilities and structures that already exist than if you allow them to be confused, move to other places and find other things to do. For many reasons it was very important to have a good management speed in this case. I think that as for future trust or success, it would have helped us all if you had looked forward to it, focused on what this might be and what ambitions lie in the place of teaching, the Nesna University Centre, in the future – instead of focusing on a story that I agree is problematic for many.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e916	Building on the already existing structure, I think it is very good that the minister is involved. But can the minister be a little more clear on which organisational structure is meant for Nesna to have with Nord universitet? There is a distinction between what can be defined as a campus and what is a place of study or education. Campus shall be a place provided with university libraries, essential administrative support functions for employees and students in addition to a student relationship to offer various student welfare services such as student cabins, advisory services and canteens, while a place of education is only a place to provide collection and online basic education. What I want to say is that the campus structure is what is closest to what was on the Nesna – Nesna was a campus – and what is also on the Hurdal platform. What is in the agreement that the Council of State has made with North University at this time?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e921	First one step back: the main point of speeding up this fast is the lack of teachers that we see so far in the whole country, but especially in our northernmost part of the country. There is an urgent need to raise the capacity of teacher training, and there is an urgent need to get enough qualified staff in our schools. We also know that the tendency to serve a local and regional need is much greater if education is offered in the areas it is needed for. Then our ambitions for Nesna – and I feel that Nord University agrees with us – are something more than teacher and kindergarten teacher training. It is also about being able to provide other forms of higher education over time, perhaps in cooperation with business and higher vocational education, and it is about the elements of research and development in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e931	‘The government of Solberg greatly increased core support for the World Food Programme, WFP, in 2021. In next year's budget, the Støre Government implements two major cuts in the allocation of the WFP, as well as a general cut in the humanitarian budget. In the government's additional proposal, a cut of 200 million was proposed. kr to the WFP, and in the budgetary agreement with the Socialist Left, a further 120 million were cut. kr in the allocation. What information about the world's famine is it that the government owns, that neither the United Nations nor we have any part in?'
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e938	Let me first draw attention to the fact that the responsibility for the World Food Programme lies purely constitutionally with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Then I would like to stress that the fight against hunger – and for food security – has the highest priority in the government’s efforts to achieve sustainability goals. For this reason, the government is increasing the investment in food security and climate-smart agriculture by 500 million. NOK 2022. Half a billion dollars will also strengthen poor access to renewable energy, and we will build a solidarity pot for people on the run. In the fight against hunger, the WFP will remain one of our top allies. The WFP is a dynamic key player that reaches both more than 100 million people in crisis per year and who work long-term with food security. That is why we are proposing a core support for the 33 pst WFP. on what the previous government proposed last year. Then I would remind you that it was the Storting, through the budget agreement, that stood for the extraordinary increase we saw in 2021. When we do not continue this extraordinary increase from Stortinget's settlement, it has a reason that I will explain immediately. The world over is increasing the number of people who are starving – month by month. According to the UN, 283 million people in 80 countries are in an acute food crisis. These crises are due to armed conflict, economic downturns reinforced by the pandemic, and floods and droughts caused by climate change. Not least because of this, we give such priority to climate adaptation and food safety. Acute humanitarian aid on a large scale is also absolutely necessary, but we can no longer simply continue to provide emergency humanitarian aid without also looking at the causes of the crisis getting ever closer, and coming back again and again. Most hunger crises can be notified in advance, and much can be done through prevention. Long-term assistance should therefore provide a robustness against fluctuations in food production. We will focus on prevention and better alerting, so that we can plan crisis response in good time. We need to increasingly see long-term development cooperation in the context of humanitarian efforts – not least in cooperation with the WFP. We will facilitate the best and most sustainable form of development, namely the growth that a people creates from below. Therefore, a forward-looking development policy must contribute to societal change that strengthens the capacity to grow by its own strength.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e953	I thank the Council of State for responding on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The World Food Programme has made an invaluable effort to combat hunger globally since its founding in 1961. The government of Solberg, as said, increased core support for the WFP in excess of this year, in response to the strongly increased need to reduce hunger and increase food security. Does the Council of State consider that hunger and food security are not an important issue for Norwegian aid in 2022?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e962	I think the government has made its priorities very clear through the Hurdal platform and through the budget for next year. Food security is given priority as one of the most important projects, and the WFP is an important player in both humanitarian and, not least, in the long-term. The core support for the WFP has been fairly stable for many years, even under the previous government, at around 300 million. kr per year. Through the budgetary agreement, the budget of the year was significantly increased, and that is good, but the government's proposed level of 400 million. So kr is 100 million. kr above the 2020 level.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e969	This government council has said in previous questioning hours that it is important that those receiving help are also saturated – when it comes to cutting education aid. In this respect, it is remarkable that the cuts to the WFP are implemented in two stages, first in the supplementary proposal of Støren and secondly in the government budget agreement with the Socialist Left. On what basis does the government make this a balancing item?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e976	Food security is one of the most important priorities of this government, but we are committed to working long-term and ensuring that we can turn more and more of our efforts towards the long-term fight for food security. The aim must be to create lasting and robust resistance to hunger in order, hopefully, to reduce the recurrent humanitarian crises. Then I would like to remind the representative that the core support is only part of the means that Norway provides to the WFP. The total Norwegian aid to the WFP is close to 1.3 billion this year. Dr because very much of the support also goes through thematic and country-specific appeals. As you can see, the WFP will still be one of our most important partners in the fight against hunger.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e986	‘I Prop. 1 S from the Solberg government is described as the global focal point for health innovation in Oslo to be operated by UNICEF and that funds are allocated to this end. 160 Health. UNICEF chose Norway as a global hub for health innovation after assessing six different countries’ health innovation activities and associated health research and innovation ecosystems, because Norway was considered the most relevant place to locate the node. Why has the government suddenly neglected this work without notice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e993	I very much appreciate the representative's question because I now have the opportunity to inform the Storting about the decision in an important matter – just after the decision has been taken. Global health has been one of the most important areas of Norwegian development policy for several decades, and Norway has had and will continue to have significant leadership in this field. We continue the driving role, which we see not least in international cooperation to deal with the pandemic. Norway has just taken on board the facility council of the Global Pandemic Coalition ACT-Accelerator for another year, and the government has proposed for the Stortinget to grant a new 2 billion. kr for the important work of the coalition. The work of UNICEF on innovation in health is important. The same is the establishment of a global focal point for health innovation. But after having been in this job for almost two months, and having become familiar with the posts on the state budget that go to global health, I have come to realize that it is not as crucial where this node lies. In view of the major challenges out there — and in the light of our own priorities in the area of assistance — we did not find it appropriate to commit up so much aid for use in Norway. The cost of co-financing a UNICEF office in Norway was estimated at around 500 million. DKK over 10 years. This includes administrative costs for salaries and operations, but does not support – not support – concrete follow-up to concrete solutions in developing countries. Nor was it the case that commitments or agreements had been entered into – after talks with UNICEF on the possible establishment of such a node had started under the previous government. Norway places high emphasis on UNICEF’s efforts for innovation and development towards child-related sustainability targets. We have announced our decision, and UNICEF's head office has taken this very constructively and said that they will continue to use Norwegian environments of competence in the further work. That, of course, is very pleasing. We have started a dialogue on how we can support them, including: as a member of the Governing Board of UNICEF. In 2019, Norway was the fifth largest donor, but the largest donor per capita. The government will continue Norway's strong partnership with UNICEF, which is one of our key allies in the fight to eradicate extreme poverty by 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1012	It is good that the Council of State finally informs Stortinget, because it was set at 45 million. kr in the budget, and there are important cooperation venues. The reason that the Solberg government was a driving force for this was that we both have very strong trade unions in Norway, health was a clear area for the previous government in development policy, and not least that UNICEF is a solid and stable partner in this field. It is obvious that UNICEF has created considerable wonder and disappointment that these plans are suddenly being scrapped, obviously without any further dialogue in advance. From what I understand, this will also have quite a big impact on UNICEF's strategic plan that applies from the turn of the year, because this was a big part of what UNICEF was going to work on. Then the question to the Council of State: how will the dialogue with UNICEF continue, so that health innovation, which is extremely important in UNICEF's work, can actually be focused on?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1021	Health is still a significant priority, as I have explained in the government's work internationally. The same applies to health innovation and cooperation with UNICEF. But it might be tempting to ask a question back to the representative about whether the representative is sure that 500 million. kr over 10 years to establish an organisation in Norway is quite the right priority for scarce means of assistance in the middle of a pandemic. Having said that, I am very pleased with the good dialogue we have with the head office of UNICEF. They have said, as I said, that they want to continue the dialogue with Norwegian environments of competence. That's good news, of course. We will continue to support this work through our role, among other things. on the Administrative Board of UNICEF.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1028	It's not quite right to talk about scarce aids when we have an aid budget of over 40 billion. NOK, and this was about approx. 50 million. kr in the year for 10 years – on something that would be important for health innovation, which will help people in the long term. Nor do we have a long tradition or special experience of having UN offices in Norway. It was also one of the points: to be able to link ourselves more closely with the UN and the work of the UN, by getting this innovation office, and at the same time helping to strengthen Norwegian environments of competence, so that Norwegian environments of competence can continue to lead the work of health innovation. And even though UNICEF's head office takes this constructively, as the Council of State says, it is obvious that it has created a lot of frustration in these environments in Norway, both at UNICEF and not least at the Health Innovation Cluster, which was ready to take this great responsibility and the important task.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1035	There was no decision to add this innovation office to Norway; it was under assessment and was a decision that was added to the new development minister. I needed to turn around in this case and came after careful assessments that our commitments to global health and not least the enormous needs that now lie in the years to deal with a pandemic and to get the world after a pandemic, did not make it advisable to set up an office in Norway, which would bind at least 500 million. for administration and operation in Norway over the next 10 years, not including concrete measures at ground level in developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1043	‘In consultation with the US Secretary of Defense in Washington, Norway’s Minister of Defence expressed the need for better coordination of allied exercises in the north and ‘a desire to coordinate this better in order to relax against Russia’, according to NTB. On 29 November, VG repeats that the government wants limited activity in the north from allied vessels and aircraft. Is the government setting up new alert procedures and changing sailing patterns for allied fleet forces in the northern regions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1050	The government welcomes alliert activity in Norway and Norwegian neighbourhoods. At the same time, we focus our dialogue with the allied importance of coordinating the overall Norwegian and allied activity. This is fully in line with long lines in Norwegian security and precautionary policies, and it contributes both to predictability and stability in our neighbourhoods. Everything outside national territorial waters is international waters, and that means that our allies can initially operate as they please. Therefore, close and ongoing dialogue with our allies about activity in the north is important. In this way, we can seek influence on the arrangement of the allied activity, in the balance between deterrence and tranquillity in our neighbourhoods. The government will continue to act predictably and transparently in the neighbourhoods. That's why we're going to continue the close dialogue with our allies at all stages of carrying out activity in the north, just to strive for these elements. In the Hurdal platform, we propose to strengthen and further develop cooperation with allies and to facilitate training and training with allies in Norway and in Norwegian neighbourhoods. Finally, my invitation to better coordination of allied activity was also well received by my American colleague.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1063	I noticed that the minister used the word «transparent». It is used if something is transparent and necessarily needs to be transparent and transparent from both sides. An important confidence-building action between the Allies and Russia is the transparency of exercises — where they take place, their size and their scope. But we have seen that Russia has carried out exercises that have obviously been greater than the thresholds on which one has mutually committed to reporting the exercises. The question is: will the Minister follow this most critical practice from the Russian side? And what allied activity is being carried out today, does the government see separately, perhaps, to be limited in the northern regions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1068	We have not been asked to limit the activity in any way – we have been asked to coordinate it in the best possible way, so that the overall activity is coordinated in the best possible way. That's what the initiative is about, not a restriction of activity, and it's important for me to stress. We want allied exercises, we want symmetry with our allies, something the exercise cold response to winter with approx. 30000 participants are a good example of this. The government is also aiming at having a good and close dialogue with our neighbours in the east – we also want to have dialogue with Russia on important issues relating to us as neighbours in the north. In some areas, we have managed to maintain good dialogue in the post-2014 period, in other areas not so well. But the government is trying to recapture the dialogue in several areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1075	I noticed that the Minister did not touch the concept of transparency – I hope we have a common sense of what it really means. There is at least hope in the answer that has not yet been given. The Government has also agreed to meet as an observer when the States which have signed the Treaty of Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons will meet in Vienna. You have, probably not unexpectedly, taken criticism from our allies to take such a position. The Hurdal Platform also calls for the establishment of new meeting places for security policy cooperation in the north. When you start to see these things in context, there is reason to ask: does the government put up a new line in our foreign and security policy, linked to the same conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1082	It is a well-known exercise to ask questions on several different themes, and the theme of the question by the representative of Riveres is initially allied activities in the North and my dialogue with the US Minister of Defence on their coordination. I've answered that. The long lines of Norwegian foreign and defence policy are firmly established, including with this government. We want a close dialogue with our allies, we want extended and close cooperation also on allied exercises, and we want to have a good dialogue with Russia on relevant issues. There is no change in the Norwegian position on NATO and the long lines in Norwegian defence and foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1111	These questions must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State is prevented from meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1125	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1133	‘In the Question Time on 17 November, we were told that the transfer of some of the tasks of the governor to the county council is among the main steps the government will take to decentralize power. On the basis of the ambitions of the former Central Party Councils for the relocation of tasks and jobs, there appears to be something passive, in particular considering what representatives of the party have previously stated about state agencies and directorates. Can the Council of State therefore be more specific on which tasks will the government move out and not least transfer from the administrator?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1140	The county councils are responsible for many important services for people and communities, such as: secondary schools, school kisses, transportation and dental health. In addition, the county authorities are responsible for the development of the region through, inter alia: overall planning, culture, competence policy, public health, industrial development and environmental tasks. A well-functioning government at regional level is important, and the government wants to strengthen the county as a community developer. A particularly important measure is to strengthen the county economy. It also allows county councils to go further into different local and regional processes for social development and value creation. The Hurdals Platform Government announces a commitment to rural growth agreements and regional growth agreements. I want to get closer to the device for these efforts, but obviously the county councils will have a role to play here. These regional growth agreements are not at least concerned. The county councils can combine existing and possibly new instruments so that we can maximise the strength of regional development. Local democracy must be developed through the decentralisation of tasks for municipalities and county municipalities. As part of this, the government will consider transferring the functions of state administrators that do not concern supervision, control or complaint to county councils. Soil protection must be excluded. The central government carries out tasks in several sectoral areas. I will, in consultation with the departments concerned, set up a process to assess which tasks can be transferred from the State Manager to the County.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1151	To be a party that on every occasion marked its place in the so-called centralisation debate, the contrast to the Council of State's response – to put it a little cautiously – is quite great. As an opposition party, the central party was little concrete on which decentralised grip a government was going to take, but now the time has come to be more concrete. I would also like to remind the Council of State that former Minister of State Åslaug Haga wanted to move 6,000 jobs from Oslo. She then believed that units in all departments could be the subject of emigration. Then my question to the Council of State, which was not particularly specific in its answer now, is the Council of State willing to look at it again? Or has the Center Party recognised that there will be no emigration of sitting with the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1158	First, I would like to say that I was concerned about describing the role of county councils as important social developers and the need to strengthen that role. It may be appropriate to consider whether there are other State tasks that can be transferred to the county councils, but there is something that one has to come back to, and one also needs to carry out a more detailed process related to the state administrators. So the government of the Hurdals platform is concerned with a more even distribution of state jobs. It may to some extent be about the relocation or localisation of new state businesses, but it is also about what is happening within the various state agencies. And what we've seen in recent years – even though statistics have their strengths and weaknesses – is a tendency for very much of the growth in state jobs to come in the largest cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1165	After one has repeatedly expressed the centralization of power in infinity in the last period, it's almost a little strange how savage it can be when one has that power – and can use it. It is almost so that it might have been tempting to ask if the Council of State agrees with the relocations that took place in the previous period, for example. Norec to the Executive Board and parts of the Directorate of Agriculture to which the Council of State has its place of residence – and even was the rapporteur when it arrived. Then my question is: is the Council of State now willing to take action so that one actually does a real decentralization, or is this just saying what we couldn't get to, and what are they going to be able to get to themselves in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1170	Under different governments, there has been both the relocation of existing jobs and the creation of new ones around the country. There have been important moves, but at the same time, what I would call a quiet centralization within a number of states, which have actually moved into a significant number of jobs from different districts and into the largest cities. I think that is a development that the representative Skkelstad should also acknowledge has happened, and be willing to go into. So I think we have to look at the whole spectrum of localisation policy related to different state businesses, but it's also about strengthening, among other things. the social development role of county councils. There will in itself be important steps in a district and decentralisation policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1180	«The County Council in Viken has now launched an investigation into the Viking's future. Does the Council of State consider that it is sufficient to explore one single alternative to today's organisation, and will the government cover all the costs associated with this work?»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1187	The Government will have the opportunity to apply for division by merged county councils. In the Hurdal platform, we have determined that during 2021 a process will be launched to restore Akershus, Buskerud and Østfold based on an application from the Viken County Council. As the top body of the county council, the county council takes decisions on behalf of a county council, cf. the municipal law. It follows from Section 8 of the Splitting Act that an application for the initiation of a divisional inquiry can only be promoted by the county council itself. The addition of this right of initiative is justified by local democratic considerations. It is therefore the county council in Viken that has to assess whether sharing is best for its inhabitants and whether the application for sharing is to be sent to the department. An application for division shall be written and justified, and shall include proposals for new county limits, as set out in. division law § 8. The proposal for new borders must be based on the boundaries of today's county council and sketches where the border between the new county municipalities will go. The counties of each municipality must be shown. The application must also contain proposals for county names. The justification of the application shall include an explanation of how the county municipality will be affected by a division. The law does not specify the details of the information to be included in the application. In a letter to the combined county councils of 12 November this year, I have made some comments that should be considered in relation to any applications for division. This letter has also been sent to the Week. Forced merged county councils wishing to investigate division may, upon application, receive up to DKK 100000 in grants to this effect. In addition, county councils may receive up to SEK 200000 for consultation of citizens on the issue of sharing. This can be done by referendum, opinion or survey or meeting. In order for the Ministry to be able to pay the subsidy, the counties must provide a factual basis on which citizens can decide at a hearing. In the case of any additional costs associated with the implementation of the division, the government will contribute financially in an agreed and appropriate manner. The government will come back to this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1202	I thank you for the answer, where the Council of State focuses most on the application itself and what demands are made on it. But behind there is also an investigation that I suppose will be useful for the department in its work, for the investigation manual demands that the relevant alternatives are properly illuminated. In this case, a most relevant option would be to bring down the Viken County Municipality without creating three new county municipalities. Does the Council of State agree that his file on the Storting will have to follow the requirements of the investigation manual?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1209	A well-explored application from the County Council is important for the Ministry to be able to present an informed case on sharing to the Stortinget. Section 1 of the Division Act states: ‘Changes in the municipal or county divisions should contribute to the creation of appropriate units that can provide adequate services and management to residents and businesses.’ So it's my clear goal to be able to provide the Storting with a good basis for decision based on the applications that had to be made after the government opened up to follow up applications from coercive county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1219	The Council of State indicated that the Swedish County Council will receive a total of NOK 300000 now in the investigation phase and for consultation of the inhabitants. These processes that Viken County now runs are initiated by a clear formulation in the Hurdal platform. While the Council of State uses such modest amounts in its formulations, Minister of Finance Schlagsvold Vedum is out saying about the dissolution of the Vikings that they don't have to worry about the money. It is clear that there will be great costs for both the Viken County Municipality and the 51 municipalities located in Viken. My question is: What assurance can the Council of State give to the county and the municipalities concerned that they will be able to cover the costs of necessary investigations and processes?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1226	It can be reassuring to quote the Minister of Finance on economic issues, because in an interview he gives the NRK an indication that the government will put money on the table to ensure dissolution. He says the state will now take a larger share than what happened last time. It is a paradox that when the representative Vamraak now asks for a cost recovery for a voluntary resolution, the calculations show that the Week related to the coercive merger received 45 million. DKK to cover one-off costs, while the county's own report shows that it cost 335,6 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1234	«The new government and the Socialist Left Party grant extra funds to the municipalities which are badly needed. Still, that's not enough. In one case at NRK Nordland on 23 November we can read that the villages of Hadsel Inland are in danger of losing more important services such as kindergarten and school and having to cut fire protection. This may take a long time before the fire service arrives: 30-40 minutes, estimates the municipality director. What does the Council of State think that despite the fact that the Central Party is in government, there is still a alarming need for better and more robust local economy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1241	Municipalities are the foundations of the welfare society. In order for them to provide their citizens with good welfare services, they need to be secured resources and freedom of action to perform their tasks. It is the municipalities themselves that are best able to assess what is needed most in the municipality in terms of solutions and priorities. Therefore, it is important that we strengthen the free income so that municipalities themselves can give priority to resources in areas where the needs are greatest. The government is increasing the free income of municipalities by 2.5 billion. Compared to the previous government budget. We're suggesting that the growth is divided by 2 billion. kr to the municipalities and NOK 0,5 billion. kr to counties. There is a scheme of government now agreeing with the Socialist Left Party on. The municipalities will then have a total growth in free income of 4.5 billion. kr next year. It gives the local government an increased economic space of 3 billion. In addition to increasing the cost of demographic, pension and educational and child care expenditures and the mental health of young people, growth is expected to increase. The increase in the action space is greater than the total Solberg government achieved for the four years 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021. We're also reversing the Solberg government's proposed $300 million cut. kr in the grant for resource-intensive services. This will strengthen the economy of municipalities and enable them to provide better services to citizens who are entitled to comprehensive health and care services. The budget ceiling for 2022 does not solve all the challenges in municipalities. Priority will continue to be needed between different needs, focus on innovation and innovation and good financial management in order to maximise the range of funds. It's always been like that, and it's always going to be like that. But that the budget line for 2022 represents a significant increase for the local economy, there can be no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1258	I thank you for your answer. The June website of the Center Party says: ‘It is the municipal politicians who have to leave schools or post several hospitals. The reality is that the Storting promises services, but does not grant the money needed for a good offer." When, in his former job as CS manager, the Council of State communicated its expectations to the state budget for 2022, he said he expected an increase in free revenues of 3 billion. kr. Now it seems that state council Gram is satisfied with an increase of 2.8 billion. kr. I noticed that the Council of State said that an increase of 4.5 billion had been made. NOK, but let's remind ourselves that $500 million. kr of these are tied up to compensation for public transport and part of it is to reverse the point of entry for resource-intensive services. That's good, but it's not a growth in free income. Is the Council of State Gram still in agreement with KS-led Gram, or the Council of State now believes that the municipal sector, including the municipality of Hadsel, should be doing well without these 200 million. kr in increased income?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1270	With regard to the description of the growth of free income, I cannot entirely agree with that. It's not about compensation for public transport. There are things that come in addition. Now what we're talking about in terms of the 4.5 billion. kr, are the two billion that were contained in the original budget of the Solberg Government, and then it is added to $2.5 billion. kr at the top of it from the new Workers' Party-Center Party administration. When you correct for what is related to the cost growth of pensions, demography and a part of free money – but with a label, to put it like that – you're left with a total of 3 billion. kr in increased economic space. It differs significantly from the budget lines we have seen in recent years. I want to say we met quite well in relation to the expectations of the KS a few months ago. I think we have been delivered usefully for a few months' work in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1275	For the village of Hadsel, this is serious. The current municipal economy means the closure of kindergarten and school, the closure of the medical office, the fire service, the kitchen and laundry at the age centre, the reduction of care provision, the privatisation of roads and the closure of road lights. And we know, unfortunately, that Hadsel is not the only municipality in Norway that has to cut, reduce and not least centralize the offerings made to its citizens in 2022, despite the fact that the Central Party is in government. Can the Council of State, for the future, say that he and his government will work to ensure that our municipalities and counties in the future will have even greater economic space in the coming state budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1282	It is absolutely a goal for this government and this council of states to ensure a good local economy in the future – which provides space for action and provides opportunities to strengthen services close to people around the country. No matter what kind of budget you have, there will be challenges around the municipality of Norway. It is therefore the responsibility of each municipality to ensure good financial management, to make wise priorities and to balance the relationship between operation and investment, for example. Not least we need, and I'll say across the sector, also looking at how we get more out of the heads we have after all. There is a need for innovation, digitisation and the necessary change and transformation that will enable us to solve challenges in the future. Even if we have enough money, it's not safe we have enough people. Therefore, it is an important focus for me to focus on the development potential in the local and public sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1292	‘The representative of the Labour Party Per Vidar Kjølmoen has claimed that the ferry prices are now cut by 50 pst, both in the media and on the website of More and Romsdal Arbeidarparti. Can the Council of State document what the Labour Party’s Depositary Representative claims, and what will be the actual percentage cut in the ferry prices in January 2022 compared to the government’s submission on 31 December 2021?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1299	The Hurdal Platform states that the government aims to halve the ferries tariffs in total over the four-year period. Then we use the comparison basis on 1 January 2021, and it is the state that is going to cover the costs. Let us therefore have the tariff level that was in force on 1 January 2021, as a starting point for different comparisons, as I now do in my answer. In the budget proposal for 2022, the Solberg Government decided to reverse parts of the 25 p.m. tariff reduction introduced from 1 July 2021. This would result in an increase in ferry tariffs by 12.7 pst. at New Year’s. With our proposal to adjust the budget for 2022, it was suggested that the ferry tariffs should be reduced by 11.7 pst. in the new year of national road ferries, and provision is made to enable county municipalities to reduce the rates corresponding to those of the county road ferries. Then the fares will be 30 pst. lower for travellers than they were on 1 January 2021. By doing so, we have taken a significant step towards achieving the objective of the Hurdal platform, namely to halve the ferry tariffs over the four-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1308	Most people are busy with real cuts in vacation prices. I understand what the Council of State says is that one has calculated it from 1 January 2021, but what people are busy about is what the ferry prices are from one year to another based on a budget. When the council then assumes that it is 11.7 pst. Cut from 2021 to 2022, the question to the Council is whether he agrees with that 11.7 p.m. is not entirely in line with the claims of the representative of the Workers' Party in More and Romesdal, that a now cuts 50 pst. There's something about how people perceive what we're saying.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1313	I would like to say that I have not realized that someone has expressed themselves unexplained about the goal of the government. Our goal is to achieve a reduction of 50 pst. during the four-year period, and we have started from 1 January 2021 as a basis for comparison. It has also been done by all the other parties, and it has been done in the Storting in the previous debates. Overall, we are moving significantly towards achieving this goal by now facilitating a reduction of 30 pst. measured against 1 January 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1318	It is also in the proposal of the new government – in the package of holiday prices – to talk about free ferry services to island communities. Representatives from the Central Party in More and Romesdal have been told that one has received a signal that one cannot fully compensate for the cuts in transfers to the County Municipality. When a free ferry goes to the island communities, the ticket revenue will disappear, and with it a large part of the income of the county. The question is: are the county municipalities compensated for the lost income they receive by introducing a free ferry to island communities, which is otherwise good? It is important that county municipalities are compensated. So is the loss of income compensated?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1325	It's a system that we've just started working on, how we're going to set it up, but it's a prerequisite that when we, as a big community, as a state, go in and say we're going to implement such arrangements, we also have to be involved in picking up the bill for it. So the representative Sve also knows that it's not always that the individual county council gets exactly the coverage as the big community draws the picture, but it's a different discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1333	In the morning today, in the oral Question Time, there was a lot of focus on power, and my question is closely related to the focus that was before today: ‘The world needs Norwegian oil and gas, even from a 1.5-degree perspective, the IEA Chief Fatih Birol stated on 30 November. In the government's budgetary unity with the Socialist Left Party it is established that there will be no 26th concession round on Norwegian pedestal in 2022. The vice-president of the Workers' Party, Hadia Tajik, spoke to the press on 11 September ‘The Labour Party believes that the oil sector now needs stability and predictability’. Does the Council of State believe that when the 26th concession round on a Norwegian base is dropped in 2022, it gives the oil and gas industry predictability?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1342	The government will further develop the Norwegian petroleum industry. The petroleum sector is a highly productive industry that contributes to high incomes, value creation and jobs in Norway. The government will facilitate the continued high level of activity on Norwegian soil, and land-based ring-effects will benefit the whole country. The government will pursue a responsible and predictable policy in response to the climate challenges, and also in relation to petroleum policy. An important feature of the regulation of activities is predictability and evidence-based assessments. This is also an important competitive advantage for Norway. Authorities own the resources, but use industry to create the highest possible values. In order to achieve the objectives of the petroleum policy, it is essential that the State regulates the sector by setting clear and predictable frameworks that give companies the self-interest in creating the greatest possible value for the Community. The ordinary concession system for the sector shall be permanent. The concession rounds are at the core of this. These grant oil companies new permits to search for oil and gas in the areas open and accessible for petroleum activities. All areas open to petroleum activities and available for new allocations may be illuminated in a concession round. The budgetary agreement with SV does not affect this. The illumination of the various prospective areas is determined by what is most appropriate from a petroleum professional assessment. In most of the open land available on the Norwegian continental shelf, there has been exploration activity for decades. The areas are now mature and are therefore subject to the TFO concession rounds. Therefore, exploration activities and new land allocations will take place mainly within the predefined areas during this scaling-up period. The firmness of the concession system means, among other things: that the government will implement new concession rounds. We will continue the TFO system as practised today, both in 2022 and beyond. The budgetary agreement with SV indicates that any 26th concession round will not be announced in 2022. It doesn't mean more or less than just this. In the last eight years, there have been three numbered concession rounds; in 2015, 2017 and 2021. Petroleum policy, the framework for activities and balances with other social conditions have been subject to thorough assessments and evaluations in the EEA over several decades. How we as a state and resource owner ensure that we get to explore all of our open, accessible and prospective areas most appropriate, we will come back to many times. The oil and gas industry will continue to face framework conditions that will provide Norway with income, jobs and ring-fences in the mainland.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1357	The power crisis Europe is experiencing, and its impact on electricity prices shows that Europe needs more Norwegian gas. We hope it will be better when the new gas pipeline from Norway via Denmark to Poland is completed. Norway is now regarded as a stable gas supplier, and it is important that attractive land is made available to ensure the necessary production. The energy crisis we are experiencing now shows that Europe will be dependent on Norwegian gas for a long time. My follow-up question is: Will the government facilitate and ensure that the regular TFO rounds now provide the industry with the search areas needed to secure and expand its output, especially in the gas sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1364	We shall continue to grant permits to search for oil and gas in the areas already open and available for petroleum activities. The pre-defined areas, TFO, are currently covering most of the open, available search area on Norwegian base, and the TFO system is continued as it is practised today, both in 2022 and beyond. The Norwegian petroleum policy is firm. As I said in my previous reply, the budget agreement with SV shows that a possible 26th concession round will not be announced in 2022. So the budget agreement means that there won't be a numbered round 26 in 2022 – neither more nor less than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1371	When the budgetary unit with the government was finished on 29 November, SV said that they had now received the greenest government budget of the time. On the same day, Prime Minister Støre said to the evening post that they ‘consider this to be a budget that clearly amounts to cutting more’ than the Solberg government’s budget proposal. When you have asked how this budget actually cuts more greenhouse gas emissions than the Solberg government's proposal, the debate often shows and answers to an increase in the CO 2 tax for the oil industry by 28 pst. So my question is, can the Minister of Oil and Energy do well for what is the emission effect in 2022 of increasing the CO 2 tax for the oil industry to 28 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1384	That very question is probably a little outside the original question related to the framework conditions of the petroleum industry. But when that is said, I share the opinion that I also believe the questioner implicitly has, namely that Norwegian gas is an important part of the energy transition that is taking place in Europe, where Norwegian gas replaces CO 2 -intensive coal power. That is why I believe that Norwegian oil and gas also have an important part to play in the transition the world is facing, for a long time to come. It was also the starting point for the representative Ove Trellevik’s question, namely whether Norwegian oil and gas even in a 1.5 degree perspective have a place. That said, it is also important to take into account that demand for Norwegian oil and gas will fall, and that is what is happening, among other things. is also a cut in CO 2 emissions at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1400	‘Infection protection measures require an increased degree of testing. On 1 December, there was an hour and a half queue at a test station in Oslo. Long journeys to test centres outside major cities are reported. There are low-staffing challenges in the test centres, and free-of-charge distribution points are empty. In the pharmacy, it costs 550 kroner for a pack of hottests. This makes testing a major cost item for people. What is done to enable municipalities to ensure access to free tests, including both home and PCR tests?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1407	Municipalities are making enormous efforts to deal with the pandemic, both in terms of testing, vaccination and infection tracking, and not least in order to provide good and sound services to our citizens. Testing is central to control the pandemic. The municipalities are asked to have standing standby to test 1 pst. by the population, and within five days, they shall be able to increase capacity up to 5 pst. by the population. Then we know that several municipalities, like Oslo, have had to increase their capacity to over 5 pst. Now. I am pleased that the municipalities are able to do so. The government has always been clear that the municipalities will have to cover the costs of the TISK work, and I would like to emphasise that again. Self-testing is a useful tool for municipalities. The Health Directorate has provided guidance on how to prioritize use, so that the tests are used where they are most effective. At the same time, municipalities are given the opportunity to do their own priorities within the Directorate's guidelines. This means that municipalities with major outbreaks prioritise self-tests for regular testing in schools, while other municipalities prioritise use for people with respiratory symptoms. This means that the self-tests are used as appropriately as possible in each municipality. By Christmas we will receive about 10 million more tests. The Health Directorate simplifies the broadcasting solutions and will now send tests to the municipalities without the local authorities having to make active orders themselves. The Government proposes in the bill on changes in the State budget, Prop. 20 S, a 1-billion-billion-dollar commission. kr to acquire more self-testing. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has already commissioned the Health Directorate to initiate the procurement process, subject to the approval of the Storting. But there's a lot of demand for these tests worldwide, so we have to make sure that the tests we have are properly prioritised.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1422	It is reassuring to hear that we have enough self-tests – contrary to what we have read in some media lately. But the issue of availability is equally relevant, because when you report up to three hours of cows in Oslo and Bergen and it is also reported that there is quite a long way to travel to the test centres and large geographical variations, and when home tests are not available to everyone, and you have to drive quite a long, driving a car because it is not easy to get there, there is reason to worry about whether economic and geographic factors play a role for who gets tested and how often you get tested. The question is, can the Council of State assure us that availability will be at such a high and stable level, both in the districts and in the cities, that everyone who needs it will be tested when they need to test themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1429	I share the concerns of the representative. It is also important to say that the test capacity is not infinite, although we have good capacity in the municipalities and municipalities have shown that they can quickly scale up that capacity. We have a good supply of self-testing. This week, 1.5 million tests are sent out to the municipalities. So we no longer have any layers to talk about, it's distributed continuously. With increasing infective pressure, there could be waiting time for tests both at the border, where testing is required now, and at test stations. Unfortunately, it will not be such that one can expect to get free self-testing without limit. It's also important to be honest.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1434	One thing is self-testing – we know that self-testing has limited both capacity and function, so that testing centres also play an important role. We know that the municipalities have scaled up and down and have the opportunity to do so. My question is really about these test stations, where there are long queues, and there are more that also have shorter opening times now than they've had before, and there are also more that have to run longer than they did before. So the availability is less than it has been in the pandemic in some areas – and in other areas not. The question is – if we think about the T in TISK – whether the Council of State is satisfied with the testing capacity and availability also in the case of test stations, where PCR tests can be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1439	The municipalities have delivered what they have been assigned to test capacity. We have now launched a new action package, in addition to the fact that some municipalities themselves choose mass testing. Here in Oslo, they've done it in the schools. The capacity of PCR tests, where you have to go to a station to get a test sent in to a laboratory, is good, but we also see that increased access increases pressure and waiting time. So far, I'd say I'm impressed by the municipalities. Now we're just in a shift where there might be a little bit more waiting time, because we're adjusting the other measures, and we have a very high infection. So our job is to be professionally concerned, to make sure that things are going well, and to ensure access to the tools the municipalities need to do their job.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1447	‘The Government has as its central point, and underlined during the presentation of the Hurdal Platform, that ‘the time for overrun of communities is over’. The metropolitan government in Oslo has by a large majority said no to a new giant hospital in Gaustad. If the city council maintains its resistance to the new giant hospital in Gaustad, will the government comply with the decision of the Oslo City Council?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1454	The government wants the population of Groruddalen to have the local hospital at Nye Aker Hospital as soon as possible, and we will implement changes in the hospital structure in Oslo according to agreed plans. It is the State that has the overall responsibility for providing the population with the necessary specialist health services. At the same time, the plan for New Oslo University Hospital has been implemented in dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo. In the consultation round for the OUS Idea phase in 2014, the Municipality of Oslo pointed to Aker as an alternative to Ullevål for the location of a local hospital and advised against a collection at Ullevål. In January 2016, the City Council of Oslo recommended the extension model adopted later that year. In 2018 as well, Oslo City Supported the current development solution in consultation responses to regional development plan 2035 for Health South-East. I would therefore like to stress that at the time when the structure was at the hearing, Oslo Municipality had crucial input related to the final solution. This solution has Health South-East stuck to. Among other things, they have concluded an agreement with Oslo on a new medical guard at Aker as a result. Realisation of the New Rikshospitalet is of national importance. The proportion of OUS activities, consisting of national, multiregional and regional functions, is estimated to be 55-60 pst. of the somatic activity. One crucial factor is that it is important that Oslo does not confiscate more professionals than is necessary. By pooling functions, a loose duplication of specialists, nurses, radiographers, etc. may occur. In other words, the profits are linked to the expansion of Gaustad, which will bind fewer professionals in Oslo to the benefit of the rest of the country. The benefits associated with the collection of national and regional functions are also one of the supporting elements for the profit-making and economic sustainability of the OUS development plans, including New Aker. It has been a crucial moment that Health South-East can implement the expansion plans in Oslo without doing so at the expense of other hospitals and hospital projects in Health South-East.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1465	The City Council in Oslo has decided that they are going against these plans, and I believe Oslo City Council is even today in the process of making a decision that is contrary to the plans of Gaustad. They do not want to split up the professional environments that are currently co-located on Ullevål, between Gaustad and Aker. What they want is to further develop the emergency function on Ullevål and make sure that New Aker Hospital can finally become a local hospital for the whole Grorud valley, which was also taken up by the Council of State, including the three northernmost districts. I hear from the Council of State that the government at all has not intended to listen to the City Council of Oslo. Then my question is, what separates Oslo from other communities? Why does the Council of State not want to listen to local democracy in Oslo in this matter? What makes Oslo not a society that the government doesn't want to outrun?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1472	It is a description which must be borne by the representative. There is no difference between Oslo and other municipalities, but when the state changes the hospital structure also in other municipalities, it does so through its role as the owner of the specialist healthcare service. Oslo Municipality is planning authority, and I hope and expect the Municipality of Oslo, as a planning authority, to make planning assessments relating to the New OUS development project. Over a number of years, the Municipality of Oslo has had consultation input into the New OUS process, which consists of a total of five construction projects. There is the direction in which the new hospital evolves, well anchored professionally through which you put what functions, and I described that in the first answer to my representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1479	At the same time, the Council of State placed emphasis on the Groruddalen and Aker as a local hospital in Groruddalen. With the plans now available, only Alna is entering Aker Hospital during the first stage of construction. Grorud and Stovner must wait for other construction steps. I believe the next stage of construction has not yet been planned or adopted. It is most uncertain whether and if Grorud and Stovner can move out of Aarhus, which has already exploded capacity today. I am also listening to the State Councils in connection with the regulatory plan, which is an important matter as a regulatory plan in Oslo. Both with the gigantic volumes of Gaustad and with regard to cultural memory protection and natural values there, it doesn't at all fit into the regulatory plans you have. What is most important to the Council of State? Is it to lay Ullevål, or is it to listen to Oslo and give Groruddalen a local hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1486	What is important for this government is to give patients in Oslo access to new hospital buildings. They have the oldest hospitals in the country, and it's not an appropriate way to provide the health care of the future. The Hurdal Platform, which is to be implemented by this government, states that: ‘Make sure that the entire population of Groruddalen receive local hospital services at Nye Aker Hospital as soon as possible and implement changes to the hospital structure in Oslo according to agreed plans’. That's what we're going to do. As far as the regulatory plans are concerned, it is primarily something that sortes constitutionally under another state council, but I expect the Municipality of Oslo to make its judgements as a planning authority, and then it will follow the process naturally as it is to be built on these properties.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1503	‘The management group at the Hospital for Mental Health and Addiction at Oslo University Hospital warns against co-location in Aker, as the plans for the facility are inappropriate for the patient group for which they are responsible. They have given clear notice of this to the management of Oslo University Hospital, and they are asking for the plans to be stopped. The government has said that they will bet on psychiatry, drug addiction and prevention. How can the Council of State feel that this effort is reflected in the plans now in place to move mental health protection from Gaustad to new Aker?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1510	There are treatments in both Gaustad and Ullevål for mental health protection. Both sites are old and slightly adapted to the requirements of modern treatment and a good working environment. There is therefore a need for upgraded construction for this patient group. There are two main arguments underlying a collection of Aker. Firstly, mental health and addiction should be co-located with somatics. There is a recognised under-use of somatic health services, and excess somatic disease mortality has also been demonstrated for this patient group. Furthermore, over time mental health protection and alcohol have moved from asylum in the country to more and more integration into the rest of society. It involves urbanisation and densely built struts. In town it will be noise from the city. I want to show you here that Lovisenberg Hospital runs an excellent mental health service, with Ring 2 as its nearest neighbour. Health South-East reports that the leadership group in mental health protection at Oslo University Hospital has never asked for plans to be stopped. They have advised Oslo University Hospital to assess other locations for parts of the establishment. Health South-East states that collecting functions on Aker means that the location of some units is not completely optimal and that other units are not entirely satisfied. In this context, I am concerned that Health South-East has a specific assessment of the location of the long-term sites. At the same time, new areas and new operational opportunities in new premises are also important. Although not everyone can have their first choice in terms of location on Aker, the plans facilitate a strengthened and forward-looking treatment provision in the field of mental health protection. It will also provide a better working environment for employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1527	The area of mental health and addiction treatment is on the rise. The Oslo Medical Association writes in its recording to Health South-East plans that the projections of capacity needs seem to be too low. They indicate that the plot on Aker has no room for further expansion. There is therefore a high risk of under-dimension in both the short and long term. They also believe that the plans do not reflect the knowledge we have today about what is good hospital building in psychiatry. The Norwegian Association of Nurses at the Clinic for Mental Health and Addiction, Berit Averstad, said to the evening post last year that ‘Aker’s position makes it impossible to activate patients well enough.’ She points out that the location leads to a lot of noise, and that these are patients who need peace and get out at least once a day. Then it's a terrible shame that there's such a long distance from parks, fields and other nature. So much indicates that it is built too small and too bad. Does the Council of State — despite warnings from doctors and other professionals — believe that today’s plans meet the needs of the future in the area of mental health and addiction treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1536	New Aker hospitals and the development of mental health protection, co-located with the somatic environment, will mean a major boost for this patient group. Today, the activities related to mental health protection in the OUS are spread at 40 different addresses in Oslo. Collecting and co-localizing with somatic products will pay for exactly what I mentioned in my first post: the under-covering of somatic healthcare for this patient group, which also leads to an excess mortality. I replied very clearly that regarding the location of long-term locations, Health South-East should make a special assessment. There may be patients who thrive better in rural environments, but there are ongoing assessments. Quality assurance is also required for the dimensioning of future needs. What is important now is that there will be no more postponements for the patients in Oslo, but that they will have new, modern hospital buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1545	As the plans are now, Health South-East has estimated that the number of days spent in mental health protection in Oslo should be reduced by 25 pst. – although the population is expected to increase. This means that Aker is cut into the operating budget for the day-to-day activities in the field of mental health protection in order to pay off the buildings — instead of being able to provide patients with the necessary daily accommodation. Building down mental health protection has the potential to cost society expensive in the form of longer health messages and more disabled people. In addition, it has major negative consequences for each individual patient. Psychiatric health costs $70 billion. kr this year, according to the National Audit Office's report from spring. Is the reduction of mental health protection a source of funding for New Oslo University Hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1552	This must be a misunderstanding. The New OUS plans are a strengthening of mental health protection for these patients. The Hurdal platform also refers to an escalation plan for the entire mental health field – we intend to implement it – where we will look specifically at the reduction of daily places, which has been a continuous trend in the last 20 years. Good and professionally sound mental health protection must be exercised in new modern buildings. I am very concerned that we have progressed in these projects – if not the patients in Oslo will lose again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1560	‘In Health South-East they have established a practice where individual hospitals do not themselves need to save up to 30 pst. equity to initiate new projects. Instead, they can borrow savings from other hospitals. The scheme has been used both at Aarhus, in Eastfold and now in the West Viken. Also in the gigantic projects of Oslo University Hospital, it is planned to use savings from other hospitals. Does the Council of State consider this to be a sustainable and stable financing mechanism that contributes to the launching of necessary investments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1567	Regional health establishments shall provide good specialist health services in their region and are responsible for implementing operations and investments within the annual appropriations of the Storting. The annual appropriations shall cover hospital costs — including investment costs. In hospital accounts, investment costs are shown as depreciation. Health South-East has totaled around 4 billion depreciation costs. kr. These costs are non-feasible costs, i.e.: the liquidity associated with this part of the appropriations is used to pay for new investments, saving for future investments and debt repayment. It is also this part of the appropriations that is the basis for the internal lending scheme of Health South-East. All health establishments in the region contribute to the liquidity of the scheme. The funds are saved over time in Health South-East and used to co-finance common regional priorities in hospital buildings and ICT. Health South-East has established a balance with the individual health establishments in the region. In implementing a joint regional priority building project, a health undertaking shall have access to its own claim and the possibility to borrow from the scheme. The amortisation of internal loans takes place through the annual retention of liquidity. The scheme is in place to raise regional priority projects and create predictability related to the priority projects. Other health regions have also established internal arrangements for lifting major investment projects. The schemes facilitate the faster realisation of large investment projects than would otherwise have been possible. I would also like to add that Oslo University Hospital has previously contributed to the realisation of priority projects in other parts of the health region and has significant amounts outstanding under the regional loan scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1582	One of the reasons why the Left is skeptical about the plans for New Oslo University Hospital is that it's so expensive, and that the OUS doesn't have enough equity. This will make the economy of the new hospital weak. The cost of wages is, of course, a major cost item in hospitals. How much is the number of people in hospitals being reduced? Alternative: How much more efficient do the hospital staff have to work to finance the government's plans for Oslo's new hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1589	I've answered a number of questions today related to the future's OYS. The most important thing is to take care of patients. That they receive good treatment in modern premises will also be greatly appreciated by professionals. OUS – or Oslo – has the oldest hospital buildings in Norway. It's not a forward-looking way to treat patients. Rather, my concern is about how to use the specialists available at all times as a service, and in Oslo, there is a situation where this can be better coordinated by bringing together regional functions. The rest of the country is screaming for some specialists that they can't get hold of, and there's no good argument that Oslo is going to run inappropriately in old hospital buildings, with an excess of professionals that the rest of the country needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1596	High efficiency means, in practice, reduced manning. Given that so much of the expenses in a hospital are paid, it is necessary to cut staff at Oslo University Hospital due to weak economy. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to provide health professionals from the rest of the country — who live in a rural environment, as the Council of State was in a previous round — which would, in turn, pose a major problem where there is also a lack of health professionals? And if the project in the OUS becomes more expensive than planned, or the described gain cannot be realised, will it not affect other necessary investments in the health region?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1601	I am assured of the sustainability of Health South-East in implementing their planned investments. Here we have planned for – I would say – several decades how a future hospital structure should look like for the people of Oslo. It is time for Oslo’s population to have modern hospital buildings. It's time for professionals to get a modern environment to meet patients in. It is also time to better coordinate regional functions in the capital, where distances are short, so as to contribute better to a more even distribution of specialists throughout the country, where the lack of special skills is a challenge. Among other things, in the representative of Skjelstad's own home state, where we both come from, it has something to say about how the specialists are used in the areas where the distances are short.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1610	‘In the budgetary agreement between the Government and the Socialist Left, the following verbal proposals were agreed: ‘By March 2022, the Government is asked to set up a public body to determine how commercial operations can be phased out in various tax-funded welfare services. [...]’» Can the Council of State explain what welfare services this will apply in the health sector?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1617	There is agreement between the government parties and the SV to reduce a public sample to determine how commercial operations can be phased out in different tax-funded welfare services and to provide a separate zero profit model for each such sector. The committee shall also propose a legal definition for non-profit-making modes of operation. The government has not taken a decision on the details of this investigation, including the mandate of the public body. I am referring to the reduction of the public sector body by March 2022. It is therefore far too early to say something more specific about the investigation. The government will decide on any proposals after the selection has been submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1624	I understand that the mandate is not yet in place, but I still expect the Council of State to know in which areas in our own sector we use private welfare providers. That is really the point of the question, because we use private and private capacity in quite a number of areas of health, and therefore it is also relevant to hear just how widespread this use is. The reason why I ask is that I'm concerned that such a phase-out will be at the expense of the offer we give to our patients. This is used both nationally and externally in municipalities to relieve the burden on municipal services, so the question remains. I wonder if the Council of State agrees that such a phase-out could be at the expense of the patient's offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1629	The question raised by the representative of Bruflot was whether the Council of State could explain what welfare services this would apply in the health sector. This is a budgetary settlement to which the Storting joined in the financial debate last Thursday. Unfortunately, from the last Thursday until today, this Council of State has been doing quite different things, so I am asking for an understanding that I have no distribution at all on the mandate of this sample. It is well known which services the health sector receives from private suppliers. It's e.g. laboratory services. We also have parts of the treatment piece that are solved through tenders that health care businesses prioritise on the basis of their framework. The entire fixed medical system is a business model — the majority of it — so we have an integral part of the private sector in public health.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1636	First, I would like to say that I have a great deal of understanding and respect for the job that the Minister for Health is doing today, and I have a great deal of understanding that the mandate is not clear. But the worry is that we can once again get a situation where those who can afford it can buy themselves out of a queue and get a place at private places, while everyone else stays in a queue, which also doesn't get much shorter, because you don't use private capacity even if it exists. The anxiety is there anyway. The point of the question is to make it visible that it is being used in quite a number of areas in the health sector. My question – which I hope is an understanding that I am saying despite the fact that we are in a difficult situation with the corona – will nevertheless be how the Council of State will prevent such a division in the health sector from taking place if we phase out the private sector, which, after all, we use to a great extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1641	I can more than answer that. This government believes that preventing a two-part healthcare service is the main way we do it is by investing in our common healthcare – a strong public health service that is present throughout the country where people live, with closeness and good quality when you need health care. You also interact with private people to achieve that. That's what this government thinks is going to happen through agreements, and then we have some other arrangements. We have the contract specialists in the specialist health service, we have the fixed medical system, and we have a number of deliveries that our community health service takes out in a private home market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1649	«When Oslo University Hospital started the process of possible expansion in Gaustad, the development possibilities were surveyed. Now it is planned to build 240,000 sqm on an area that is intended to accommodate from 14000 to a maximum of just over 100000 sqm. It shall be built on all sides of today's facility, all while the hospital must be fully operational and more efficient year by year. How can the Council of State feel that this is a good project that takes account of expected population growth and the possibility of further enlargements?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1656	Health South-East has stated that according to approved plans for the development of the New Rikshospitalet, new buildings corresponding to 141 000 m 2 are planned. This area shall be established at the current entry point and in the area between today's rickshospital and Gaustad hospital. So the new building mass will be concentrated primarily in the southern part of today's Reichshospital. The concept involves a close integration between new and existing building masses, so that the new hospital becomes a functional hospital with short distances in a compact building mass. It ensures good patient safety and effective operation. In addition, the possibility of subsequent extensions has been included in the regulatory plan. It is designed for further expansion on today's parking lot at Ring 3 and on the site of the university. It facilitates further, future development of research, teaching and clinical activities in line with the intentions of Oslo Science City. In addition, the regulatory plan provides for extensions in the north with lower stand-alone construction. In sum, this new building means approx. 87 000 m 2 in later stages. In addition to this, the use of the premises associated with Gaustad Hospital, which account for approx. 40,000 m 2. New Rikshospitalet and Gaustad will become a regional hospital with the collection of regional functions and a certain volume of local hospital functions. It provides a model of activity similar to that of the other regional hospitals in Norway. Health South-East emphasises that it is not desirable for the regional hospital to become too large. That is why it is also planned to establish a large local hospital in Aker in addition to the regional hospital. The deacon home Hospital and Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital should also be strengthened as a local hospital for their neighbourhoods. Together with an upgraded radium hospital, this will provide a robust and forward-looking solution for hospital services in Oslo and in the rest of the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1674	I hear the answer to the Council of State. Nevertheless, the Municipality of Oslo itself is clear in its concern that Health South-East underestimates the capacity needs, especially for the local hospital function in Oslo, and they have expressed, as the regulatory plan was in consultation, that it could lead to risks for both the municipality and its inhabitants in terms of both capacity, transfer of tasks and costs. There has been great resistance to this expansion. The critics are often met with statements like: now we've been on for so long that we have to get on, now this is adopted, we can't start again. At the same time, there is one thing that has such a huge economic and health impact that I think it should also be a question of how many assumptions that can change over time, before you let go of looking at the plans again. It was originally planned to build a lid over Ring 3, for example. That won't be possible. What is it that the Council of State takes a step back and looks with new eyes at how we can build hospitals in Oslo that people and health workers actually want?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1683	The people of Oslo deserve new hospital buildings. Oslo has the oldest hospitals in the country. Professionals have some of the worst environments in the country to do modern patient treatment. We're in a hurry. I have to say that now the Left has delivered several questions here with great resistance to already adopted hospital plans. The left has been a government party for several years. The left has had plenty of opportunity to put a foot in the ground if you thought this wasn't forward-looking and right. It is the setting of a government in which the Left has sat. The Storting has decided to keep progress in these plans. I just don't think it's very credible. I am very concerned that these plans should go after adopted progress. If not, it will involve new postponements, and it is the patients in Oslo and the professionals who are losing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1692	The left has always been clear both locally and nationally that we do not want this big new hospital in Gaustad. We want to develop Ullevål further. That's what we fought for when we were in government, and we're also fighting for that now when we're in opposition. Another current debate we are having is about the intensive capacity of Norwegian hospitals. I think we all agree that it needs to be increased. The games in Oslo warn that the new hospital will offer Oslo an undersized offer. We already know that. So the pandemic has shown us that in an emergency situation, having sufficient intensive capacity is an absolute prerequisite for society to function normally. The construction sites on Aker and Gaustad are already planned to be fully developed, there is no room for extensions later, but this government has promised to expand the intensive capacity. Wouldn't it have been better to build a new hospital on a large plot, such as Ullevål, where there is plenty of room to build a hospital that actually meets future needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1701	We intend to strengthen the intensive capacity. It's in the Hurdal platform. The intensive capacity is about construction and premises to treat very sick people, but it is primarily about enough professionals. The current situation is that there are quite a number of intensive nurses who are soon ready for the ranks of pensioners. We have a lot to do in terms of training specialist nurses. Not a single year – not one of the eight years – the Solberg government managed to achieve its own candidate goals for specialist nurses. We have a big aftermath. It's about staff and equipment, it's actually less about physical construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1709	«In an interview with Finansavisen on 18 November, I read that the Council of State announces that the government is considering increasing state ownership of individual companies, but also selling off to others. What company is involved in sales, and what company is involved in government purchases?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1716	In the Hurdal platform, the government decides that state ownership should be developed and strengthened in the conversion of the Norwegian economy. My clear mandate in the government is to pursue an active industrial policy, where we facilitate increased employment, increased exports and increased speed in the green shift. We're going to cut greenhouse gas emissions with both hands, while creating new jobs. In that work, I am willing to use all the tools I have available to get it, including state ownership. Private ownership is and will be the starting point of Norwegian business, but we are clear that state ownership can be used where this is the best tool. The Hurdal Platform stresses that in some areas it is essential that state ownership is used to ensure national control. Especially where we have special energy and natural resources and important infrastructure. Then we open at the same time so that the state can establish or buy into companies in other areas where it is of strategic interest to the country. I am dedicated to finding the best solutions also within state ownership. I have a pragmatic view of state ownership and will use it where it is the best tool to achieve what the government wants. It's too early now to say something about which companies it might be relevant to increase ownership, or where we'll consider entering as the owner or selling us down. It requires thorough assessments, it has to be done properly and properly, and I'm concerned about the whole thing, what's most effective to achieve the government's goal. That is why we have started working on a new ownership message to develop ownership policy. It is going to the Stortinget, with respect for the Stortinget, and the purpose of this work is, among other things, looking at how state capital and ownership can contribute to just increased exports, new green value chains and more profitable jobs. In the process of new ownership announcement, we will also assess the rationale for state ownership of all companies in the portfolio. Until the new ownership message is ready, I have assumed that today's sales mandates can be continued, without meaning that something will necessarily be sold. Then the government will normally ask the Storing for authority to establish or purchase itself in companies or sell themselves down, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1729	I thank you for your answer. After all, the Minister of Economic Affairs is not a single person in the Norwegian social debate, at least not when we talk about ownership. In fact, the Minister of Economic Affairs manages as much as one third of the total value of Oslo Børs, a total value of perhaps 1 000 billion. kr. Then every signal given by the Minister of Industry becomes important in these debates. I also notice that the Minister of Finance does not say that one should assess, but he says that the government is assessing, i.e. is doing these assessments. I want to start with a very specific question. In the election campaign, the Central Party leader, current Minister of Finance Trygve Slagsvold Vedum, warned that the Center Party is going in to increase the state's ownership of Hydro from today's 34 p.m. to 50.1 pst. The labor party was out there supporting the idea of the election campaign. Since both of today's government parties before the election announced that one would like to buy up in Hydro at 50.1 p.m., the government can confirm that Hydro is one of the specific companies where the government is considering buying up and not down? Or can he give other examples, since the assessments are already in progress?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1738	As I said, we will come back to this in a proper and proper way for the Storting in the work on the new ownership message. That work has begun. There we go through the state's justification for ownership of the different companies. We are assessing ownership policy and, of course, it must be properly anchored in the Storting. I am very concerned about the responsibility we have as a large owner. Ownership of the State shall be managed wisely. It must be predictable. We have interests in companies where there are other owners, and we've given no other signals than that we're working on a statement of ownership, that we have a view of ownership that means that we can consider going up and down and out of companies if there's no longer the same reason for ownership. As I said, the assessment of each company and the reasons for this is back in the new ownership notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1743	I thank you again for the answer and I am aware that the Council of State does not want to comment on a single company. But when one at the same time talks about a ownership message, I hope that the government will take seriously what is currently happening, namely that the government is giving extremely offensive signals about the importance of increased state ownership and, at the same time, is streaming to the tax screw around private Norwegian ownership, and even more so in the budgetary agreement that one has concluded with SV, without the same framework of foreign ownership. How we can work to strengthen the Norwegian ownership, including the private ownership, I hope to become a central part of such a message. A more general question: The Minister of Economic Affairs not only talked about buying up in companies, but also about entering as owners in new companies. Then the Minister of Industry is talking about buying the country as the owner of listed companies, i.e. trading on the stock exchange, or buying in non-listed companies. In the case of the latter, what principle will underlie it in the field of business, where there will probably be more companies that will then have a new state competitor over the night?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1750	I believe the representative and I fully agree on the importance of the proper and proper exercise of state ownership. Therefore, I think the representative also understands that I cannot comment on individual companies, and that we will come back to this in an appropriate way in the work on the ownership notification, and/or if there is a need for powers against Stortinget. Then I would like to stress a message I have repeated since I joined as Minister of Industry. It is my goal to mobilise as much private capital as possible for the green transformation of the Norwegian economy. We have a government budget that helps to mobilise 3 billion. In the case of increased green investment, mainly private capital. Private ownership is and will be the starting point of Norwegian business, but unlike the previous government, we do not have an explicit objective to reduce state ownership. We have a more pragmatic view of it and say that it should and can be used where it is appropriate to achieve the government's industrial policy, and we will come back to that in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1760	«The storm last week caused major damage to large forest areas. It's so massive destruction in, for example. Hedal in South Aurdal that if new extensive damage caused by race, floods and dense drains is to be avoided, the big community must contribute. Today's insurance system is not good enough for natural damage. Will the Council of State provide assistance to the most severely affected areas to save the wood and prevent other damage, and will the Council of State take the initiative to review the Forest Owners Insurance Scheme in the light of last week’s events?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1767	There is no doubt that the storm that occurred has led to a very severe situation in the parts of the country that have been affected. I must say that as Minister of Agriculture and Food I have been following the situation closely since the incident, and I have also been on an inspection in the area. The Directorate of Agriculture has already provided us with a good first overview of the challenges now facing forestry in the areas concerned. The first preliminary estimates show that it can be found above 1 million cubic metres of timber that blew down during the storm. It is now important to ensure that the values of the damaged forest areas are kept as high as possible and to ensure effective clean-up so as to reduce the risk of damage from secondary pests, for example: Granbar beetle. This work is already in progress. Forest damage caused by storms is covered by good and reasonable private insurance schemes. These cover costs by cleaning up and driving out stormy timber. They also cover the forest owner’s losses as a result of the timber being removed before the trees are fully matured. The State's natural damage regime may compensate for the costs of recovering damage to objects not covered by private insurance schemes. Therefore, the natural damage scheme does not cover the costs of storm damage to forests, but it covers damage to roads, bridges and agricultural land caused by natural damage. With regard to the clearing work for forest that has been blown down, this is primarily the responsibility of forest owners. This is also ensured by the fact that the municipality as a forestry authority may require forest owners to put in place measures necessary to remedy the damage. The forestry has a good apparatus to do this job. However, in the case of deforestation of non-economically viable windfalls, the natural damage regime may compensate forest owners for the necessary costs of deforestation. This assumes that cleaning has been ordered from the municipality. The State cannot or must not compensate for any damage or loss covered by the private insurance market. This would have undermined the basis for proper functioning of insurance schemes. The design of the non-life insurance scheme takes place primarily through interactions between the insurance companies and the industry itself. I already have a good dialogue with both industry and the forestry insurance company Skogbrand. I can also inform you that in a short time I will have a meeting with the industry about the damage situation in order to have a closer follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1778	It is very good to hear that the Council of State is taking action and following the situation closely. I am also aware that she has been visiting, which is very good. Part of the forest in the hardest hit areas is in very steep, wild terrain. There is little available and not available at all for forest machinery. There is also a lot of forest that is not driven – because there is either voluntary protection or other protection of forests. So the question is, will the government look at solutions for rapid clean-up now before it freezes, and before it gets meters of snow in the most accessible areas? It will save the big community for damage to infrastructure in the form of floods and races when it becomes ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1783	I very much agree with the representative's concerns, and we have started a work to get a quick clean-up. Now I am working to get an overview of the situation and will assess the need for any measures and instruments beyond what the insurance schemes currently cover. This may include, inter alia: to consider whether there is a need to allocate more of the means of road construction and operation in difficult terrain, where we see that, for example: is extra steep. I also have good contact with Skogbrand, i.e. the forest owners' insurance company, to get an overview of the situation, but it is clear that in order to prevent barking up to spring, effective cleaning is also important in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1790	That's good to hear. Barracks are a great concern if this stays lying, and they can quickly spread to the rest of the country. But I also worry about the game, because in these areas – ranging from Telemark through the Gulf to the Inland – there are very large areas that have rich biotopes, and it's a lot of wild. Now it's the game locked up; there's reason to assume that there's some dead animals around, and they can't move because it's just a battlefield. The question then is, Will the Council of State also contribute to mowing or clearing streets in the areas so that the animals can arrive, and that one contributes to the preservation of the valuable natural diversity that is there?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1795	The government is now working on getting an overview, but I would also like to say that there has been a lot of cleanup in the area already. So we know that there's a lot of mass left; we're now working on getting an effective extraction of it. It is also important to say that where this is absolutely most necessary — in the case of infrastructure-related masters — the job must be started first, and then an effective clean-up is needed to ensure that the natural diversity that exists in these areas can be managed quickly. But let me just make sure that we're very concerned about both what's going on, and not least what can be a big challenge – and where we've seen great challenges – namely, bark beetle. Now it's important to get an effective clean-up going, so that we don't get a situation to spring where we get a massive burst of bark beetle.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1803	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice and Defence: ‘The European Commission proposes to restrict the right to apply for asylum in Poland, Latvia and Lithuania as a result of the tense situation at the border with Belarus, which also threatens to destabilise Europe. Restrictions on the right to apply for asylum in that country may help to ensure that the flow of migrants finds the way to new border crossings. Does the Council of State consider the proposal of the European Commission to be relevant to Norwegian immigration policy and is she concerned that it can contribute to migration from Russia to Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1812	I am aware that on 1 December the Commission proposed some temporary practical and procedural relief for Poland, Lithuania and Latvia for the situation at the border with Belarus. The Commission's proposal includes, inter alia: to give countries better time to register asylum seekers. Today a period of three to ten days applies. In a situation where many arrive at once, it may be difficult to register everyone in a short time. The Commission will therefore extend the deadline to four weeks. Similarly, the Commission considers that reception requirements need to be adapted to the situation. They must focus on meeting the basic needs of applicants, while at the same time providing the necessary assistance to vulnerable applicants. Another key point is the Commission’s request for rapid border asylum procedures and rapid return. They want asylum applications to be dealt with within 16 weeks. More rapid asylum procedures at the external borders and rapid return are also proposed by the Commission in the context of the September 2020 Asylum and Migration Pact, but there is room to give priority to the rapid treatment of asylum cases even within the current system. So far, I cannot see that the Commission's proposals will have an impact neither on Norwegian immigration policy nor on migration from Russia to Norway. Rapid treatment of asylum applications is a priority for Norway for many years, through different schemes. The Norwegian approach has been that rapid handling of these cases has a preventative effect on arrivals in general. In addition, it can contribute to a reality orientation for many candidate groups. The rapid return of those who do not have a need for protection has been a priority in Norway because it contributes to the preservation of the asylum institution. Since Norway already has good arrangements for rapid treatment and return, measures in Poland, Latvia and Lithuania are unlikely to have a particularly significant impact on asylum arrivals in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1823	Thanks for the response and review of what is proposed by the Commission. To emphasise, one of the reasons why I ask is simply that some of the things that are speculating about it is that Belarus also contributes to this situation, simply to destabilise Europe. I'm glad that the Council of States per now doesn't see that there will necessarily have any impact on our borders. However, the Council of State is quite right that this must be seen in the context of the migration pact which the EU is also discussing and must decide that it is in a way also part of it. Does the Council of State participate in discussions, both on this issue from the Commission and on the whole migration pact to the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1828	Norway has more international cooperation on migration and immigration, and we also control our own immigration policy. With regard to the negotiations and the process going on around a migration pact in the EU, this is what we are following. There are still several things that have not been clarified and that we will come back to – how Norwegian positions should be – when the process has come further.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1833	To underline: I also fully agree that Norway should, of course, retain control over/with immigration policy. That's something we're probably in complete agreement on. Although the migration pact has now increased – that is what the Council of State says – it is a highly topical discussion that is now taking place in Europe. Is it that way, when the Council of State says that one should come back to it at a time when it has come further, that Norway has no position related to the discussions that are now taking place?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1838	The migration pact consists of different parts. Some are part of the cooperation we already have, others are not given that Norway should go into if there is nothing we want. There are things we have to decide when the time is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1846	«Section 104 of the Constitution obliges the child's best interests and the child's opinion before making his or her decisions. The fact that children’s legal certainty is better ensured in larger trade unions has a solid foundation in NOU 2017: 8, where it was assessed whether special courts should be established for children’s matters. In what way will the Council of State ensure that the best interests of the child are a fundamental consideration of the decisions to be made by the government in this matter, and will the Council of State ensure that Paragraph 104 of the Constitution is followed in the further process?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1853	I don't think it's so very surprising and new that of course I want to follow the Constitution in all the processes I'm doing. As far as the representative is concerned, the best interests of the child are fundamental to all actions and decisions affecting children. It follows not only the Constitution but also the Children's Convention, which applies as Norwegian law. Of course, the government will ensure that the basic consideration of the child's best is also taken care of in the further work on court structure, as we, of course, also have a look at children and children's best in all other matters. In line with the Hurdal platform, the government is committed to strengthening the courts so that they become less vulnerable. That is why we have already proposed in the supplementary budget for the State budget for 2022, and now also received as part of a budget agreement, that we want to increase the appropriations allocated to the courts in order to strengthen digitisation, but we have also set aside 20 million in concrete terms. NOK to employ several officials. It is a measure that will reduce the number of judges and strengthen the small courts. The measure will also include: contribute to the greater handling of child matters by officials rather than judges. There will be one of several measures that this government believes are important to strengthen the legal certainty of children also in a new court structure, where there will be changes in the judiciary. Then I am aware that more actors, including The Children’s Ombudsman has stated what they believe will be the importance of reintroducing the judicial structure before the judicial reform, including for child matters. Then I can also assure the representative that the government will take care of a good process. We want to involve the actors that are involved and who want to make recordings. In this respect, of course, I would also like to receive input from the Children's Ombudsman and others who need competence in children's matters and who want to say something about this. I believe that the legal certainty for children is much more than the size of the court and the structure of the court, and I also believe that legal certainty for children can be well maintained in a decentralised structure. There are other opportunities to ensure a high level of competence and good professional environments than to merge courts. There we disagree politically, quite simply, and we have been for a long time. The planning of further work on judicial structures is well under way in the ministry. What measures will be taken is something I will come back to at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1866	Thank you for your answer, which sounds good to me. I can ask a question about the Hurdals platform defining those to assess whether today's structure should be maintained, and it's judges, employees and municipalities. If it is the case that the Minister of Justice has the Basic Law § 104 at the bottom, why are not children or children’s spokesmen mentioned in the Hurdal platform?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1871	We're going to add up to a process that we think is good, which will provide the opportunity to illuminate a new structure, that is. to return to the previous court structure, in a good way, with input from different parts of the professional community, the Municipality of Norway and the Domstols-Norway. This government believes it is important just to listen to the width of the recordings, which the previous government did little; they chose to listen to some central leaders who wanted to centralize the courts. We believe that there may be important nuances and important input from both municipalities, from sorenists, from employees in the courts and also from other actors, such as the Children's Ombudsman and others involved in civil society, and that will be our process.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1876	Given all the heavy trade unions that now warn the government against reverse this reform, is my last question in this round of the Minister of Justice can guarantee that any reversal will be legally assessed against the Constitution § 104, and whether this assessment will be notified to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1881	I don't know if the representative insinuates that I'm going to break the Constitution. I believe that in that case is a completely wrong premise. I assume that this government will follow the Constitution in all cases, in line with what I expect the previous government to do, and I'll deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1886	There's Question Time left.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-08.ana.ud311e1900	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
