ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e88	There are three permissive applications: from representatives Lan Marie Nguyen Berg, Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde and Lars Haltbrecken on leave from 8 November to 11 November – all to participate in the 26th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change and the Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement, COP26, in Glasgow. The President proposes that these applications be dealt with immediately and be accepted – and see it as agreed. From the first alternate of Oslo, Sigrid Zurbuchen Heiberg, there is an application to be released from office in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Lan Marie Nguyen Berg, on the basis of parental leave. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: The application will be dealt with immediately and be accepted. The following alternates will be convened to meet during the leave period: For Oslo: Rauand Ismail and Michael Tetzschner For Sør-Trøndelag: Hilde Marie Gaebpie Danielsen
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e132	The representative, Freddy-André Øvstegård, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e137	On behalf of representatives Lars Haltbrecken, Marian Hussein and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to override the absence rule until further notice. I ask that the proposal be dealt with in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. that it be dealt with urgently because many schools are in the midst of an emergency situation. I also have the pleasure of promoting a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Kirsti Bergstø, Audun Lysbakken, Grete Wold and myself, on wage moderation for the highly paid in the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e144	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Case No. 1-3 is treated as a single agent.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e188	The President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e195	Measures and compensation schemes must last for the duration of the crisis. The previous government said in many different contexts that we should use data, not in dates, when it came to lifting measures against the corona. The same must apply to the compensation schemes. When the temporary arrangement for AAP recipients was lifted on 30 September, many people were put in a difficult economic situation, because although we have taken back their daily lives in many ways, many people have still not got their working days back, and there are many who have not been completed with regard to their ability to work. Today, I've had a meeting with trustees at the Gardermoen. There are still hundreds of lay-offs – employees working in tax-free, clean-up and weighing machines. This is projected to come back to work when, hopefully, the world looks even more normal next year. For them, there is no system of permitting which has a higher degree of compensation out of October. Even though you are now working on a separate industry programme for aviation, there is a change of pace that will take time, and many want to return to their old job. It is good that the new government has taken action quickly, and we appreciate that the members of the committee agreed to the presidency's assessment to deal with these propositions right in the Chamber, without comitology, because it is urgent to get these decisions in place. For the proposals: it is in the nature of the matter that the Workers' Party does not support proposal No. 1, from the right and left. As regards proposal No: 2, from Red, we understand that this is a proposal that is about people who have been in a very difficult economic situation. However, we are uncertain about how we can best solve this, and will encourage the representative from Red to turn this into a transmission proposal. We therefore support the proposals submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e210	The pandemic struck our country on 12 March last year. Since it has waved a little back and forth, it has been very important to come quickly with powerful measures — both for the hundreds of thousands of people who experienced being out of work or out of work, and for the companies who had major problems. This has been absolutely necessary, and there is also one of several important reasons why the Norwegian economy has returned to record speed. Just as we knew that it was harder and more complicated to open up society than it was to shut it down, it is also more demanding to phase out arrangements than it is to introduce them. But our responsibility now is to adapt the instruments to the situation in the country. So, as I said, the economy has come back quickly. Then policy must adapt to the new reality. Today's AKUs show that the unemployment rate is back at the level before the pandemic. The NHO reports that the number of unoccupied jobs is record high. In addition, the proportion of enterprises lacking skilled labour is the highest of 13 years. Thus, extending schemes that keep more people out of work can actually help to slow down the upturn in our economy. The government is proposing to extend the permit rules further. Permits are an instrument to remedy temporary work shortages. Now that we see a need for labour and increasing demand, such an extension will in reality be more beneficial to the employer than to the posted worker. The employee will be kept at a lower level of compensation, wait for them to be withdrawn by the employer and, on 1 January – with the government’s proposal – the rules will be reversed anyway. This picture, with low unemployment, of increasing labour requirements combined with the extension of services that keep people passive, may mean that more enterprises will have to pick up labour from abroad rather than here at home in Norway. Then we can once again get the problem we saw last time the red-green parties crashed, namely that the increase in employment comes as a result of labour immigration – and not that more Norwegians are coming to work. The vacancies we see now will be filled before 1 January. The question is who will fill them, and what happens when the arrangements in any case end on 1 January. That said, we also see an increase in infection – especially among children. In order to prevent its spread, there are good arguments for maintaining the specific rules on health benefits and care benefits in the context of covid-19. Therefore, the Solberg Government also extended the double allowance on care allowance by 2021. So the right is going to vote for the extension of the other special rules on care and sickness benefits. Then I'll take up the suggestion from the Right and the Left. The proposal is a natural consequence of our wish to maintain the arrangements out of October. It also means that you have to give money to keep them out of October.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e227	The representative, Mr Asheim, then drew up what the proposal referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e232	In March last year, the pandemic hit us, and the crisis measures – infectious control measures – that were introduced hit both workers and businesses hard. It was then important for the Central Party and the Labour Party in Stortinget to contribute to both rapid and powerful action in response to the pandemic. Some of the measures we contributed were compensation to enterprises, improved income protection for workers and a whole new income assurance scheme for self-employed and freelancers, which came into place following a Grand Duchy initiative. Our perspective through the crisis has been to provide predictability for those who are hard hit, as long as the crisis affects them. Therefore, it is also important that we now extend the crisis response for those who are still severely affected by the crisis. Too many of society, fortunately, things are going better again, but for some, for example. those who work at the Gardermoen – whether in tax-free, clean-up or other positions – the crisis is still very present. We still have to stand up for them, even though too many parts of Norwegian society are doing well. Even if you have permitting arrangements that can take care of them, it does not mean that in any way you have an obligation to exploit those schemes. Of course, both workers and businesses in an improved situation will want to get their people back to work, to create values, to secure income for their workers. This is about some of those who are still affected. We need to ensure predictability for them, and therefore, in the situation we are now facing, it is right to extend the arrangements out of the year. Only briefly on the proposals put forward, which the representative Mr Moflag also referred to: Proposal No. 1, from the Right and the Left, of course, we won't support it. As regards proposal No: 2, from Red, we support the message that came from the representative Moflag, that there are some AAP recipients who have also been hit earlier, as a result of the fact that one did not provide for a good continuation of any arrangements at an earlier time in the pandemic, which the Storting has at some point cleared up too many. That is why we also believe that it is important to take good care of them, and that you can assess how you get to do so in the best possible way. We would also recommend that it be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e243	I will first express joy over what is being presented today. SV supports it, and it is necessary to deal with the proposal as quickly as we do, because there are people out there waiting for an outstretched hand. There's been a tough time too many. The Korona crisis has become a disparity crisis, and although many have had both one and two stabs, the differences remain deep into people's everyday lives. It will take a long time to reverse it, reverse the trend with increasing differences in power and wealth, which the coronary crisis has reinforced. At least then we must ensure that, as long as the crisis lasts, the community stands up for those who are affected. SV has been busy for a long time. We have also been concerned that the crisis packages that Stortinget has previously dealt with should also demand that no dividends be paid or that people be cancelled when they receive crisis support. Unfortunately, we did not get a majority for that. The result is that many people who had not had to lose their jobs have lost their jobs, and many come back to a less secure working life, often with less jobs and more insecurity than they had before. We are going to see deep traces of working life as a result of the corona crisis that we have behind us, and that we still have to deal with, but also because of a lack of willingness to make social demands and support workers in connection with the crisis packages. In the case of redundancy payments, we in SV have been concerned that no one should fall out of that scheme until they are properly resolved. Therefore, I hope that the Council of State in its statement can say something about whether everyone is covered by that proposal. I also wonder if it is now possible to say something about all those who have fallen out before 1 July, in terms of their size, number and situation. From the point of view of SV, it seems wise to deal with it at a later stage, when we have clarity about it. I just want to end with a call to the Council of State and the Government. It's having close dialogue with those who know where the shoe prints. Then I think not only about association and association, but also about the AAP action, which has brought very important votes into the public, which has been able to tell about the consequences of cuts and rejections.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e258	It's very gratifying that the government is taking an initiative to extend the crisis arrangements we've had through the pandemic until Christmas. For some of us sitting in this room, and for some others in Norway, it is certain that the crisis is over, but for a good few others, who also the representative Moflag was in, on the Gardermoen or others, the reality is not like that. So there's still a need to take care of these groups. We in Red have been particularly concerned with those who have fallen out of the redundancy scheme because of the unsocial cut of the previous government in that scheme, not least the cuts that have taken place through the introduction of a carnal wound and the reduction of the maximum time, etc. And we think it is very gratifying that the government obviously sees it as important to help that group, including those who have fallen out of the scheme, to get back into the scheme and even to have the benefit they have lost after they have now fallen out of the scheme, for example. after 30 September. That is why we have felt that it has been important to draw attention to a group that the government may have forgotten, or overlooked, namely those who fell out of the scheme in the previous round – i.e. not those who have fallen out after 30 September or later, but those who have fallen out of the scheme because of the previous government's standstill year before 30 June this year. This is a group of sick, injured people. It is not a very nice or luxurious life to go to work clearance money, these are not people who have large buffer accounts and savings that they can take care of. These are people who, on the other hand, have been thrown, or pushed, out of a system — possibly for social assistance, or for no scheme at all — and they have a great economic aftertaste as it is good that the government sees the need to close. But it's clear that you fell out of that scheme in March, you've been even more months without that scheme and without that money than if you fell out of that scheme on 30 September. That is why we are very pleased that the government and government parties now from the pulpit also signal that they should try to find a solution for the people who have fallen out of order, even in the previous round. With that, I would ask that Mrs Red's proposal be turned into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e269	The representative, Mr Kristjánsson, then moved on proposal No. 2 to a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e274	Yes, the system must last as long as the crisis lasts. There is a complete consensus on the Left, but you have to look at each scheme separately and look at the general situation and how the situation is for individual groups. In any case, when we have now had hearings in the Committee on the Budgetary Situation, almost everyone has a warning against introducing general extensions into the extraordinary rules on daily allowances. It has to do with the fact that the situation in the general labour market and unemployment is now returning to pre-pandemic levels. For this reason, the Left will vote against the proposal for changes to the Day Money Code by the government, and rather support our own proposal together with the Right when it applies. But otherwise we think that the government's proposals are reasonable and will vote for them. This applies to both the changes in health and care money – when we now have a situation of increasing infection rates, it is important that people do not hesitate to be home when they are infected with covid-19 or to keep young people at home – and we will also support changes in redundancy money. Although the labour market situation must now be said to be back to a more or less normal in terms of unemployment, there is enough reason to believe that there is a backlog when it comes to clarification, both the possibility of work and, not least, what debt queues in the specialist services, so we will support it. We're also going to support what's about a system of self-employed and freelancers, with the reason that this is a working group where it takes time for a new job to be given, where a lot of this will be done in time. Not least in the cultural sector, which was particularly hard hit by the pandemic. So the Left will vote in favour of the various proposals except for the proposal on day-to-day legislation and the promises. There we support the proposal by Henrik Asheim on behalf of the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e285	I would like to thank the Sizer for quickly managing this proposition. It's an important matter for the new government, and it's an important matter for the lives of many people. There is still a low level of activity in a part of the labour market, and there are still too many who are outsourced. Not least, there have been many people who have been unemployed for a long time and who are struggling to get back to work. It is still necessary to ensure income in the event of absence due to infection of the corona or suspicion of that type of infection. Therefore, the government has said that it is too soon to wind up the extensions of central income insurance schemes we have, already now. They may be out of the year. The fact that the Right Party and the Labour Party leadership have a different view of social justice, we have seen through the entire management of the pandemic. From the beginning of the pandemic and the shutdown, we saw that the right hand part was more suitable for the employer side than they were for the workers for whom the situation was heavy. It was the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the SV and other opposition parties that had to protect the interests of people. We were the ones who had to ensure that the situation was good for general workers, and there is still a need today. We see that the whole labour market is not up-to-date. There are still pockets in the labour market, and there is still a need for us to provide for those who are at risk of cancellation or lack of income protection if we do not relinquish these schemes, as one has now suggested. I would like to make some specific comments about the work clearance scheme. We propose that the beneficiaries of redundancy benefits, who were granted the period of benefit extended to 30 September 2021, may be granted a full extension of the year. At the same time, those who leave the scheme during the period from 1 October to the end of the year will also be able to have the benefit extended. The preliminary version of the bill states that those who lose the right to redundancy benefits after 30 September and until the measure is laid down in the regulation must apply for a longer period of benefit. There is an explanation that it takes some time to put in place an automatic system solution for an extended social benefit period. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has now stated that an automatic system solution for the AAP as a jobseeker will only be in place on 2 November and on 12 November for the AAP during work clearance. Until then, an application has to be made for an extended period of benefit, and then the directorate will follow up those who make such an application. It's a change that will also occur from the finite version of the proposition. A brief note to the representatives of Bergstø and Kristjánsson: I have checked, and it turns out that there are no statistics available on the number of people who have left the AAP scheme without being prepared for work or disability in the period from 16 September 2020 to 30 June 2021. As a result, there is no information about their situation. It's the responsibility of the right government. I understand that there will be a transmission proposal on this, if possible follow-up. Of course, I accept that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e303	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e308	As I said in my post, we now see that there are more and more vacancies, and that there is low unemployment in Norway. We were confirmed that this morning at the latest. It also means that several of those who are still out of work have a better chance of getting a new job. Some of the reasons why these exceptions were created at the time they were done were, of course, that the labour market was very difficult, and then it's also hard to get a job if you don't have it. So my question to the Council of State, because the government is now proposing to extend these arrangements until 1 January, is, does the Council of State believe that the situation will be much different and far better on 1 January than it will be on 1 November?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e315	In any case, we see that the situation today is that not all parts of the labour market are freshly notified after the coronary crisis. We see that there is still a significant amount of lay-offs and of ordinary unemployment. I'm a little busy that those in this situation have to experience social justice, they have to feel that their situation is precarious, and they have to feel that the community sets up for them in what is still a demanding situation. So it goes without saying that at some point one has to stop extending what has been temporary arrangements, and our suggestion now is that this will last until New Year's.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e322	I fully agree that social justice should be provided and set up for those who need it, but also that these are temporary, extraordinary arrangements at a time when the labour market was very demanding. Now I did not get an answer as to whether it was thought that the situation would be better on 1 January than it is now, so the question is then: Does the Council of State open up to further extend these arrangements after 1 January, if the labour market does not improve further? For the situation it is that the unemployment is now lower than it was before the coronary apathy hit, according to the AKU figures that came today. I fully agree that the individual industry still has the demanding. But where does the state council limit when she is going to stop extending the arrangements, and when she thinks it's right to phase them out?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e327	I should have liked to be a fortune-teller and look into the future and say whether there will be new crises that may require new extended temporary arrangements, but I have to stick to the actual information we have, and the information we have shows that not all parts of the labour market are in good health. The information we have shows that there are people who are at risk of cancellations, and that they are at risk of standing without a proper income hedge if we do not relinquish these schemes now. So we've chosen to extend them until New Year, and that's the position of this government with the information we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e332	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good presentation and presentation and also for the speed with which this matter comes to the Grand Duchy. We have a government now that says it's common people's turn, and it's interpreted as a signal that you should also have the ear to the ground and look at people more than the government you've had before. Then I would like to ask the Council of State if it is appropriate to seek contact and dialogue with groups like the AAP action in order to clarify this situation that very many people are currently in. I have a great deal of understanding that the ministry does not have an overview of the extent of those that have fallen outside before 1 July, and it all indicates that we are going back to, but on the way forward I am now wondering whether the Council's dialogue with the necessary movements outside the department is wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e339	I thank you for the question. It is the opinion of me and the Labour Party that it is important to have contact with those who have happened to these schemes and not least to have direct contact with people who experience a difficult time. The working party has previously been in contact with the AAP action, and of course it is also natural to maintain contact with them. In the context of these specific arrangements that we have now extended, contact with the social partners is what I have prioritised.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e344	It is obvious that there are social partners that it is most important to have contact with the changes we are about to deal with today. It is important that good cooperation between the parties is also the basis for continued crisis policies and decisions in order to help people out of the difficult situation that we see at the end of the tunnel for now. Nevertheless, it may be necessary to think differently when trying to find the answer to why someone has fallen out, because it may be difficult to find the necessary figures and the fates that are not currently covered by the scheme. So I just perceive that the Council of State can actively answer that the AAP action is an actor to be contacted in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e349	I'm busy getting in touch with all of the actors that are involved, who are experienced and who mean something for the social systems we have. This government has great ambitions for Nav to be able to set up even more for those who need it. In connection with this type of work, of course, I would like to set aside time for both the AAP action and other actors in order to be sure that we have a labour and welfare directorate who feels as much as possible that they can set up for people in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e354	Thank you to the Council of State for a very good post. Governments are quite right that it is the responsibility of the previous government that thousands of people fell out of the AAP scheme. However, it is the responsibility of the government to bring those people back into good order at all times and to ensure that they do not end up in a permanent trap of poverty. We've also been concerned about and really aware that these people are no longer in Nav's systems, and that it's therefore complicated to keep track of and statistics with how many there are that have fallen out of the AAP system at different times. When the government already submits an application scheme to re-enter the scheme, with the possibility of re-imbursing it as a possible consequence, it should be possible at the same time to also collect applications from those who have fallen out earlier. My question is really just about me and others who are concerned about this group, have reason to sleep calmly at night.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e361	I have registered the transmission proposal, or what I suppose will be a transmission proposal, and of course I will follow it in a proper way. I see the absolute need for a review of the information available on the situation of those who have fallen out of the redundancy scheme in the past. Since one per today does not have statistics available on it, it may mean that some of them are left under other schemes and are thus taken care of through income protection there. Some may be overworked and cared for in this way, but it is also possible that some have experienced falling between all the chairs. I see the need for that type of review and of course accept the transmission proposal that Stortinget had to send.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e367	Let me start by congratulating Council of State Tajik on her graduation, as I haven't had the opportunity to do so yet, and I can say on behalf of the Left that we are looking forward to good cooperation. As I said in my post, we also think that many of the proposals that are being made here today are reasonable and can be argued for, not least the changes in health-related statements, all the time there is a lag after the pandemic. What I'm still saying is the argument about the general extension of the agenda. There the representative asked Asheim about what it is waiting for to change before going back to a normal situation. At that state council, she's not a fortune-teller, and we're told that's good. There should not be an ambition for a Council of States, but the Council of States is not asked to predict developments. She's asked to tell me what you want to see, what kind of factors it is that you want to go back to a normal situation. Is it that the unemployment rate should be even lower than it is now, when it is already at pre-pandemic level?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e374	It is not possible to give a perfectly precise answer to what the labour market must look like at a time when a person ceases to extend these types of schemes. This government has only proposed that they be extended to the new year. There is no suggestion for them to be extended beyond that. In the Hurdal platform, we also show that we have high ambitions when it comes to helping more people get a chance to be at work. In the Hurdal platform, we say that we have greater ambitions for labour market measures, for VTA sites, wage increases. All of this also has meaning for the reality of the day when the temporary arrangements are terminated, i.e. if they enter into a everyday life and a reality that involves labour market measures at least we have experienced as a relatively low level according to the needs, when the Right and Left have been responsible for the budget, or if one enters into a weekday where one has greater ambitions on behalf of the world of work and the labour market, such as this government has.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e381	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e386	It is important that the Storting decide today to extend several of the crisis mechanisms. When the pandemic hit us, Red worked hard to secure the economy of those who were hit. Together with the opposition, we ensured a number of improvements for the recipients of daily allowances and redundancy payments. This was particularly important for those who have low wages. Red wanted to be cleaned up when the Solberg government cut off the benefits for the unemployed and the AAP recipients before the crisis was over. Twice we asked to have the Storting called in haste when it was summer-bound, to extend the crisis arrangements. Only after the pressure from both the Red and the trade union movement, did the government finally give the press on 8 September and extend the arrangements until 31 October. Now they are further extended, out of the year. That's good, but it should just be missing. There is still a fight to achieve lasting improvements to our common safety net. The new government and SV must follow up Red's demand to improve the income protection arrangements for the unemployed and AAP recipients on a lasting basis. Red considers it necessary to continue the increased rate of daily allowances on a permanent basis. We want to secure the day-to-day allowances for all those working part-time, and reverse the tightening of the redundancy payment scheme introduced in 2018. For each employee, it makes no difference whether he or she loses his or her income because the state shuts down society, or whether he or she loses his or her income for other reasons. That's why we want the daily allowance of 80 pst., up to a certain level, to be increased permanently. We also want the income requirement to be halved on a sustainable basis, and that people with small job breaks – many of them in our country, often in low-paid jobs – should also be able to qualify for daily pay if they are so unhappy to lose their job. The limit on what you must have earned in order to be entitled to a daily allowance was lowered from NOK 150000 to NOK 75 000 during the crisis. That limit must not be increased again. A unanimous growth agreed that the daily allowance was too low and had to rise when the crisis hit us. If everyone meant it that time, it means that the bets were too low initially, and therefore they have to be raised on a permanent basis. Red is in favour of a permanent strengthening of the safety net, and we hope that we will have a majority on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e401	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e418	On behalf of the presidency, I present the Innst. 28 S for 2021-2022. In this position, the Presidency shall promote proposals for changes to the post-retirement scheme for the members of the Government, State Secretaries and political advisers in the Departments and at the Office of the Prime Minister. It follows from the Rules of Procedure concerning the working conditions of the Ministries' political management § 14, former § 18, that political management «is entitled to retirement benefits in accordance with the decisions of the Grand Duchy in force at all times». As a result of the decision of the Storting on 3 November 2005, as subsequently amended by the Decision of the Grand Duchy on 8 December 2011, one month’s retirement benefit is paid automatically to members of the Government who resign from the term of office of at least 12 months and are not curtailed against other income this month. The current Prime Minister, Erna Solberg, proposed, in a letter to the Stortinget of 19 August 2021, to amend the legislation so that members of the Government, State Secretaries and political advisers in the event of resignation can be granted full or partial retirement benefit for up to three months if he/she does not have a salary/nutrition income, pension, etc. above a certain level. The Presidency indicates that the purpose of the retirement benefit scheme is to ensure income for a limited period for those who cannot move directly into other gainful activities. The Presidency therefore adheres to the recommendation of the Government and proposes to amend the Decision of 3 November 2005 accordingly. It also means that no member of the government with more than 12 months of service can automatically be paid one month's retirement benefit without curtailment when he/she has other income. The Presidency would also draw attention to the fact that work is also in progress on reviewing the arrangements for retirement benefits and the remuneration of large-scale representatives. The Presidency points out that there are important issues that should be discussed in such a review and will come back to the Storting with a detailed assessment of these mechanisms for large-scale representatives. An overall presidency advises the United Kingdom Government to decide that decisions of 3 November 2005, as subsequently amended by a decision of 8 December 2011, on the remuneration of members of the Government, State Secretaries and political advisers, will be amended as set out in the nomination.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e437	We have seen a number of cases of abuse of post-paid schemes by top-level politicians, in particular by Today's Business, which make it clear that post-paid schemes need to be tightened up both for government members and for large-scale representatives. With its nine million in post-paid expenditure, the now-departed Solberg government has probably been the most expensive government in 2020. It is a step forward that the Storting abolishes the automatic back payment to state councils that have been sitting for one year or more. But at the same time, I would like to say that the change cannot mean that, when the decision no longer explicitly mentions it, the rate of remuneration to short-term government councils in practice is lower than today. Top politicians are already privileged. We have to end by the fact that the bulk of the population gives itself gold-plated benefits and arrangements at the top of this that are fundamentally different from the arrangements for most people. It's time for the Storting to tighten in. In a proposal now under discussion by the Presidency, Red proposes that the government should not be remunerated for over 62.4 p.m. of previous income. It will be closer to what it is like for ordinary people who lose their jobs. We also see a huge contrast between the mistrust regime that meets people in Nav and the very liberal practices of top politicians. It should actually have been the reverse, that the form for sick and disabled people should be removed, while our elected representatives must be able to meet strict documentation requirements. The presidency and administration of the Great Britain must ensure sufficient transparency, control and other mechanisms that prevent the misuse of the arrangements that we have seen so many examples of. So it is good that there is a work going on to review the arrangements for big business representatives, but we believe that the issues of today's business and other things show that there is a greater need for lye. Therefore, Red promotes proposals for increased control, with more complementary reporting obligations and more stringent documentation requirements, in the post-wage scheme for large-scale representatives, and similarly for the government. We hope to get support for that from a total accumulation. With that, I take up the Red's proposals and will also notify our support for the presidency's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e454	Then the representative Björn Moxnes has drawn up the proposal from Red. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox Case No. 5–13 is treated as a single agent.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e572	No one has asked for the floor. Then Stortinget takes a break until voting time. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e611	Report. Article 5 for 2021-2022, Retirement of Prop. 243 S for 2020-2021, annexed to the Protocol. It has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e623	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Henrik Asheim on behalf of Right and Left proposal No 2, from Mimir Kristjánsson on behalf of Red Proposal No. In the course of the debate, 2 was converted into a transmission proposal and reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government ensure that recipients of redundancy benefits who have fallen out of the AAP scheme before 30.06.2021 are also included in the new application scheme proposed by the Government. These recipients, like recipients who have fallen out of the scheme, shall be entitled to the after-payment of the loss of benefits.» The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any justification. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 1, from the Right and the Left, says: ‘I The following changes are made to the State budget for 2021:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e875	An alternative between the proposal in the proposal is first added, cap. 2541, heading 70, and the proposal from the Right and the Left. The Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e889	So it goes over the rest of B.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e1021	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e1031	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e1043	In the course of the debate, Mr Moxnes has put forward a proposal on behalf of Mr Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Council asks the Presidency to ensure increased control, with more complementary reporting obligations and more stringent documentation requirements, in the post-wage scheme for large-scale representatives, and similarly for government members, state secretaries and political advisers, and to come back to the Stortinget with necessary proposals.’ Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e1259	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e1782	The President proposes that the proposal for a representative be sent to the Education and Research Committee. Freddy André Øvstegård has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e1789	SV would like to ask that our proposal, to deal with this matter under Section 39, second paragraph, point (c) of the Rules of Procedure, be maintained. The reason for this is that, until 10 October, these exemptions from the secondary school’s absenteeism were applicable. Now it is still in full effect, and several schools are now in an acute situation with students who meet up sick at school to avoid invalid absences, contrary to the rules on the protection of infection. This has already led to an outbreak of covid-19 in the school. That is why it is urgent, and that is why we believe that the Storting should deal with the matter quickly. If that is the case that our proposal for a procedure should fall in the Chamber today, at least we are asking the Committee to deal with the matter quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e1794	Two different proposals have been made for the procedure for the representative's proposals 21 S for 2021 to 2022: the president's proposal for a reading under the second paragraph of Article 39(b) of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. to send it to the committee, and the representative's proposal for a reading under the second paragraph of Article 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure. Is there anyone who needs to give an explanation of vote? - That's not seen. There will be alternative voting between the president's proposal and the proposal of the representative of Øvstegård.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-28.ana.ud549e1810	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
