ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e113	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e131	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e138	The matter we are dealing with today, about the protocols of the Government, does not tend to create the great waves in this Chamber, and as far as many of the themes are concerned, it is as before: The attitude says that no pardon has been passed in the period, nor has there been any dissent in the government. What has nevertheless raised some awareness this time are appointments of office. Already at the last six months' reading of the minutes of the Council of State, last autumn, I warned that the appointment of the current Minister of Defence Frank Bakke-Jensen as Director of Fisheries was going to become a topic for this consideration of the minutes of the Council of State. That was the background for us as committee, when we got the case, starting with questions to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Industry and Minister of Defence Frank Bakke-Jensen. In the light of the answers we received, it became necessary to carry out a hearing, for there were incredible explanations of the appointment, especially from the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister tried to exonerate the matter that the government that had been criticised for appointment earlier – and then we have to go back to 1908 and the treatment in Stortinget in 1909 – was a business ministry. It's completely wrong. Both the criticism and not least the debate at that time prove something quite different. Gunnar Knudsen, Prime Minister of the Left at the time, was quite clear that one should not make appointments to sit government councils. It was not linked to a business ministry; he had an entirely ordinary government. Since then, in 1909, when the debate showed that Johan Castberg, a well-known left-wing size, was one of those who actively said that there should not be that kind of appointment, and that at that time they had examples of someone who wanted to become a civil servant and therefore had to resign as a state council before he applied for, there have been 37 governments and 25 prime ministers. Six of them have been from the Right. It began with Jens Bratlie – who was also part of the debate in 1909 and who agreed that it should not happen – and continued to Jan P. Syse. In fact, during Jens Stoltenberg's prime minister's period, this became a new issue, on the basis of a question from Dagfinn Høybräten, whether it could be thought that a then state council could be relevant as a bishop. But Stoltenberg replied to such a Prime Minister that of course one will follow the practice that a sitting State Council is not appointed to office. The Prime Minister has repeatedly pointed out that it has not been reacted to by the two counties. All four times she's pointed it out. I will admit that she should have received criticism before, but there is no excuse for what has happened now. So everyone else has understood it in a different way, in line with a unanimous remark from the Committee at that time, an established understanding and a general democratic mindset. In addition, the employment process itself in the Ministry of Food and Fisheries has been extremely inexhaustible. The deadline for applications expired on 10 May 2020, but it was extended. On 8 June, Frank Bakke-Jensen was for an interview, i.e. before applying for the position. He was included in the candidate list on 16 June. That list was published only three months later. And the necessary Council of State — because the former Minister for Fisheries was inhabilitated — was not appointed until August. So it was across the messy process that bears the mark of being rigged. In addition, the Civilian Ombudsman has criticised the fact that the name of Bakke-Jensen was excluded from the public candidate list. There is now a Council of State to be involved in the formulation of the fisheries policy to be practised by the future Fisheries Director. There is a Council of State which has been appointed by its colleagues to the Director of Fisheries. It is therefore quite natural that the majority of the committee should point out the obvious fact that Frank Bakke-Jensen should not be appointed as Fisheries Director.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e157	As usual, there is little to be said about the State Council's protocols. This time, however, there was a debate on the appointment or appointment of officials, which is part of the six-monthly review of the protocols by the Control and Constitutional Committee. Minister of Defence Frank Bakke-Jensen was appointed as Director of Fisheries on 21 September 2020. The appointment has triggered some debate on a varying basis, and the committee has sent letters both to the Prime Minister, to the Deputy State Council of Nybø and to Frank Bakke-Jensen to carry out its control of the process. The Committee followed up an open hearing with Prime Minister Erna Solberg and Minister of Industry Iselin Nybø on the appointment of Frank Bakke-Jensen as Director of Fisheries and on matters of principle relating to the appointment of members of the Government for posts. A key question was whether the process of appointing a new fisheries director was carried out in line with good management practice. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries was assisted by a recruitment firm to obtain and quality assurance candidates for the post. On the basis of this, a clarification of interest was carried out to increase the number of applicants, and it was in this process that Frank Bakke-Jensen became a candidate. In line with good administrative practice, his application was dealt with in an ordinary way, and in the public candidate list that was filed with the Ministry on 7 September, Frank Bakke-Jensen’s name was excluded. I refer you to the Prime Minister's answer in the hearing on this: ‘I believe that it should be public if a State Council applies for a post because there is a basis for more disclosure.’ It is also important to state that the employment in the case has followed the principle of qualification in Section 3 of the State Employment Act, which states that the best qualified applicant is to be employed in a job vacancy. It was a clear recommendation that it was Frank Bakke-Jensen who was the best qualified candidate. I just notice that some politicians are claiming better knowledge and judgment than the professionals at this point. At the same time, there has been a debate on whether it is at all right that a sitting State Council could be appointed in the mandates of its college. This is an exciting and perhaps necessary debate. What gets so wrong is when/ that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV use a downgrading treatment in 1909, with the background of a very special situation in which a business ministry appointed itself to such positions, as a basis for believing that the Prime Minister has done something wrong in his appointments. And not enough – without analysis and assessments, it is established that this does not have to happen. It may well be that the procedure, relevant or not, could require new eyes and thorough assessments today. The right, the Progress Party, the Left and independent representative, Leirstein, feel that it is preferable to review and assess how this issue should be addressed in the future. Should government councils be able to apply for and be appointed to positions of office? Is it okay that outgoing state councils leave such an application on the way out the door, which both the Workers' Party and the Centre have good experience in? Is that the confidence in an objective and good employment to be taken into account, it must be a fairly long quarantine period? Does one exclude the best candidates in this way? We believe this in the Right it might be useful to look at, but the opposition will only determine parts of the issue today. Summaries: there are no rules forbidding government councils from applying and being appointed to an office. The Protocol Committee which reviewed the protocols of the State Council in 1909 was concerned about a practice in which government councils were appointed to offices without real competition for the positions. The principle of qualification has been used in the appointment of Hill-Jensen, and the Prime Minister has not broken any laws, regulations or guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e177	From 1909 until now, it has been a firm practice for governments not to appoint sitting state councils to positions of office. The policy is based on an ethical and political assessment of the role of the government and of the government. We have a politically neutral office to implement the policy to the government that always assumes the Storting. The government is a college that is jointly responsible for the policies they conduct. These roles shall not be confused. The principle was so important that in his time, King Haakon engaged to get it in place. The seated government has now appointed State Council Frank Bakke-Jensen as Fisheries Director. I react to the fact that the Prime Minister, in the hearing of the Committee, did not see the difference between the appointment of sitting and the resignation of state councils in positions of office. As a sitting of the Council of State, an affected decision to be taken by an official may be taken at a later date. As the State Council sitting, the Settings dialogue is a closed conversation between state councils and between state councils and prime minister. Therefore, this is not an ordinary add-on matter, as the government tries to present it as. It's a violation of an important principle of our statehood. In the hearing of the Committee, the Prime Minister pointed out that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee had not previously criticised the appointment of other sitting members of the Government. It seems to me that the Prime Minister has lost sight of the role of the government. The government is responsible for its own decisions, both with and without criticism from the Control and Constitutional Committee. I can agree that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs should have reacted to the other issues as well, but the government must be responsible for making wise assessments of what will benefit both the political environment and the civil service. The addition of a Sitting State Council by the Fisheries Director does the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e186	I would like to start by saying that there is good reason why we have had it over 100 years long practice not to appoint sitting state councils for positions of office. It is about trust in the good, professionally strong, impartial and neutral government. It is clear that that trust is challenged when a government appoints one of its own to a high position of office. And it's clear that it's being challenged when the government as a college now adopts a policy that one of them will later practice in the office. The Committee unanimously states in its opinion that we are aware that the prohibition of the appointment of State Councils is not legal, but that such appointments are a matter of ethical and political assessment and firm practice since 1909. The government of Solberg has broken with this ethical and political firm practice three times. This is particularly bad in terms of the position of director of a trade union directorate – a part of the government that both manages policies is an important resource and provides professional advice on government policy developments. I would like to say that trust in the civil service and administration is also all the more important in the area of fisheries – because the fisheries resources are our second largest export industry, and because the fisheries policy that this government has led has been the subject of great conflict and strong criticism. This criticism includes, among other things: focus on how management works. We have seen this criticism in particular in the Riksrevision report that this committee was dealing with a short time ago, when it became clear that the central principles of fisheries policy of the United Kingdom were being challenged. The principle of this case and the breach of over 100 years of practice are just one side of the case, for on the other hand, the very process of appointment has been immoderate and marked by darkening. It has taken a long time for Stortinget to get an overview of this matter because the state councils have not just put themselves in the harness to provide all relevant information immediately. On the contrary, state councilman Bakke-Jensen had to ask questions from Stortinget to tell him that there was an employee in the department who first contacted him about the position. Bakke-Jensen has said that he did not make direct contact with the Minister of Fisheries, Mr. Ingebrichtsen, in connection with the application, but it turned out to be an untruth. The residents later confirmed that Bakke-Jensen called him directly. Minister of Economic Affairs Nybø did not publicly say that Bakke-Jensen was attending an interview in the department until he had submitted an application – for example. on a written question which was raised in the context of the case – before it was raised in the hearing of the control committee this spring, where Nybø told me that it was ‘a conversation with Frank Bakke-Jensen on 8 June’, i.e. before Bakke-Jensen had submitted his application. On follow-up questions about what kind of conversation this was, Bisitter Morten Berg from the department replied that the conversation had to be considered an ordinary interview, and that Bakke-Jensen was to be seen as an applicant from that time. In addition to this lack of willingness to inform the matter, there are several other unfair aspects of the process that do not look so good. The government tried to keep Hill-Jensen's name secret from the candidate list, which triggered criticism from the Civil Ombudsman. There is no record of the first interview with Bakke-Jensen on 8 June 2020, and recruitment interviews were conducted before the application was made. The Ministry posted the candidate list, dated 19 June, only three months after it existed. What is still unclear to me is why it took so long before the Council of State Nybø was elected as the Council of State for recruitment, and whether the Habile Minister of Fisheries, Odd Emil Ingebrichsen, did something in connection with the matter before that. Prime Minister Solberg stated in the reply to the Stortinget that Nybø was ‘appointed as the Council of State in the preparatory process of the applications’. That's wrong. Nybø was appointed as the Council of State on 14 August 2020. The recruitment process had already come a long way. What is the explanation here, we still don't know, but in sum, the government's violation of the practice of not appointing its own -- this darkening of the case and the immature process -- does not build exactly trust in this important employment. We believe that to be very critical. We say that Frank Bakke-Jensen should not be hired as a new fisheries director, and we suggest that the government should for the future refrain from appointing current state councils to positions of office.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e203	From the perspective, the task of the Control and Constitutional Committee, of controlling the government's work in accordance with decisions taken in the Storting, this is a matter where the core is reasonably simple. Although it has developed a practice where sitting councils are not appointed to positions in the office, there is nothing formal about that happening. According to Stortinget that sitting councils are not to be appointed to such positions, it is primarily the Stortinget who has an hour’s sleep – compare the quotation from the then Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg of 2006, which the majority of the Committee has made in its observations, and which the case-speaker referred to in his statement: ‘If a situation arises in which a State Council, State Secretary or Political Advisor is applying for a position in which the King of the Council of State or one of the Departments is a appointing authority, the Government intends to continue the practice established under previous Governments.’ All where the Storting accepted that the assessment is entirely up to the government to make – when the Storting accepted the premise that the government intends to continue established practices. Similarly, the Stortinge has accepted two previous awards without commenting on them either in the form of comments or decisions. On behalf of the big group of the Left, I take self-criticism that we have not responded before. For this reason, we are very pleased that today there will be multiple numbers to get a discussion on the case map where one assesses whether it is strictly formal to regulate such additions, read: legislate them. We also ask for an assessment of the introduction of a withdrawal period in order to avoid a practice in which government councils are appointed just after they have left. The left looks forward to getting a case on the table and expects it to happen reasonably quickly. When it comes to the accession process itself, all the Committee has received both written and oral information that it has been inconvenient for both the process and the handling of the candidate assessments. There is also no doubt about it, so far as there is no doubt about job candidates until you see how they actually fill the position in the practical everyday life, that the best candidate got the job – with one exception procedurally, that the application from Frank Bakke-Jensen was not public. When a mass mass today is behind the comments of the committee at this point, and the Prime Minister was so clear in his hearing that the application should have been public, I of course argued that this was the exception to confirm the rule. I am also surprised that the majority of the committee criticises the ministry for going beyond the deadline for applying for the best possible searchlist before starting the evaluation and sibling process. Should not the Stortinget be pleased that the departments both use the recruitment agency in such processes and do everything they can to ensure that the best candidates are actually on the search list at the end? The alternative to so-called active market searches would be to rediscover the position, with the additional costs and the longer-term use it would lead to. It would hardly have been better or any guarantee that the result would change. No matter what one might suggest that a government council has been given the position, there is no reason to criticize the ministry for the process itself, rather the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e227	The Chairman of the Committee, Mr Andersen, has asked for the floor of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e232	Initially, the President correctly referred to our proposal for discussion by the Committee – which was the same as the President decided. The Committee has unanimously asked both the Minister for Industry and the Prime Minister to be present. Now I see from the list of speakers that the Prime Minister has not intended to participate in the debate. It seems to me to be an attempt to cut off a democratic process on what is the most important issue, namely the role of the Prime Minister in the appointment of current state councils as positions of office. I would therefore, as strongly as I can, urge the Prime Minister to draw up an ordinary statement, so that, in line with what the President said in the introduction, it will be possible for the Stortinget to have a reply on what is the main theme of this issue – not to avoid a democratic debate again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e239	The next speaker is Councillor Iselin Nybø. And there is no line for this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e246	The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries was assisted by a recruitment agency in connection with the addition of a new fisheries director. The purpose of using an agency is to help assess applicants and to find potential candidates who are not themselves applying for a public call. This is also a widespread practice of recruiting jobs at this level. The Agency conducted discussions with a number of people in order to form a separate picture of the situation of the Directorate and to obtain input on current candidates. Possible candidates were discussed between the Agency and the Ministry, and a number were contacted to investigate whether they were interested in applying for the job. Through this process, Frank Bakke-Jensen's name came up. He submitted his application for the post on 16 June, after having had a conversation with him, among other things. to find out if he was genuinely interested in the job. This conversation developed in such a way that it became natural to characterise it as an interview. That was after the deadline for application, which in itself did not prevent the application from being taken into account. After the deadline, there were also other applications, all of which were evaluated. I cannot see that it would have any negative impact on other applicants unless it is believed that those who have applied before the deadline should have a protective interest in avoiding competition from others who are coming later. I don't think this is a good reason. The main objective must be to get the best applicants for the job and finally the best candidate. Frank Bakke-Jensen was included in the updated candidate list we were sent on 19 June from the recruitment agency, but this list was first posted to the department on 7 September. The civil officer disagreed with the assessment that was made when the name of Bakke-Jensen was excluded from the public candidate list. Of course, I take note of her assessment. What is said in this opinion will form the basis for our future assessment in similar cases. In addition to the conditions I have now mentioned, I believe that a good and proper process was still being carried out. I am responsible for all employment matters in the department, but the government council is responsible for the Directorate of Fisheries and their activities. He would initially have been involved in the preparation of the matter and therefore normally made an assessment of his viability. The conclusion was that he should not participate because of his contacts with the spouse of Bakke-Jensen, and after that he did not participate in the preparations, including discussions about the candidates. I had a final interview with Bakke-Jensen before the appointment. By that time the Agency had submitted its assessment of the applicants, where he was considered the most qualified. The opinion of the departmental department, approved by the Deputy Ministerial Council and the Council of Ministers, also concluded that he was the best candidate after a concrete assessment of other applicants who were included in this final evaluation round. It is correct and important that candidates for such positions are assessed on the basis of their competence in accordance with the qualification principle of Section 3 of the State Staff Act and not their political position. I understand from the Committee's commitment to this matter that there is something we agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e268	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e273	I registered that the Council of State had an article in the Daily of 14 May, which was an answer to a very good comment article in the Newspaper on the immaturity associated with this process, especially linked to the fact that there is a sitting Council of State that has been appointed. Both the former membership of the Council of State Knudsen, who was prime minister in 1909, and the then Council of State Castberg were very clear that it was not only related to the Ministry of Business that the practice of appointing people for office was totally unacceptable. Does the Council not see that it is a dilemma that he who is going to be the fisheries director should be in government and design the fisheries policy for which he will later be a loyal official and that he is appointed by only his colleagues?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e282	First of all, I would like to say that both in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries and in our underlying offices and companies, we have people with different political backgrounds in senior management positions. I only experience them as professional actors, as leaders who are able to distinguish between their own political position and the job they are employed to carry out. With regard to this newspaper-comment, I do not think it could be incontrovertible. It was healthy in word use, and I tried to answer with a fresh comment back. A great deal can be said about the principle of whether a government council should apply for a position or not. My department received an application. We don't have the authority – we didn't have it then, and we don't have it now – not to treat it like everyone else. Frank Bakke-Jensen was considered to be the best candidate and thus got the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e289	In this case, large parts of the media, including Day and Time, done an exemplary job of finding a basis for comparison. I myself have been a state councillor and was not in doubt that the prime minister I set up was quite clear that one in the department's processes should not hire people who were in government. Does that mean that when Knudsen, Castberg and later Left Chiefs have been quite clear about the understanding of what happened in 1909, 25 prime ministers have been wrong? Is it just today's prime minister who understood what the Stortinget really meant in 1909?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e296	The situation in 1909 was quite different from the situation we are in now. It was a business ministry that employed itself on the way out of the offices. This has been an entirely ordinary process in which Frank Bakke-Jensen has been employed in competition with others and has been assessed as the most qualified applicant. I think the Committee and the majority have had a sensible approach to this matter when looking at the question of whether to hire or apply for posts when you are a State Council. But I and my department have to deal with the laws and regulations the Stortinget has given, and we can't choose to ignore an application that comes, nor from a government council, because we had to believe something about his role today and his right to apply. He applied, we evaluated the application in a very common way, and he was considered to be the best candidate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e303	A 'whole ordinary process' — that's all else than that. Finally, I would like to ask the Council of State, on the basis of the reactions this employment has aroused, not least in the fisheries policy environments, but also in the Grand Duchy: in a majority opinion of the Committee, which rightly represents only a minority in the Chamber, the majority questions the practice of appointing current state councils to positions, in this case the position of fisheries director. Will the Council consider giving friendly advice to the future Fisheries Director about perhaps getting some help to assess whether he should choose not to take up the position, but to resign from the position simply for the sake of respect for the position to be occupied?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e310	What I can agree with is that it's unusual for a sitting state council to get a job like this. But the very process of getting there has been quite ordinary. We have hired a recruitment agency that has worked the same way they work in all other kinds of cases. My branch has been involved in the dialogue with the recruitment agency in the same way that they use to be. This is a matter that has gone up the line, completely without political interference from my side, until a clear recommendation from the Council of Ministers and the Deputy Ministerial Council came to me. What Frank Bakke-Jensen chooses to do now must be up to Frank Bakke-Jensen. He has competed with other candidates for this job. He has been regarded by the Agency, by the department, by the department management at my home and by me as the best candidate, and therefore he got the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e319	Who is the best candidate, I have no intention of evaluating, so this is not about the qualifications of the different candidates, but it's about the way this has been done. My perception is that the government is a college, where a co-worker, where a giver and take to get through cases. Can the council understand that too many people don't know if this is part of such a gypsy and ta fight, where some people get through something in government, and others get other things? Can the Council of State understand that this creates uncertainty about the basis of education?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e324	Firstly, I am pleased that the representative makes it clear that this is not about qualifications. The evaluation has been carried out by professional people both in the Agency and in the Department, who have assessed the qualifications of Frank Bakke-Jensen against the other applications. I understand that it creates debate when a sitting State Council gets a position like this. We also see that it's created. But I've been very concerned that it shouldn't be exactly what the representative fears people that it has been. I have asked my department directly whether they have experienced some kind of political pressure from me to cancel Frank Bakke-Jensen. The answer to that was a cash no, with a follow-up: We have not even experienced any political interference in the matter until we presented our position.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e331	The left is known to be occupied with openness, at least in the past. What does the Council of State mean that the Council of State takes note of the reference of the Civil Ombudsman? What will the state council do to follow up on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e336	We made a different assessment of this matter when it came to excluding the name of the candidate list from the public than the Civil Ombudsman did. And I want to be very clear: if we were to review this matter again, when we now have the Civil Ombudsman's statement in the luggage, Frank Bakke-Jensen would not have been given the exception of his public name. So it's clear that this is an opinion that's going to have consequences for the way we evaluate this type of query in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e342	In this case, new information has still emerged as the media and Stortinget have asked and dug. I can mention the meeting between Bakke-Jensen and the Department on 8 June 2020, that Bakke-Jensen claimed that he did not make direct contact with Minister of Fisheries Ingebrichtsen, who was wrong, that Nybø himself had a closing interview with Bakke-Jensen, or that the application for Bakke-Jensen was initially kept secret. In retrospect, would it have served the case and in particular the confidence in the appointment of a new fisheries director if the government had been more willing from the start to inform the matter and show a greater degree of transparency?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e347	I experience that we have provided the information that has been requested. There have been several interviews with Frank Bakke-Jensen, there have been several interviews with other candidates. There have been different forms of testing. There are two things that I think we in the department should have done differently, seen afterwards. First of all, when we received the application list from the Agency, it should have been posted there and then and not some time later. Right in this case, it wouldn't have the great practical consequences, for those who asked for transparency would have been given insight, and Frank Bakke-Jensen's name would not have been obtained there, because he was exempt from public opinion. The other thing we should have done differently, seen in retrospect, was that Frank Bakke-Jensen should not have got his name except for publicity, in line with what the Civil Ombudsman has said. But besides that, I believe that this process has been quite normal, and Frank Bakke-Jensen and other applicants have received the same treatment as they would in other types of employment cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e354	With that, the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e359	Initially, I will be allowed to state the following: All Norwegian citizens can apply for an office according to the Basic Law § 114. Once the best qualified applicant has been found, the Constitution requires § 21 that the appointment be made in the State Council. On the other hand, there are no rules prohibiting the application and appointment of local government councils. Grounde-Jensen normally applied for the year as Director of Fisheries. He was judged to be the most qualified of several applicants, both by the recruitment agency and by the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. So the appointment of the Hill-Jensen is a fully legitimate decision in line with the requirements set out and in line with the rights set out in the Constitution. When it comes to the question of whether a State Council sitting in office will be able to apply for a position in the future, I repeat what I said in the hearing: this is something we can discuss in the future, but the problem of the majority of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have formulated it is far too narrow. The question may not be limited to the Council of State, which may be appointed to office, but how long it may be necessary from a Council of State to seek pardon until she or he can apply for a post. The challenges raised by the majority of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee relate to trust, suspicion of special treatment and traditions of a politically neutral office, are in fact equally relevant when a government appoints its former government councils and colleagues in office, particularly after a short period of time. There are several examples that Labour Party-led governments have appointed former state councillors for office shortly after they have been dismissed in mercy. From Stoltenberg II we can, for example, mentioned both Sylvia Brustad and Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, who were appointed statesmen quite shortly after they left the government. I cannot agree that this government's appointments have broken with the Storting's clear assumptions of 1909, as the members of the Workers' Party, the Senter Party and the Socialist Left Party claim. It is obvious that you read differently what was the debate and what was the context. In 1909, there was a good and thorough debate following the appointment of five government colleagues, including the Prime Minister himself, by the government of Løvland, as the Ministry of Business. The debate was about two things: the need for money by outgoing state councils, and the absence of a qualification principle. At the time, it was actually expensive to be appointed Council of State. It resulted in large pension liabilities and an order fee. With frequent post-parliamentary government shifts, it was necessary to ensure that outgoing government councils had the means to pay their debts. The solution was often, under several governments, that they appointed themselves to offices in connection with the government's resignation, as did the government of Løvland. The Protocol Committee in 1909 was concerned about this long-standing practice. Both the committee and the big debate show that there was a great deal of understanding about the need to secure a retirement pension for retired state councils, but not by giving them an office that was often undeclared and to which they were not necessarily qualified. That's why there was a unison desire at Stortinget to end this practice. Very familiar have all the governments since 1909 followed up this consensus. Today there is a clear framework for what a business ministry can do, and at least since the Civil Service Act of 1918, it has been suggested that the best qualified applicant should be hired. Therefore, it is not comparable when the best qualified applicant is appointed in an open process. I therefore want to finish where I started: Hill-Jensen was assigned to the Director of Fisheries because he was the best qualified applicant for the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e378	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e383	I record that the Prime Minister continues his attempt to misjudge the matter, on the one hand, by comparing with people who have left the government, and on the other hand by claiming that the discussion in 1909 was only for business ministries. With regard to the discussion in 1909, it is only to go into the minutes and see how clearly those who were then involved in the debate assumed that this was a matter of course for governments that would continue, even if the matter appeared at the Ministry of Business. But let me ask you this: when 25 prime ministers since 1909, and the Stortinget, have understood a unanimous remark in the Protocol Committee and the debate that was then, in the way that a sitting government is not supposed to appoint current state councils for positions of office, has it made the Council of State that it may be that the 25 pastors have understood it correctly, and that it is she who understands it wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e390	It may well be that a lot of government councils have before been very aware that this is not going to happen. I have been aware that all appointments in this government should follow the qualification principle, and that when people apply, it is important that it is an application process that should be good. The assessment of the qualifications shall be good. Then I think that after we've got the Civil Service Act – after we've got completely different recruitment processes than what we had at the time – that if that's what I hear from this debate, it's that you sit in a college and make rules that you have to manage afterwards, which is a problem, and that it can create distrust and other things, then we have a pretty big debate. For there are quite a number of officials who have become state councillors through, but appointed before, i.e. officials who become state councillors, who sit and manage this. Gunnar Berge was appointed oil director, but he spent nearly six years in a government after he was appointed, and made rules and new oil policy for this country. If we are to draw the principles drawn up in this debate, I think that what is then the majority in the Chamber stands for a good principle. Then we have to discuss how to draw the principles in a good and neutral way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e399	I understand so much that the Prime Minister prefers to talk about something else, that is what is called ‘whataboutism’. But now there is the question of a government council that has been appointed as an official, to continue to develop policies in the area for which he will later become an official, in the government as a college. And the Council of State itself has confirmed, despite the fact that I know that her entire apparatus has been looking for an exception from 1909, that there is no such exception. All the other prime ministers have perceived that question in a different way, and then I'm just asking that a sitting state council be appointed. My question was: can it be thought, when 25 prime ministers have perceived it differently than Prime Minister Solberg, hypothetically, that it is the 25 who have been right, and that it is the current Prime Minister who is wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e404	Right and wrong – it's not a question of that. The employment that has been done is quite right in relation to the laws and regulations, the Constitution's requirements and everything else. When it comes to the question of whether a principle of not doing so has been established – it is obvious that this has been done. It is also interesting that this has not been a clear principle since the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs did not point it out when Elisabeth Aspaker was appointed, or when Bent Höie was appointed – it has then been so obvious what this principle is – despite the fact that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs had members who had been state councillors, who now stand on the platform and say that this was quite obvious. So I'm saying that this is an interesting and important topic, but it has to be discussed in its entire width. What does it mean if you think it's not trust because you're in the same college? Do you have confidence in government officials – and there have been many of them in Labour Party governments – who sit and administer legislation together with other colleagues, and then go back and practice the legislation of others? Based on the posts that have been here now, it seems that you don't have a fundamental understanding that there's a completely comparable situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e411	The Prime Minister is still saying that it is in line with laws and regulations. By doing so, one believes that it is not expressly prohibited in law to appoint a sitting councillor as an official. But is that the Prime Minister's approach to democracy, too? For there are many examples of – and weaker examples than this – a unanimous comitology that goes through a unanimous magnificence, about how government should act, is respected by the government even if there is no law on the matter – especially when it has happened as long ago as 1909, and has thus evolved into a constitutional practice. Does that mean that we can expect the Prime Minister not to care about committee remarks or constitutional practices if it is not passed into law what she cannot do?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e416	I care about the constitutional custom. But it's not just defined in law, it's not defined in any guidelines for government work under any governments. And the Control Committee has not pointed it out during the previous two appointments. So I say this is an important and fundamental discussion. But in a modern society – which is not 1909, where there were closed and no competitive allocations of official positions, where there was no openness about the processes leading up to this – we need to discuss it in today's context. Where, then, are the frameworks for government officials to sit down without cancelling their position, if they are not to sit and design legislation to be administered by them at a later stage, which is a principle that has now been used by several opposition officials? Where should you set the limits when it's not your own college, when you've just graduated? We've had things where it looks like it's a consolation press because you had to leave the Council of State job in a resurgence, that you've been appointed to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e424	There was a lot of discussion here about what's allowed, what's clear in the laws, but it's probably not that you should do it, even if it's not formally forbidden. I react a little when the Prime Minister says that since the Control Committee did not respond to the other two issues, that should be okay. Is it not the government and not at least the Prime Minister's own job to assess what makes sense?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e431	Well, it's always the government's task to consider what makes sense. We think it makes sense that the best qualified applicants get the job in Norway. But when members of the Control and Constitutional Committee, who have not been involved in pointing this out in the past, say that it is quite obvious that this code was known to all, and that this is the procedure, it may not have been so obvious, since it has not been problematic in the past. So I say this is an interesting discussion, but we have to take the discussion across the board, and then we have to ask: do we in Norway afford to lead these principles so far that we don't get the most qualified, either to become councillors, because it will have too much expense in relation to other things you do, or that we don't get the most qualified officials? I experienced posts now, where there was a lack of confidence that politicians would come into official positions. I want to underline what the Minister of Industry also said: we have confidence in former, red-green depositors who sit and lead large underlying agencies under this government, because we think they are professional, and we think that everyone qualified for this is actually going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e438	As I pointed out in the previous exchange of lines, with the Minister of Industry, this is not – from my point of view at all – about the qualifications of Bakke-Jensen, but it is about the principle. What does it say to all the others who had applied for the position, when one is so clear, as the Prime Minister now says, that if one had not done that, one would not have got the best person? How do those who have applied for this position feel in this situation? Then there's a point that a claim that there's little difference between whether you're a sitting state council or a state council that's gone off. It's a reality that government councils have a college together. They talk between themselves, without being seen as public communication, in a completely different way than government councils that have left – no one is going to be as ousted as a government council. Does the Prime Minister not see that there is a great difference between being a sitting state council and being a state council that has resigned?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e445	The technical advice was to hire Frank Bakke-Jensen because he was the best qualified. I was very concerned that it should be like this, and that there should be no doubt, precisely because appointing a member of the government for a job could lead to discussion. Therefore, it was important that there was a professional basis for this. It's not because someone's been talking or something else. The distrust of what I think is now being expressed is, in fact, an implication that the government and the Minister of Industry have denied that this is the professional assessment. It's not like that. In fact, it is the professional assessment that he is the most qualified candidate. To the question of past or present: I think there will soon be many who say that it may be difficult if a person is appointed to an office six weeks after you have left the government, to see that it cannot be talked about, or is part of the final package or other – if you should first have distrusted this. I believe we should have confidence that we should have well-qualified and open processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e452	The Prime Minister, in his reply to the Stortinget on this matter, stated the following: ‘Minister of Economic Affairs Nybø was appointed as the Council of State in the preparatory procedure for the applications.’ It turned out to be wrong. Nybø was appointed as the Council of State on 14 August 2020. The recruitment process had already come a long way. As early as 8 June 2020, Frank Bakke-Jensen was at the Department of the Deputy Ministerial Council calling a job interview, and was from that interview to consider as an applicant for the job. Then why did the Prime Minister write what she did to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e464	Because it is true, because the Council of State was appointed as the Council of State in the preparatory work, and then, in reality, the Council of State took over long before the formal appointment. That appointment came at the time because it was the first government we had after the summer vacation, but it was dealt with in that part of the Ministry of Economic Affairs a long time before, when it was clear that we had to have a Council of State for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e469	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e476	First, I have to comment that it was very special to see the chairman of the committee – with reference to the Rules of Procedure – intervene in the debate in order to identify who will take the floor or not, in the middle of an open debate. Now, to the extent that the Prime Minister has shown in retrospect – with a post that was obviously well prepared – that this was not the case. I think that's special. In our comments, we discussed and commented on this in the Committee on Stability. It's like in our committee we're ten members, and in this case there's five on one side and five on the other. We agree that there are some things that should be discussed. The position has a majority proposal I, which is a majority proposal with the chairman's double vote, which will now decide that current members of the government cannot be appointed. But this should be an informed debate, and we demand what they think about almost standing and walking councils. It has been all the way down for 14 days from the state councils going out the door, until they were appointed. Do they think it's okay? Those who are now so very clear that current state councils should not be appointed: Where is the border of outgoing state councils? How should quarantine be? What areas of action should be covered? I think it is very strange that the majority and the whole room cannot participate in a debate on how this should be. What are the principles on the basis of trust in the appointments to be made? We're all concerned about that, and we have a very common interest in that. If the Right, along with the Advance Party, the Left and the independent representatives, do not support that proposal today, it is because we want to see it in its entirety. We want the whole assessment: what's going to be equal to? What does it take to make sure that we can get that trust? And how are we gonna deal with it so we don't lose the best candidates? It would have been nice to hear a little about what the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV think about that part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e485	This is in many ways a very interesting debate. Me and the Center Party have no views on the qualifications of the Hill-Jensen, they are certainly excellent. We don't have any assumptions about going into that process. We also do not have so many comments relating to the very involvement in the matter and the case, because that is not what this is really about. It's about what kind of habits have been, and what habits you now risk establishing. Several speakers from the government parties have mentioned that there are no rules against it. No, but the custom has been very clear for a long time, and what the government is doing now is introducing a new practice that no government and Prime Minister have had before them. Then there is a point – as some have said – that one should probably have reacted earlier; one should have reacted even when sitting state councils were appointed statesmen. I see that point, but that is not an argument for not responding in the matter that is now before you. What we're seeing now is that there's going to be a precedent that there's reason to reflect on. Then the Minister of Industry says that there was no authority in the department to stop the process, but then the head of government should have made it clear that a long-standing constitutional practice makes this impossible. I understand from the Prime Minister that she has a pragmatic relationship with constitutional practice when she says that there were no guidelines. No, there are often no guidelines for constitutional practice. I also think it's a little strange when the Prime Minister withdraws various relationships, such as the appointment of state officials to government councils. The Prime Minister then risks reducing the importance of the College of Government as such. Sitting as a government council is a special political task, and it can be very little compared to anything else you have, and that's the college you sit in, this is about. I hope that future governments will refrain from the precedent and practice that has been established. I believe it is important that future governments ensure that this is an exception, a so-called'solberg parliamentarism', and not the rule of Norwegian constitutional practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e496	First, I want to stand completely behind the representative Arnstad's thorough and good posts now. Secondly, we have not assessed whether Frank Bakke-Jensen is professionally qualified for the job he is appointed to; that is the process and the way it has happened, which has been assessed by the Control Committee. Nor have we considered other candidates to say that – that is not the role of Storting. I can say that someone has asked me: Shouldn't the Storting decide that he should be dismissed? No, we're not cleaning up the mess by the fact that the Storting itself is untidy. It's not our role to hire or assign fishing directors. When the government's messed up, the Big One gets to be clean. So to the representative Harberg, who is asking why we're proposing only what's going on with the current state councils, in our proposal for Decision I. That is because it is what confirms first of all a unanimous committee comment of 1909, and second, a practice and practice since 1909. That's the exact point. That doesn't mean we refuse to discuss other dilemmas. I also see the dilemma with people who are appointed early after they have left, and – now I am only talking on behalf of myself – if professionals in the civil service become the Council of State. I also think it's on the verge that statesmen become it, which is a very personal view. I like to discuss it, but that's not the case now, and that's why we're dealing with it, and the proposal we keep – not because it's a new proposal, but because it's a proposal that confirms what has previously been unanimous views from the Storting and that has established itself as a custom since 1909. As the House has understood, it seems to me that it is a democratic problem that the Prime Minister does not see the dilemma of what has happened, and I think it fits into a number of issues we have had lately. In this case, it is obvious – everyone sees it – but we have also had examples where the government interferes with the Civil Ombudsman Act, which is therefore the Swedish Supreme Court Act, both with proposals in its time and with involvement in the Storting process. We have seen a gradual development towards increased secrecy, and let me mention two rather recent issues: the Frode Berg case and the arms export case, where those of us who have read the secret documents – some of us at least – seem to be obviously a lot of the secret to the government's convenience, and not just to the preservation of the national security. The sum of this and the matter we are discussing now is that although there are many reasons to replace this government – that we want less differences between people and not increased, that we want an active business policy to get people back to work, and that we do not want workers to pay more in taxes while the rich get less – then democracy and the relationship between government and growth in itself are a good argument to change government for the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e505	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e523	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President and 3 minutes to the main speakers of the other parties and members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e530	The National Audit Office's annual report is also a matter which, like the previous one, usually does not lead to very much attention, but which, unlike the previous one, may not do so this time either. This does not mean that it is not an important document, because it gives us a good overview of the job that the Riksaudition has done in the previous year, and – I will make that clear right away – the importance of the job that has been done in the previous year. It's been an active year for the Riksrevision, but they've, of course, been influenced by the pandemic we're in. One of the tasks of the National Audit Office is to conduct financial audits, and it has been done by 230 companies and entities in the country. The main feature of this — every year — is that when you look at the number of audits carried out by the National Audit Office, the main impression is that the general government has the highest level of responsibility for accounting and documentation on what is going on. I can say, and I think I have the committee with me, that a permanent exception in our time has been the Ministry of Defence. Otherwise, there are also examples that there have been comments and that next year’s review shows that the comments of the National Audit Office have been taken into account and that better and correct accounting procedures have been put in place. It's reassuring. The administrative audits give us a thorough review of whether life and learning are related, that is, whether the purposes and decisions taken are followed up, and there the department makes thorough assessments that provide us with the basis for dealing with important issues. If I'm going to mention a brief common feature for them, I can well say – and we've had some very recent issues on it – that ICT security is becoming a topic that goes back to quite a number of administrative audits, whether it be health, police or other areas of society. It's a challenging area. It is an area that evolves so fast that keeping pace can be challenging, but nevertheless it is a main theme that needs to be followed closely. So it's company control, which has given us a lot of work in this period. Of course, this is partly because the state manages large values, partly alone and partly together with others, and both results, such as: in the case of foreign investment, and not least the discussion we have had during this period about the development of leadership wages – which in some way is out of proportion to a society that has now for a period been very concerned with moderation, if I can say so – has been issues that have been left for us during this period. We also appreciate that we have seen two examples in the last period of cross-ministerial studies to see how we achieve common goals, that we work across departments and not just sectorially. I want to end by saying that this report – and it is really very good that it is the annual report of the Riksrevision – is the last matter that this committee is dealing with in plenary, and on which we have put it down, say for the whole period: Thank you very much for a very good and inspiring cooperation with the Riksrevision, for good reports in the service of democracy, for the assistance they also provide internationally to help improve the transparency of the world society in administration, but above all for the job they have done for us. I know that we in the Control Committee have greatly appreciated the contact we have had, including with regard to specific tasks, such as the Kielland discussion, which we had here in the Chamber on Monday, and special assignments related to it. So thank you very much for that cooperation, and otherwise also thank you very much for the cooperation we have had in the Committee in connection with the last matter that the Committee now has to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e543	I would like to thank the case manager and the Committee for their overall configuration. I think it shows a strength in the work of the Control and Constitutional Committee when we are able to gather on the setting in such an important field. For over 200 years, we've had a national audit that's been going on in the sumanes how the money we grant, and the decisions we make, become a practical policy. If changes have been to good services for people, and if gains have been realised, information is needed both when assessing what came out of old policies and whether new political approaches are needed. The last year has been demanding for the Riksaudition as for all of us. Despite the pandemic, we have received good reports that address the implementation of key priorities in areas such as police, psychiatry, fisheries and ICT security. I would like to thank the National Audit Office for the work. I would particularly like to highlight two studies dealing with several departments. The national audit must examine how policy objectives across the department are carried out, so that the state does not act as a multi-headed troll against municipalities and businessmen. In the spring, we have dealt with several issues relating to the operation of the National Audit Office. The Harberg selection discussed the role of the big organs more in principle, and now we have seen down a law selection for the Riksrevision. We want future debates on what good arrangements are made by the Riksrevisions. I think that's wise and correct. However, if the arrangements of the operation can be adjusted, the role of the National Audit Office as independent control body for the Stortinget is fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e556	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e573	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e580	We have one of the world's foremost and best legal systems, but we still have relatively long and comprehensive proceedings on particularly large criminal cases. When one thing takes time, other things are displaced. Matters of waiting often mean life on hold, and in the utmost consequence, time use can also provide unnecessary penalties. That's why it's very good politics to make sure that the world's best justice system also becomes a little more effective justice system, and that's what the Stortinge is doing today. Our keywords are good case preparation and active judicial management. Today, we adopt a number of wise measures that do not cost important principles, the quality of criminal proceedings or legal certainty. In some fields, even legal certainty is explicitly strengthened, e.g.: by tightening up the time limit for the manufacture of persons for custody or by legislating the list of central grounds for detention. We're also adding up to a more effective and far-reaching evidence interception helmet. A written examination of the procedural decisions of the court is proposed and there is also a clearer restriction on access to review of the procedural decisions. Another important proposal is to sharpen the aid lawyer system and ensure that the aid is concentrated on the insulted and abandoned who actually needs it, and I think that is good. We also make stricter demands on the task of proof, so that the court can better understand the matter and get involved in it. Here there is some disagreement in the committee, but we have noted that the proposed rules are necessary and well enough to ensure that they do not challenge the principle of primacy of proof and access to counter-dictation. In the course of the proceedings of the Judicial Committee, we have listened to the parties. We've been actively visiting the Judiciary's Association, we've been talking to prosecutors and police lawyers, and we've been talking very well to the Law Association. So the proposition has been adjusted to some points. We make an adjustment to the legal text so that the court cannot order the prosecution authority and the defenders to submit final statements. We believe that it is sufficient that the court strongly encourages this. Of course, if the defender does not want to comply with such an invitation for the sake of the right of readmission or the protection against self-incrimination, it must be respected. We also stress that the non-contribution to the response or the final insertion should not be held against the defendant. We believe that this is important for the sake of the presumption of innocence. With that, I take up the proposals from the Right and would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e595	The representative Peter Frölich has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e600	I would like to thank the Committee for its good and thorough cooperation in this matter. So I just want to say in my post that I'm dealing with it as both the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV say in our comments, so this is kind of a common post. First, I would like to point out that this is the second proposition in a year that changes the process in the courts without the government coming up with the overall review of the legislation, as some have said, and we believe that it is unfortunate. As regards the content of the proposition, both the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV support the main part of the proposals submitted. However, we believe that there are problematic aspects to three of the changes in the law. One is the proposal for a new § 265 on the extended obligation to provide information to the defendants in advance of the case. We believe that we are going too far towards challenging important principles of legal certainty, and we believe that that change will not provide the desired effectiveness that has been used. It can also act as a red tape for the defenders and take off their measured resources. § 274(c) to be able to order final submissions from the parties prior to the initiation of the proceedings, we consider that we may be unlucky. It may be unfortunate that a position on the legal and factual aspects of the case is required before the evidence is brought to justice. That is, as we see it, the actual evidence in the court that is to form the basis of the prosecution's claim, and there are several hearing bodies that point out that the proposal could lead to pressure being put on the court and the defender to clarify their position and that it could be detrimental to the defence of the defendant. In the case of Section 274(a) on granting the court unlimited access to the documents of the case, we are critical of that change, because we believe that it can break the principle of primacy – that is, that the court should take its decision based only on the evidence provided in the court – and with the principle of counter-dictation. It may be that police documents will be influenced by the views of police and prosecution authorities on the matter and that a free access to these documents can create an imbalance. However, we see that in major cases there may be reason for a preliminary judge to have access to the main documents of the case, and we have therefore made a proposal for a new section 274(a), which is in the recommendation. Finally, I would like to say that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre support the Right's proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e615	These are important legal changes that are needed to achieve more effective and secure criminal justice. I'm going to be reluctant to describe how the situation might be at times, but sometimes it turns out that some cases that go to court are more adapted – let's say – the members of the press than that it's about ensuring the legal certainty of the defendant. Ensuring effective criminal proceedings is very important. For this reason, the Progress Party fully supports the proposal, with the corrections for which it is a broad majority. I am obliged to point out that there is an error in the setting on the basis of an incursion. It is simply not correct that the Progress Party is associated with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party as regards § 274(c). We are in agreement with the Right and support all three proposals that have been put forward by the Right. We also work with the Committee where the Committee is set up. I hope it will be taken care of during the voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e626	It is duly noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e631	The government is concerned that the rules on the treatment of Norwegian criminal cases should be good and adapted to the crime we have today. The Criminal Procedures Committee in its time carried out a full review of how we deal with the criminal cases, with proposals for a new law. However, many of the basic frameworks and principles were proposed further. At the same time, some changes are needed. In particular, this is the case in the comprehensive cases. I have therefore now presented a proposal for amendments to the applicable criminal law, which will help to improve the effectiveness and legal certainty of Norwegian criminal proceedings. An important step proposed is to give greater importance to good case preparation and active judicial management in criminal matters. The Court of First Instance, acting on a proposal, shall adapt the preparation of the case to the matter in question, with a view to achieving effective and sound treatment. Active and clear management is important in comprehensive criminal proceedings so that the main negotiation can focus on the central theme and be conducted in a shorter period of time. This is facilitated by strengthening the effective legal basis for case management and by providing the right to more effective management tools. Another important proposal is the tightening of the deadline for the manufacture of persons for custody. We also propose changes that will provide greater flexibility between levels of the Public Prosecutor's Office, better tools to manage resources, and higher quality and more professional management. Some amendments to the Aid Advocates’ Scheme are also proposed, the right to limit the appointment mandate of the Aid Advocate and an explicit basis for the appointment of the Joint Aid Advocate. In addition to some other minor changes, it is proposed that the system of private criminal proceedings be terminated. I am pleased that an overall judicial committee is largely in favour of the changes that the government has presented. The minority of the Committee has proposed some additions to the provisions relating to extended responses and final statements, in order to underline the right of the accused to remain silent. Of course, this can be clarified in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e648	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e665	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e672	Today I am proud that we give the police staff the right to full compensation for the damage caused during the training. This has been a matter for the police, and I am pleased that we are delivering today. The aim is to ensure police officers and women with a more predictable system of occupational injury better adapted to the challenges posed by police assistance and tasks such as the civil apparatus of the State. Extensive training, exercise and realistic training are necessary to enable police personnel to handle risk-filled rescue and power exercises in the form of e.g.: apprehension, search, deployment and manufacture. The exercise of the operational training required may be risky and cause damage. It is therefore important to ensure a decent system of occupational injury. Policemen, like other workers, are victims of occupational injury during both service and training. The proposed compensation scheme should therefore also be subsidiary to the ordinary rules on professional injury. However, experience has shown that it is difficult for police officers to meet the general condition of accidents at work when injuries are caused by operational training. In relation to injuries arising during police surgery training, the problem has typically been that the damage is not considered to have occurred as a result of a sudden or unexpected incident and is not considered to be unusual in relation to the work of the police officer. The police have stated that the current rules on occupational injury have not been adapted to the challenges posed by police special duties and training needs. In the process of finding a solution, regulation in specific laws is chosen to avoid unintended consequences of changing the universal rules of the Swedish Social Security Act and the Occupational Insurance Act. The need to strengthen the protection of police workers injured during operational training has been examined and assessed by several teams in recent years and is sufficiently well established, in the view of the Department, to promote a legislative proposal to solve a problem specifically raised by the police action. In this case, reference is made to other professional groups which should have the same right to compensation as the one now granted to the police. On page 11 of the Proposition, it says that this issue is being considered in the ministry and, if necessary, is a matter to be referred back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e691	There is good reason to be satisfied that police officers are finally getting this system in place. Nevertheless, it is inconsequential that no other relevant professional groups are given the same opportunity. The Labour Party and the undersigned have raised this need on several occasions, including: in the case of persons employed in criminal matters. We were pleased that several of Erna Solberg's Justice Ministers have agreed to consider it. Yes, they have even expressed the injustice of this discrimination. But with Solberg's last Minister of Justice in the row, both the understanding and the willingness to treat people the same way. It is to hope that former Justice Ministers who may be in the Chamber now know their visit time. Both the LO and the Association of Lawyers have pointed out that the proposal for a separate system for police officers in the specific legislation appears to discriminate unfairly against other professional groups who have to train on realistic, risky scenarios, such as close fighting, evacuation and liberation. A more equitable change in the general provisions on occupational injury in the Swedish Social Security Act and the Occupational Insurance Act would therefore have been a better way to go. That this would be more time-consuming, as the ministry argues in the proposition, seems like a mere discharge. Erna Solberg's Ministry of Justice should have the greatest ability to implement this, all the time the government has spent a long time and up to several state councils to promote the case for Stortinget. The injustice in this case is evident in the hearing response of the Directorate of Criminal Welfare, which refers to the fact that there is just an employee from the criminal justice department who has now been through a case in Eidsivating law enforcement relating to this issue. The Directorate points out that the staff of criminal services are also in situations where sometimes power is needed to maintain peace, order and security. Employees must be fit to exercise power properly and carry out regular exercises in physical use of power and handling critical situations. Therefore, the KDI considers that there is a clear need for equal treatment between police and police officers in this area. If the amendment of the law is adopted and implemented for police staff without the same predictable system being also being provided to the staff of the criminal service, a regulation will be established in which two staff members in the justice sector have different rights in the event of similar events. Norsk Fengsels- und Freiorgensförbund has also clearly underlined that such discrimination is not acceptable to the government at present. It simply does not appear to be fair and fair that the government makes such discrimination. The Workers' Party records Red's loose proposals in the case. It is not difficult to support its intention, but we must ensure that we do not omit groups that should be included here either. The working party therefore wants a more complete device.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e702	The Progress Party supports this legislative change, let there be no doubt. We've long thought that this was a correct change. The police must also be compensated for the damage caused by the training. There is something that has been requested by police personnel, and it is good that the Storting now delivers on it. That's a change in the law of the police, that's a special law. I think it's a little important to understand that when we don't support the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Senter Party and the SV, it's not because we rule out that at a later stage we will also be involved in extending similar arrangements for other occupational groups. But we choose to listen to the ministry when they say you have it to assess. The Council of State says this is for evaluation in the ministry. I believe that we should wait for those assessments, and it is not natural to impose such a decision against a change in the police law – especially as it is a relatively blatant proposal, which does not allow for adjustments. Therefore, we reserve the right not to support that proposal, but we do not exclude that, at a later stage, once this assessment has been carried out, we will be involved in extending similar arrangements for other professions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e715	I am pleased that the Stortinge gave its support to a matter that has been important to police for several years. There is something as elementary as the fact that policemen who are injured in training will be compensated for professional injury if things go wrong. The Joint Police Association has been fighting for this matter for a long time. Their efforts have been important because today the Storing is correcting what has been an unfair system for police officers for too long. It is good that this is finally coming into place for police officers, but we have many other groups in similar occupations that are not covered by today's changes. Together with the Workers' Party and the SV, the Senterpartiet would like these professional groups to be covered by a similar scheme. Both the criminal services, the ambulance services and firefighters practice the required scenario and can be harmed in this context. Among other things, both police, fire services and ambulances operate with so-called PLIVO exercises. LO, the Association of Lawyers and the Association of Prisons and Welfare in Norway, all point to the paradox that only policemen should receive better compensation for occupational injury, without the other nudetaties or criminal services being covered by the same legislation. We in the Central Party, together with the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party, believe that these too should have access to such a system as police officers now have. When it comes to the loose proposal from Red, we don't fail to do anything about this later, but we mean this topic is a thorough clarification first.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e728	This is a matter that I was made aware of in a meeting with the police and the Police Union, together with other representatives of the government parties. They faithfully raised a problem that aroused political interest. I, the son of a former police officer, reacted with wonder. We would like to have a police force that is training intensively — and in such high-risk situations can cause lasting damage. I was then a member of the Labour and Social Committee and was able to discuss the matter with the then State Council Anniken Hauglie. The case has been difficult to define, and choosing the right department became part of the history – justice or employment and social affairs? Now the matter is processed and ready for implementation. Thank you to the colleagues in the Right and the Left and the Committee, and an extra thank you to the current Minister of Justice, who has dropped this until its realization. This will improve the working conditions of our beautiful police force, although hopefully this will be as limited as possible. Police, like other workers, are now covered by occupational injury, both in service and in training. The proposed compensation scheme becomes subsidiary to the ordinary occupational injury rules, but experience has shown that in some situations it is difficult for police officers to meet the general conditions of an accident at work when damage is caused by operational training. Police shall, through preventive, enforcement and ancillary activities, form part of society’s overall efforts to promote and consolidate the legal security, security and general well-being of its citizens. During the police's exercise of powers, power may be required. The police exercise power by e.g. apprehension, search, seizure, application and manufacture. To deal with such situations, training, exercise and training are required. Some police officers have experienced in training injuries that have not been recognised as a professional injury under previous legislation. We have and will have one of the world's best police forces. They undertake risky missions on behalf of the big community, and then we have to provide good framework conditions. But the Christian People's Party will, of course, for the future be involved in assessing whether other professional groups can have a similar need. Personally, I am very pleased that this is one of the last things I have been close to, and that comes to the decision in Stortinget just before I finish my major work. I have shadowed justice, and it has been demanding alongside other work, but I want to thank the government parties for a good cooperation. By this I would say that the Christian People's Party supports the proposals for the amendment of the police law that exists here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e745	I am very pleased that the Stortinget is dealing with this bill today, and that an overall judicial committee is joining in on the proposal for a new compensation scheme for policemen who are injured during the required training. The occupational injury coverage has long created uncertainty for police officers and for the implementation of the necessary and risky training provided by the police. The new compensation scheme will reduce uncertainty and follow-up needs for those injured during police training, typically response personnel. It will thus also facilitate more realistic training on scenarios such as terrorism, serious crime, armed operations, lifeguard service and other critical events. The legislative proposal ensures full compensation for damage caused by operational training which is not covered by the usual rules of the Occupational Indemnity Insurance Act. Anyone required to participate in police surgery training and likely to be harmed, either as an instructor, performer or caretaker, will be included. The system shall be effective and limited to cases where the uncertainty about the coverage and the need for specific protection is greatest. With special regulation, we avoid unintended consequences of changing universal compensation rules. With this amendment of the law, we guarantee the police a more predictable compensation system, better adapted to the specific challenges posed by the police's relief duties and tasks such as the state's civil power apparatus.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e756	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e761	Does the Council of State consider that there are major differences between, for example, the exercises of police and criminal services in physical use of power and the management of critical situations?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e767	I believe that there may be other groups that need different rules than what we have today. The assessment we have made now is linked to the police and the training intensity that has increased in recent years, to the challenges that have been seen and to the stories that have been given. I promised to deliver on this last year in the police report. I'm very happy that I'm reaching it while the Storting is still together. And then there'll be an assessment that has to be made with respect to other groups. A thorough assessment must be carried out; it should be strictly confined to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e772	When we know that the department has taken a relatively good time in this matter and the signals from many professional bodies, among other things. Nav, the Criminal Service, the Association of Lawyers and the Employees' Association, have been clear, good and indicative, why does the Council of State add to this discrimination? Would it really not be possible now to create a fair and good system adapted to all the professional groups that have this need?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e777	Three things: I don't recognize myself in the accusation of having spent a long time. I delivered the police message in record time in a corona half year, we had the legal rules at the hearing in the fall, and now we presented them and sent them to the Stortinget before Easter. I believe that we have worked very quickly just to get a chance to deal with this proposal. Then I see that the representative places an absolute similarity between different employees in the justice sector. I think there's a lot of similarities, but there's also a lot of differences. We have at least one basis for promoting this matter here today. As I say, if there are more groups to be evaluated, and the opposition wants many groups to be included – fire, health, criminal justice – it belongs in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which is responsible for that law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e784	I'll correct myself. It is not true that the State Council has spent a very long time, but the Ministry of Justice as such, and with several state councils, has spent a very long time, and this matter has been for discussion with up to several of Erna Solberg's Ministers of Justice. That's what I showed you. The Working Party considers that everyone is involved and therefore proposes today that all relevant professional groups should be treated in the same way as they are now for the police. The Council of State believes that the rights of police officers are more valuable than, for example, those of police officers. the rights of police officers in criminal custody?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e791	I am very well aware that the slogan of the Workers' Party is that everyone should join in. It's different from us, who want to invite everyone. This is about a lot more than political slogans. Everyone's not the same, and even though there's a lot of similarities, it's not that a job is necessarily the same as another job. It's e.g. such as in the Professional Insurers Act that firefighters and defence workers have their own rules relating to when they are called into incidents. That's how you have to go into each individual group, make an assessment of it. We present here a matter that I am very happy to present, and then I understand that the Workers' Party wants to focus on other groups and other issues. But it belongs constitutionally – at least in the width presented in the opposition’s proposal – in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e798	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e805	Finally, in this debate, I find reason to quote from Section 1 of the Police Act: «Member States shall provide the police service that society needs. Police through prevention, enforcement and assistance activities shall be part of society’s overall efforts to promote and consolidate the legal security, security and general well-being of its citizens.’;» [[...]] Police carry out tasks as described in Section 1 of the Police Act every single day, throughout the year, and are the power agency of society in peacetime. No other professional groups have been given a similar assignment by the country. Societal missions involve a high level of police risk and also give the state a high level of responsibility. In the ultimate sense, this profession is willing to risk life and health in order to solve its societal mission. The proposition also points to the fact that the need for special protection appears to be greatest in matters related to police operational training. I am very pleased that this system is now in place for the police, and then – as I said earlier – you may get back to the need for changes in other legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e819	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e836	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e841	The Committee submits to the Stortinget the position of a proposition proposing changes to the rule of exception for freedom of expression and freedom of information in the Data Protection Act – here we have to keep our tongues straight in the mouth, there are many, long words. The aim is that the legislative proposal should contribute to a clearer legal regulation related to the violation of Internet privacy. The Ministry proposes a new provision to penalise websites that publish personal data on the Internet in the interests of privacy. This is an increasing problem and has been addressed in different contexts in recent years. There is an increasing challenge in the balance between freedom of expression and privacy. The majority in the Committee think this has been a good proposal, it has been a sensible position, and proposals for decisions are presented by an overall committee. So a little bit more in detail: the Personal Information Act today makes exceptions to parts of the law for journalistic purposes, or for academic, artistic or literary statements. It is proposed – as agreed by the Committee – that this should continue to be exempted from the processing of personal data, but different circumstances should also be able to justify an assessment of the applicability of these exemptions. There are then factors such as whether the opinions are in the interests of society, whether or not they are linked to ethical challenges, there may be potential negative consequences, there may be an assessment of the impact of those opinions on the data subject or have a specific need for protection. So the proposal does not intend to make changes to editor-driven media. The law in force is to be continued, but these four conditions are to be applied more clearly for the purposes of this provision. The Committee is aware that the proposals present a complex issue, with different considerations in common – both freedom of expression and privacy. So the intention is to find a better balance to make it easier to practice this for the Data Protection Agency, and in particular for the treatment that takes place in the unregulated part of journalism. So I'm just going to use ten seconds to mention that there is also a proposal for a new provision on deferred transparency of matters for the EOS Committee. Consequently, no grounds for refusal of access are laid down. Thank you to the Cooperation Committee on this matter. It has been technically complicated, but we have come through well and we trust that we will get a good bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e858	I had planned an article on my own, but it seems that the rapporteur has explained the matter well. It's technically complicated, but still very important. I would like to thank the Committee for a good work and a unanimous vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e863	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e880	At the request of the Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e887	In this case, amendments to the Administrative Act are proposed. The proposals shall facilitate a greater level of information sharing between administrative bodies in order to carry out tasks added to the body of delivery or destination and in relation to the processing of such information. The proposed regulatory body will open up rules on the sharing of information in areas where current legislation does not meet the sharing needs. A new provision is also proposed which allows the sharing of information related to professional secrecy in order to avoid risks to life and health and some changes in the access to the sharing of information related to professional secrecy under the Specialist Health Services Act, the Health and Care Services Act, the Social Services Act and the Nav Act. The proposals will bring the rules of these laws more into line with the general rules of the Administrative Act and provide for a slightly higher level of freedom to share information with other administrative bodies. The purpose of the proposal for extended sharing rights is, inter alia, to: adapting the legislation to the organisation of the administration today. The Administrative Law Committee refers to the difficulty of accessing the existing rules on professional secrecy, while specialisation and the cultivation of functions have led to tasks previously undertaken by one administrative body being divided between two or more bodies. This makes management rules and exchange of information even more important than in the past. Without a relative level of access to the exchange of confidentiality-related information across organ boundaries, the rules could impede appropriate organisation. The proposal shall contribute to a better decision-making basis for the management body than they would otherwise have. Initially, a proposal for the first paragraph of Section 13(b) for a provision allowing the sharing of information relating to confidentiality was sent at the hearing to the extent necessary to carry out tasks added to the body. There have been many hearings on this subject and some disagreements between the hearing bodies. It is therefore necessary to follow up many and, in part, comprehensive input, which concludes that this proposal is not being followed up at this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e900	Employment crime is a major challenge, and the Labour Party believes that there is a need for a clean-up of the labour market. That is why we are promoting more proposals in this matter in order to strengthen the fight against crime at work. For there is still a lot to be done in the fight against crime at work in Norway. Firstly, a report by Ecocrime on the legal basis that the police have had to participate in the cross-border cooperation at the a-crime centres shows that the police have probably had a practice of participation that has not been permitted by law. We believe it is critical that after seven and a half years the government has not ensured that the basis for cross-border cooperation at the a-crime centres is clarified. It does not help to set up a-krim centres if the establishments do not have the necessary prerequisites for effective cooperation. It is also the case that the Solberg government has been criticised by the National Audit Office for having had a weak and low deterrent effort against occupational crime. The government has assigned more and more tasks to the Labour Inspectorate, while cutting budgets year after year. This has led to the fact that the department has had to cut the number of employees and that fewer and fewer controls are being carried out. When serious work-life-criminal cases are resolved due to lack of resources and priority, we believe it sends a signal that the risk of serious work-life crime is very low. Close cooperation between various public bodies is essential for the success of the fight against crime at work. Therefore, it is positive that the government is now finally presenting a proposal for increased access to information sharing between the agencies. But we believe the government is too short. In the response of the LO, they point out, inter alia: the information-sharing proposal involves access only and not an obligation to share the information. The LO considers it necessary to investigate an information obligation based on the Swedish information obligation model. The majority of the Committee, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre believe that a solid and comprehensive commitment is now required to the a-krim centres and the cooperating agencies by providing them with increased resources, increased authority and by resolving any doubts about homes in cooperation around a-krim cases and participation in joint actions. That is why we are promoting proposals on, inter alia: a clear authorisation to participate in the supervision of the a-krim centres. We are promoting proposals for an economic escalation plan to ensure that the whole country is covered by labour crime centres and an incentive mechanism to support local initiatives. Furthermore, we ask the government to come back with proposals that give executive agencies increased authority to stop illegal activities. It's about time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e919	This is probably a legislative amendment which comes from the government and which has broad support in the committee and, of course, also support from the Progress Party. It is important to facilitate the sharing of information between departments in order to combat crime. I also agree with a lot of what has been said from different teams. We also read the hearing opinion from LO. It may be that you should go a little bit further, but once again I think it might be wise for you first to see how these changes work. Secondly, the proposals put forward by the other opposition parties are very absolute in their approach. You make a firm statement; you 'are the government'. This is something I think first of all must be based on experience if we are to go further, and further, it should also be investigated, not just stated that it should be done. I also strongly agree that the fight against economic crime is in no way satisfactory as it is today. We've done some steps that I hope will give good results. We have earlier this week discussed withdrawal, etc., which are also issues. But this is a step in the right direction. The Progress Party supports the amendment of the law. We do not support the proposals put forward by the other opposition parties in dealing with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e928	The job done to prevent and suppress crime involves cooperation between public authorities. The central party is pleased that the law is now, hopefully, clarified when it comes to information sharing within the administration. At the same time, it is strange that it has taken the government several years to present such changes. The police, health services and municipalities are often involved when it comes to people with drug and psychiatry problems. This is an example of a field where today's legislation has been too unclear, and stakeholders have called for better regulation. The government has put forward a series of action plans, strategies, etc. which requires a joint effort across the etats. When one at the same time has known that in many cases the law prevents such interaction, it seems hollow. Return your municipality, police, health services, customs, criminal services, Nav, Labour Inspectorate, tax havens and others who will try to navigate between all these beautiful words and plans on one side, and a law that has partly prevented them from doing the job properly, on the other hand. The Central Party supports all the proposed changes and hopes that they will contribute to better cooperation and information flows between the ETAs in terms of life, health and the fight against crime. At the same time, the Central Party believes that the problems associated with the sharing of information between etatars are not being cleared up by the way with today's changes of promise. That is why, together with the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party, we make more proposals to improve the response to the crime of working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e937	SV also supports the bill, so I should not repeat the good arguments that have been put forward for it. We also support the strengthening of the a-krim work, as Mr Henriksen presented. I'm not going to repeat those arguments either, because they were finely presented. But in our treatment of this, we also have a small supplement, because this is not just about working life crime and increasing access to information sharing to combat it. It is also the case that this law provides for the sharing of information between different administrative bodies, also linked to highly vulnerable groups — children, young people, drug addicts, etc. – and we support access to information sharing about this, precisely in order to strengthen the provision and services of these groups. But we believe that if this is to be done in a good way, we need to guarantee the rights of those people, and especially the children who are exposed to this sharing of information between the administrative bodies. We have noticed that the Change Factory and also the Children's Ombudsman can tell that children hesitate to tell about their own situation, for example. an infringement, if they do not know what that information is to be used for, or if they do not know who to share that information with. It is definitely a challenge, and I believe that this bill will be strengthened if we manage to put into the text a kind of clarity that guarantees the fundamental rights. I have even met children who have been subjected to abuse and who have withheld material information because they have not been properly informed of what the information they provide is to be used to meet some government agency or child protection, school or health. So we're making a proposal here on a regulation to the Administrative Act that children should have the right to know who gets the information, and who will share it with. It is not to be demeaned for the whole of the bill, but we believe that this will strengthen the law in a very substantial way. With that, I'm submitting SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e950	The representative Petter Eide then drew up the proposal he referred to. If the Stortinget has now listened to its Civil Defense Typhoons with ‘Important message, listen to radio’, now the signal ‘Faren over’.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e957	I can't help thinking that we need a new system before the alarm goes, and we're working on it. Although Norwegian working life is generally characterised by orderly conditions and good conditions for workers, labour crime remains a major problem in parts of the world of work. Crime at work has serious consequences for the workers, businesses and society in general. It can lead to reduced value creation and weaken the basis for our well-being. In order to maintain confidence in Norwegian working life, it is essential that laws and regulations are followed and criminal actors are reduced as much as possible. It is important that public bodies be able to share information that can reveal work-life crime. The Government has therefore submitted proposals for amendments to the Administrative Act and some related changes to other laws. The central proposal provides a new basis for the Administrative Act to provide for access to the sharing of confidentiality-related information between administrative bodies in order to fulfil the tasks attached to the bodies and the further processing of such information. The regulatory body will provide for rules on the sharing of information in areas where current legislation does not meet the need for sharing and will facilitate a more consistent approach to information sharing. Enhanced sharing will strengthen and facilitate important cooperation in combating crime at work, both within established a-crime centres and in other contexts. At the same time, it is important that confidentiality and privacy considerations are respected in the context of the sharing of information. Therefore, the proposed act provides only for the provision of rules on the sharing of information between specific administrative bodies and only in so far as it does not constitute a disproportionate interference with the information to which it relates. The legislative proposal also contains a new provision in the Administrative Act which allows for the sharing of information in order to avoid risks to life and health. The proposal concerns emergency-law-like cases and provides for a limited exemption from the obligation of professional secrecy. The government also proposes some changes to the rules on the sharing of information in the Special Health Services Act, the Health and Care Services Act, the Social Services Act and the Nav Act. The proposals will bring these rules more into line with the rules of the Administrative Act and give a slightly greater opportunity to share information with administrative bodies other than today. This facilitates better and simplified cooperation between public bodies. It is good that a joint committee is behind the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e974	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e979	The Labour Party is pleased with the changes that are coming, but it is far from enough, as Martin Henriksen pointed out, and so are those who work at the a-krim centres. They say that some of the things that hinder their work most is what prevents them from sharing information. Although these things are a step in the right direction, the uncertainty will still be there. What is disproportionate? What is in emergency law? The questions will remain there. Then we have to point out that the Swedes have understood. They have a law that removes all professional secrecy between the actors working at a-krim centres. Why will the Council of State and the Right not be involved in assessing the Swedish law, which clears any doubt that information that is important to stop the criminal actors can be shared?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e987	There's a lot of reasons we're going to take when we make a law house like this. As the representative is probably aware, there were many and conflicting recordings in the hearing. That's why we've concentrated on this part, because it's urgent, and it's been lying for too long without being sent to the Stortinget. I think this is very important, and I think it will solve for a lot. Then some of the questions asked by the representative will be solved in the regulatory work. The regulatory work will now be done by a working group which has met, consisting of those who actually work on this, and which will enable us to detail in the regulations precisely the questions that the representative had, but then by taking into account both the need to share information and the need for privacy, in order to ensure that it is provided with information.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e994	This is not a new proposal. The Workers' Party, together with the trade union movement, together with those who work at the a-krim centres, has fought for several years. With all the reservations made by the Council of State, and also in the basic work of the case, it seems that the government is more concerned with the privacy of the criminals than with stopping these actors. I think that's unfortunate. That is why the Workers' Party will ensure that this is put in place if we come to government for the harvest. Another issue that is a challenge for those who work at the a-krim centres is what was discovered just before Christmas, namely that the government has not even clarified that the police have the authority to participate in actions directed by the a-krim centres. It must be embarrassing for the government, which uses the a-crime centres as its straw when it comes to criticism of the lack of response to the crime of working life, that they have not even provided for it. Now the right parties are also voting against a proposal from the Workers' Party that would have cleared up any doubt about it. Why is there such resistance in the Right and in the Council of State to ensuring that the police have their homes cleared up?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1003	It is in my opinion that the Workers' Party has talked a lot and much about the importance of a-crime cooperation, but nothing was done. This was not a priority when you were in government. You had every chance of doing that. We've prioritised it. The Prime Minister has managed the work himself. Several departments, several underlying agencies, have been involved with the social partners. We have regular annual meetings. We've made strategies, we've updated the strategies, we've changed the law, we've prioritised resources, and we've set up a-crime centers. There's an extensive work going on. It is true that the police have been involved in the actions, but a question arose about the legal basis in the context of a report made by Ecocrime. Of course, it is possible that the government should have discovered what the police themselves were not aware of. We didn't. That report has been under assessment by the Police Directorate. I am waiting for a response at any time these days. The verbal feedback is that they don't think there's any problem with the basis of the house.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1010	While the state council and the government assess and investigate and write and process time, those who work at the a-krim centres do not know how to deal with this. A letter has been sent out saying the police are not going to participate in actions directed by the a-krim centres, and they just have to deal with that. As a result, work is significantly weakened. This is not difficult. It's just to get laid down in the police law that the police have the right to participate in these actions, and then that case is resolved. It seems the government doesn't want to. Is this about unwillingness, or is it about inability?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1015	So the police have been involved in this cooperation. Then there was a report from Ecocrim. We could of course not review that report. We could say that we don't care much about that. We didn't. We asked the Police Directorate, who has the professional follow-up responsibility, to review the report, and they have done so. The representative probably understands that the police directorate has also had a lot to do, but they have prioritised this important work because we prioritize it. It is such that I am waiting for a report on this any day. The verbal feedback today – because I was going to Stortinget and I thought it was a question – is that you don't think you need a home. Then you don't have to adopt a warrant. Then the work can go further, because it's important, and we prioritise it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1022	In that case, it's very uplifting if you can come to that conclusion. Then the question of the state council will immediately ensure that a new letter is sent to the a-krim centres, for the letter that has already been sent to the police districts, they have to deal with it. Will the Council of State, when the feedback comes from the underlying office, ensure that she immediately clears all doubts, and ensure that the police have a clear and clear authority to participate in such actions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1027	Just to be very clear: the police's basis for criminal proceedings has never been in doubt. A report, an investigation, a tip – everything – is managed as it should, under the criminal law. It is also the case that the police participated — and continue to participate — in actions with other public agencies. What has been the question is what operational agents the police have in the action. I hope we've clarified that in a very few days. In that case, of course, I will make sure that a new letter expires, so that there is no doubt about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1032	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1039	What was discovered before Christmas about the police's lack of authority to participate in actions directed by the a-crime centers was very serious and very surprising, and it made the entire a-crime campaign to the government completely collapse. The A-krim bet, which the government has used as its straw straw, namely the a-krim centres, has not been well enough allowed. We have seen that in a number of areas, and we are promoting proposals today that would clean up a lot of it. One is about the lack of resources. The whole of Norway is still not covered by a-krim centres. The northernmost a-krim centre is today in Bodø. There are signals from the government that a new one should be created in Troms and Finnmark, it was well, but still lacks the Inland a-crime centre, and there are considerable holes. The second is that there's too little resources at each a-krim centre. It has not been well enough prioritised, and it has not been well enough clear-cut and dedicated resources for that work. It has done that when you have discovered things or been on actions and see that there are things you have to work on, there has not been enough priority in the lines either. This has been particularly evident in the resources of the police, which have been very deficient. It's also about the incentives to participate in these actions, as we mentioned earlier. We know how loyal the police are to the directives and the messages that are given, and not least how much uncertainty there is about what the basis of the law is and how afraid you are of making mistakes. It is pointed out in this report that the police may break the law on some occasions by participating in actions directed by the a-krim centres. Then it goes without saying that you are going to be sitting and waiting for how this should be understood. I am pleased with what the council says, and we have to expect that there will be a message immediately that there is full access to participate in actions. If we don't have to clean it up by getting a clarification into the police law when we go to government for the harvest – or if we go to government for the harvest. I have to take that reservation. So it's the obligation of confidentiality, which also spreads a considerable uncertainty, where people don't know exactly what to do with. When one does not have an obligation to share information, or does not have free access to it, but refers to emergency law, and that there should be no disproportionate grip, then people will still be unsure whether they have access to sharing information. So the government really hasn't solved any of the world's things with what's being presented. The latter is more stringent sanctions. It is absolutely essential that the sanctions are dissuasive and that the values generated by the criminals in the workplace are taken out. Here's a big cleanup job that needs to be done. We're going to start it after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1052	I am pleased that an overall committee sees the need for close cooperation and sharing of information in order to succeed in the fight against labour crime. When I heard the post at Arild Grande, I was a little surprised, at least considering the feedback I received that this with the a-krim centres and the cooperative there seems very good. There must be no doubt that this government has a high focus on a serious and decent working life. Since 2015, seven labour-life crime centres have been established, both in Bergen, Stavanger, Oslo, Kristiansand, Trondheim and Bodø, and in addition, cooperation between the departments and other authorities in other parts of the country is established without permanent co-location. As the Council of State had in mind, a separate strategy of 43 measures to address this challenge has been put forward. Police are involved in all seven a-krim centres and in controls with other authorities. The police are also working against the crime of working life through Ecocrim. The police department is concerned that they should participate in this cooperation in the same way as other agencies, of course within the current rules, but to present this as black and white, that nothing happens, sounds very strange to me. The opposition criticises what is happening to the Swedish scheme and that this has not been established. The ministry’s feedback is that these issues will be considered in the preparation of regulatory proposals. So a comment to the representative Petter Eide, who calls for the fundamental rights of children, that it should be stated in the regulation of the administrative law. It is true that the regulatory body we are dealing with today implies that the details are regulated in each regulation, and if a regulation on the sharing of information relating to children is given, it will be designed in line with the best interests of the child. There is an obligation under the Convention on the Rights of the Child which permeates all legal and regulatory work carried out by the Norwegian authorities at all times. A new Children's Protection Act is being adopted today in Stortinget. I do not have the wording, but there are also comments that mention exactly what the representative Petter Eide refers to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1067	I have no intention of withdrawing this debate. I also had no intention of taking part in the debate that the representative of Grande is raising. I just felt the need to contribute a correction of errors, to a fact, namely that the a-krim centre in Troms and Finnmark is not a government signal, but something the Progress Party has agreed with the government on in connection with the treatment of the revised national budget. That's what they say. It's a little bit important to emphasize. I come from Troms and Finnmark myself. I will challenge the representative of Grande to remain in the Chamber after we have finished dealing with this matter, and listen to the next case. When he calls for more punishment, or more severe reactions, as he mentions, against labour-life crime, financial crime, he can say that. Now I'm going to provoke a little bit, but Norway is the country where you can get lower penalties to rape a child than you get to commit the crime of working life. It is a reality. I challenge the representative of Grande to sit and participate in the discussion on serious criminal matters and the Norwegian level of punishment, because there are a little different issues than just the topic being discussed here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1075	The President will state that it is this debate, on the crime of working life, that we are going to deal with now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1080	I can assure you that the Workers' Party is the most present throughout the day and in the debates that will be, so it does not need Per-Willy Amundsen to be particularly concerned about. But he is quite right that it was the Progress Party that got the pressure in place a new a-krim centre, and we can give the Advance Party the necessary recognition for that. That's what today's government has been like. The a-krim centres that have arrived have largely come through the fact that it has been forced through the budgetary partners of the government, especially then by the Christian People's Party. Before the Christian People's Party joined the government, it was those who forced money into a-crime centers. There is evidence of a government that has never really fully prioritised this – not to set up its own centres itself, not to increase the resources of the centres, nor to provide the necessary clarifications, on which we have spent enough time in the debate, so I will not extend the debate any more. I can only end by saying that Ingunn Foss thinks it sounds strange, what we're saying about the police's lack of opportunity to participate in actions directed by the a-krim centers. A letter has been issued to the police districts that they should not participate in such actions until the necessary legal basis has been established. The proposals of the Workers' Party would have been received by Ingunn Foss from those who work at the a-crime centre in Kristiansand, if she had met them. For these are the ones we, Kari Henriksen, me, actors from the trade union movement and the Workers' Party, have met, among others. those who work at the a-krim centre in South Africa, who say that this is what they need to make this a-krim centre effort a success. Ingunn Foss may find it strange. That she does not listen to the Workers' Party, gets to be her and the Right cause, but you can try to listen to those who work at the A-Crimen Centres, so maybe there are some lights up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1089	When, for once, the Progress Party chooses to put its foot in a debate on labour crime and working life, the representative Amundsen chooses not to support – or talk about – measures that can strengthen the job against the crime of working life. The Progress Party chooses not to respond to the challenge of eliminating the question of professional secrecy, and does not talk about how to have stronger responses to labour-related crime or provide a-crime centres across the country. It might not be so strange in terms of the story. After seven years and seven Justice Ministers, this was not a priority field, and there was little happening on the guard of the Advance Party, including the former Per-Willy Amundsen Council. Today, the Progress Party is voting against the proposal to strengthen the job against the crime of working life, whether there is a clear basis for taking part in the supervision of the a-krim centres, an economic escalation plan for the whole country to be covered by a-krim centres, or to give increased authority to stop illegal activities or to give several warrants for actions to executive agencies such as the Labour Inspectorate, the Tax Agency, the Nav and the Customs Authority. Then there is a vague excuse when the representative Amundsen chooses to talk about the next case, about privacy violations, instead of discussing the actual content of the case and what to do against work-life crime. It shows, first and foremost, the lack of understanding and efforts by the Progress Party to clean up working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1098	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1115	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1122	The case concerns proposals from the Progress Party on the tightening of penalties in the event of a number of serious integrity violations, and they promote several legislative proposals, including: on an increased criminal framework. It is only the Progress Party in the Committee that supports these proposals. Proposalers believe that the starting point should be to judge for each offence you commit, when you commit more offences – regardless of how long the prison sentence could be imposed. There are some countries that have opted for such a solution, that they get full punishment for each offence and then add it to one sentence. In Norway, we have chosen other principles, which are used to measure punishment for the most serious crime, and to impose other offences on it, as criminal atrocities. Let there be no doubt: the Labour Party believes that serious crime should be severely punished. We are not opposed to tightening up penalties if necessary, and if the punishment is effective. However, finding the right balances between levels of punishment, general prevention considerations, justice and the care of the victim requires more thorough treatment with consultation rounds and proper investigation – more thorough than individual proposals such as this presented by the Advancement Party. So it's like the Storting has not long since rejected similar proposals. In December 2016, the Right-wing Party Government issued a similar proposal. In the consultation round, several actors were critical – the Law Association, the LO, the Oslo State Attorney's Office, the Judicial Association and the Riksadvokat were critical. They showed, among other things: in order to increase the penalties for serious integrity violations relatively recently. That proposal was voted down in 2017 by the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Environment Party of the Greens. Serious crime must be severely punished. But I must point out that for the Workers' Party, it is all the more serious now that many victims of crime have to stand in long and unworthy queues, while criminals are given a penalty discount because the capacity in the criminal chain is blown up. In rape cases, the reality is that many people feel that the perpetrator goes free. The legal certainty of the victims is the most important thing, and there should have been a much greater effort here, both from the government and from the Progress Party. It is more important to ensure that cases are brought before the courts, to condemn perpetrators and to ensure the safety of victims than to make proposals that have a unclear effect on the number of serious integrity violations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1135	Criminals convicted of more than one criminal offence are given a common penalty for all offences taken together. Once the perpetrator has committed several criminal acts, this is often referred to as a clash of crimes. This penalty would normally be stricter than the most serious offence would qualify for alone, but at the same time be lower than if the penalties which would have been imposed for each single offence had been added together. The right agrees with the Advance Party that in many of these cases it can be seen that the penalty is too low and that it may be contrary to the general legal position. It may also appear worrying that one killing has the same punishment as several killings. In 2017, the government proposed that, if an offender has committed several crimes with a prison sentence of up to 15 years or more, it should be able to be sentenced to imprisonment for up to 26 years. This is an increase in the current maximum penalty of 21 years, and the proposal was voted down in Stortinget. The intention of the draft representative is supported by the right. It is worrying that, in some cases, the limit of the maximum penalty is reached at the time of the first breach of integrity, and thus the other infringements are not adequately reflected in the penalty. However, the current government platform does not open up to changes in the penalties imposed during this period. We have to deal with this. The right has adopted a 26-year maximum penalty for several serious criminal offences in its major election programme for the period 2021-2025 and is thus being voted on by the proposers here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1150	Recently, there was a verdict in Oslo District Court where six young men were sentenced to group rape for a 15-year-old child and for keeping her down while they raped her, on two occasions. They posed threats of killing. All of this was convicted in Oslo District Court. It's not a law-enforced verdict, but the punishment is almost impossible to believe. For these very serious crimes, these six young people were sentenced to a sentence ranging from 420 hours of community service to 60 days of prison. That's the penalty level in Norway anno 2021. That's the reality out there. I do not take a position on the individual judgment, but I believe it must be possible to raise the question of whether it is reasonable that a type of serious crime such as this can get so low a criminal measure – certainly not if the Progress Party is allowed to decide. We are very clear that we want to increase the penalties considerably, and we want to increase the maximum penalty to 50 years in prison. The document on the table here today, as opposed to what the rapporteur claims, is a relatively cautious change. It is a change that has been well investigated, for it was promoted in 2017 by the government of Solberg, by the Right and the Advance Party, and it is a relatively cautious tightening. I understand that the Right is in a bit of a difficult mess here, because they can't follow up on what they have in their own program. But even there are no parties other than the Progress Party that support it. That means accepting the kind of punishment level that we see in Oslo District Court results. This means that you don't want to implement criminal law, have criminal frameworks, which protect the people out there most people see as fair and right. It's serious, and it only helps to create mistrust of the state of law. I would like to comment on our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1163	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1168	In recent years, the Progress Party has presented a whole series of proposals for stricter penalties. They have run an ideological crusade with a basic idea that the more severe the penalties are, the less crime it is. They did not get a pass on this in the government – it confirmed Per-Willy Amundsen just now in his post – and they have not got a pass on any of this in Stortinget. It is not that there is an automatic link between more severe penalties and less criminality; it is much more complex. A great deal of crime occurs in the affected or in the intoxication, and the person who does so does not, of course, assess the level of punishment when the action takes place. Fortunately, there is low crime in Norway. In fact, there are very few prisons, and the development of crime in Norway is not very alarming either, so it really has to be asked whether this type of proposal is necessary, as we have now seen in the Stortinget – everyone has been rejected. If you focus only on the level of penalties such as combating crime, the main challenge is also with this type of proposal to camouflage a number of other issues that are also important for combating crime, such as: social relationships. Many young offenders have grown up in homes with considerable care challenges; almost all have been under the wings of child protection, and very many are growing up in poverty. The Progress Party does not show any interest in looking at such background issues, which also lead to crime. The causes of crime are very complex, and of course it is not just about the fact that there is a low level of punishment in Norway. When we're going to fight crime, we're going to have to deal with it with a big menu of instruments. Not least, legislative proposals must be thoroughly investigated, and we must be absolutely sure that they work. When the Progress Party presents a concrete bill in Stortinget, they have no evidence that it works, they have not attached any facts, and they have not carried out any investigation at all. It is very irresponsible to invite Stortinget to this kind of debate, and I also believe that it revolves around the relationship between Stortinget's tasks and the government's tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1177	I'll make this relatively short. As others have pointed out, the government promoted this proposal a little over four years ago, and it had similar content with what is now being promoted by the proposers. The bill followed a judicial policy objective in the Sundvolden platform between the Right and the Advance Party to increase the level of penalties where more offences are committed. The reason was that it was thought that current criminal investigation practices did not give sufficient attention to the individual offences in cases where the perpetrator had committed repeated or extensive crime. In the case of a number of serious integrity violations, it was considered that the individual infringement should have a greater impact on the overall punishment. This was meant to indicate that society is very serious about crimes that involve serious integrity violations. There is no doubt that there are violations that have a major adverse effect on both the offended, the relatives and the community. The government’s proposal was, as is well known, rejected by the Stortinget — it was not adopted — and in the later Granavolden platform, government parties have intervened in order to maintain the general penalty level during the flooding period. Of course, we're all dealing with this, and we don't want to be in favour of such a proposal now, in line with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1184	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1189	It may be a little strange that when the representative Amundsen and the Progress Party are standing here and commenting on the fact that the minimum penalties are too low, it is in one case where they have proposed to do something about the maximum penalty, i.e. not a proposal that will do anything about the Progress Party actually took up here in the Chamber. What I want to ask the Council of State is the political signals from the Right, what they will give priority to in the justice sector if they continue. Today, for many victims, the reality is that they have to wait for a long time in court, the perpetrators are often not taken or convicted, and this is a major challenge. In this case, the Right is clear that they support the intentions of the proposal. The Christian People's Party and the Left prevent them from voting in favour. The question is the signal from the Right, on which they will give priority to the department's resources if they continue: Is it this type of proposal, or is it to ensure the legal certainty of the victims, that perpetrators are taken and convicted, which is actually the most important thing now?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1196	I'm not going to take on any party leader role for the Right here in this room and in this case, but what I'm absolutely sure is that we're going to continue working the same way we've done now, by strengthening the police, strengthening the prosecution authority, strengthening the higher prosecution authority and strengthening the courts. It's about the ability to prioritise the most important thing. What we know is that since we've strengthened the police with people and capacities and a lot more resources in this period, we're now spending most of our time on the most serious issues. This is among the most serious. So, on our side, that priority is perfectly clear, and I am now putting the last hand on the work both on a big message about criminal care, where the position of the victims needs to be strengthened, and on an action plan on violence in close relations, where the role of the victims needs to be strengthened. There's no doubt that while the perpetrators zone and then come out, the victim will never be finished with gross crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1202	I have great respect for the principle of power distribution and that we distinguish between legislative and judicial power. But as an illustration of the Norwegian penalty level, I chose in my post to refer to a very serious rape case of a child here in the capital, where the persons – of course because they are under 18 years old, it is part of Norwegian law that you get a penalty discount for it – have repeatedly raped the same child and receive a punishment that varies between 420 hours of community punishment and 60 days of prison. The judgment is, to a large extent, not legal, and I expect it to be appealed, but independently of that matter: does the Minister of Justice think that we can be aware of such a low level of punishment in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1209	I will not comment on any single matter at all. There are many terrible stories about people who are seriously assaulted, and we have to take this seriously. It must be marked by the criminal law, and it must be marked by the level of punishment. The representative indicates that the suspected offender in some cases is under 18 years of age. I am concerned that, in addition to looking at the level of penalties, we are looking at the content of the juvenile sentence. Today, there is a need to choose between a youth plan, which is about giving young people work, education and the ability to re-establish themselves, and prison. I believe flexibility in this area is very important, and we have had proposals relating to this at the hearing. In general, we like to look at the level of punishment. We've been doing that for eight years. And we'd like to do that for the next eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1218	Unlike the rapporteur's misrepresentation of my statement and our proposals, the proposals we come into the Chamber are relevant to the specific matter. Because it's about the upper penalty framework. In both of these cases, the persons in the case I referred to are convicted under Section 263, which has a upper sentence of 21 years imprisonment. The problem is that when you do the same kind of gross, intimidating, criminal act, you get a penalty discount. You get less punishment than you would have received on a case-by-case basis. I understand that the Council of State has some obligations towards the small parties that sit with her in government, but does the Council of State believe that the Right – if it were possible to form such a political majority – would contribute to the Progress Party that we actually got a majority for the proposal that is on the table today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1225	I don't intend to wonder what would happen if a completely different constellation was present. I'm dealing with who I have. I believe that the Granavolden platform is also very good in the field of justice and preparedness. So it's that different parties in both magnification and government can have different views on different parts of a platform. We're dealing with the platform we have, and besides that, I can't speculate about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1230	The specific matter I talked about has not been mentioned in Norwegian media. It might say a little about Norwegian media that they don't care about matters like this. The only people who have mentioned this matter are document.no, which is an alternative medium, who wrote about this matter for several rounds, and who were banned from reporting and had to withdraw several articles that had been published on the matter. It seems to me to be very problematic that you seem to have a very low threshold for using the ban, which means that the public – the media, journalists, etc. – not as much transparency and opportunity to write about what are important political issues, namely the level of penalties in Norway. Does the Council of State consider that it is appropriate to consider limiting the use of the right to impose a ban on minutes?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1239	I just think I have to be terribly honest with the representative and say that I lack the professional basis to answer the question. I do not know the matter. I don't know the reason. I don't know the court's decision. But it is in this room that the framework for both the criminal law and the criminal law is set, so that you are free to make proposals related to this, as the representative has done today, and then it becomes a political assessment. When it comes to managing the law, the court is going to do it with the reasons they have, and we're not going to think about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1248	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1255	Serious crime must be severely punished, and the maximum penalty competition between the Right and the Progress Party could be fun to participate in. Right-hand says they're going to vote for stricter punishments, 26 years old, the Progress Party will have 50 years. The Labour Party is going to vote for people to be punished. After eight years in the Judicial Committee, I have received so many messages from victims of crime who are in long, unworthy queues, while criminals receive penalties. We get messages from women who are selected and who cannot send the police message. We know about issues that have been eliminated due to capacity, and we know of an prosecution crisis, which leads to even longer queues. Let it be clear: we do not refuse to discuss the level of punishment, but I notice that representatives from the parties that have run the country for eight years are more interested in talking about the level of punishment than about the content of the police work, the prevention work, the investigation promise, which one has not provided, or solving the charge crisis. It's just a matter of fact. I might understand that, because one has not been able to deliver much of that promised when one went to the elections eight years ago. So where the Right Party and the Progress Party are now going to go to elections on more severe punishments and take that debate, we are going to vote that victims of crime are going to have a strengthened legal security, and that those who commit crime can get punished saying. This is the last debate in the Judicial Committee during this four-year period. I would like to thank the Committee for its very good cooperation, discussions, disagreements and consensus. I would like to extend my special thanks and congratulations to those of the members of the Committee who do not take a stand for the Storting, and who have perhaps also been on the Chair for the last time today. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1266	The President would like to add that this committee shows good collective self-justice in its debates, insofar as the Council of State is also.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1271	I feel the need to correct some errors that have arisen during this debate. The President and the representative Eide repeats and claims from the pulpit that this is irresponsible because it has not been investigated. Well, this is a proposal that was submitted by the government in 2017, which the Council of State has confirmed. If it's not figured out, I don't know. Of course, there was an extensive investigation in the Ministry of Justice. This is one of the few representative proposals that have been promoted in the Stortinget that have really been thoroughly investigated – so those claims are repugnant. Then I register that the representative Awake! believes that you get the punishment you get, and that she is not so concerned with the punishment. She talks about everything else. I can agree with some of that – namely that there should not be cows, neither cows, in which the red-greens were masters, nor cows to wait for cases to be brought before the courts. We can agree on that. But if you use it as an argument for not discussing the core of the case, namely that people get social punishment for 420 hours for having raped a child – that’s the core of this case, not queueing before the courts – then at least the Workers’ Party has been placed in the political landscape. This applies insofar as all the other parties except the Progress Party, because here the Progress Party is safe alone – in fact, we believe that people should receive a fair punishment when they commit criminal acts. We can't have a penalty level that most people out there just can't accept. That is the reality today. Most people think the level of punishment — especially in cases like the one I used as an example — is far too low, and we should take that into account in this room. Then I can follow up on the somewhat philosophical discussion that the representative Eide took about whether punishment works, and socio-economic conditions – these classic issues that the left side often comes up with. There are many reasons for crime. But at least one thing we can agree on – I think even the representative Eide can agree on – and that is that if you first sit in prison, you don't get to commit so much new crime before you get out. Society is protected from new acts all the time when people are in prison. Then prison seems better than a few hours of community punishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1280	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1298	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who are required to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1305	First, I just have to thank you for the work of the committee. That's probably the last thing I'm the case rapporteur for in Stortinget, and I want to thank for a very good and good cooperation in the committee. I agree with the proposers that the issue they raise can affect many. Crime is a poverty trap for many women, and especially women who have not raised capital in housing. We perceive that there is a great deal of attention about this issue. The banks have become better at providing financial advice to women, and there is a lot of good information from experts to find out. As a cohabiter, of course, I myself am concerned about this issue. Even though many marry, many live in cohabitation, with or without children. It is up to the couples themselves to decide how they will live together, and I think the state should be particularly reluctant to intervene in the privacy of individuals in this area. Cohabitants who so wish are free to provide for their own regulation of their economy by concluding a cohabitation agreement. I believe that the state cannot be premise towards adult people who have chosen not to marry. As SV writes in its proposal, the couples can choose whether this law should apply to them. There are many ways you can choose to regulate this yourself through private law, which we believe is better. One of the challenges for many is that the cost of purchasing into a common home is too high for many consensual residents. Personally, I believe that measures that reduce the threshold for this can be assessed. For example, exemption from the document fee for cohabiters, like for spouses, can be a good starting point for lowering the threshold for cohabiters to buy into a common dwelling. This is something I think we need to look at over the next four years, and I believe that as legislators we need to do what we can to ensure that cohabiters have a good code and a good legal basis to which they can relate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1324	In this case, I and the Labour Party are as rare as agreeing both with the previous speaker, who represents the government parties, who reject this proposal, and with the proposalers from SV, who want to introduce an aberrant cohabitation law. This isn't easy. How people regulate their lives and their relationship, they have to decide for themselves. If you choose marriage, it involves both great obligations and legal advantages that people enter into with knowledge and will. The fact that people choose cohabitation is a lot of reasons, and it's not necessarily the case, as the previous speaker said, that they want some more legal regulation of cohabitation. We have to respect that. At the same time, we know that there are major misunderstandings and a lack of knowledge outside and relate to what kind of cohabitation agreements should and can contain, and how formal and effective these agreements are in which we want to regulate our way of living together. So we know that when consensual residents break through, statistically, there are women who get the worst out of it. It has great consequences for the individual's life and also affects the young. It is not the case that the Workers' Party wishes to introduce an aberrant cohabitation law. I see that when you get there, you have to raise the question – are we going to regulate our coexistence through a law? – it'll be a bit like sitting and free and maybe getting no. What if one party doesn't want to do that? There has to be a rush situation. But we think that the problem is important, and we see no reason not to re-examine the question, that you look at all the sides of this. But it's not that the Workers' Party will investigate for the purpose of introducing, we'll investigate for more knowledge. That is why I am addressing the proposal that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV agree on an investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1341	The representative Anette Trettebergstien has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1346	We in the Center Party believe that it is of course up to each couple to choose their approach in terms of life-style. Someone chooses marriage, others choose cohabitation, and both are allowed. Here, the state should be careful to intervene too deeply in private life choices. Then that's not exactly what this is all about, because all the statistics suggest that a break-up of life is going to go wrong economically, and to a large extent, women are going to get worse. This becomes a question of equality, and also a question of children's living conditions. For – let me say – two years ago in the committee we had initiated a major seminar from us in the Central Party on this problem, where we were served a lot of good arguments as to why it should be a law on what we are discussing today. One of them is that, after a non-contractual breakup, single mothers are one of the groups that really fall below the poverty line. That is why I very much appreciate the fact that SV raises the problem by promoting a proposal. But we're probably on the same line as the Workers' Party and we think it's premature just to establish it – something like this, of course, has to be investigated, and we're going to support that. Since the problem is so difficult, we had hoped that an investigation was something the government parties could also attend. Fortunately, I register that the case rapporteur says this is a problem which should be worked on in the future. And when I mention the case rapporteur, this was her last case, I just want to point out that the case rapporteur may have been one of the most thorough, detailed and in-house case rapporteurs we've had in the committee. I just really wanted to say that. I have always noticed that – so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1365	Cohabitants today have very poor rights if something should happen, and very many who are cohabitants, don't even know that they have such weak rights. If you live together as a partner for many years, you get a mixed economy. Lack of relationship, yes, then soon the wallet may break as well. In particular, through statistics, and not least through the experience of the Judicial Aid Organisation JURK, we see that it affects women. Often, property and values are in the man's name – the economy is mixed. The woman has contributed to the household, but because she as a cohabitant does not have any rights, she stands on the bar after a break. This is an equality problem. If you have not entered into a cohabitation agreement that guarantees both parties, you have nothing, and there are very few who enter into that kind of contract, unfortunately. It is said that people’s lives should be regulated as much as possible – that people choose to live together and not be married must be respected. I agree with the heart, but in this case it really becomes a strawman, because what SV suggests is an aberrant cohabitation law. What does that mean? Well, that means that, for example, after three years as registered cohabitants, or when one has a common child and is a cohabitant, one should receive a letter in the post saying that it is approaching a situation where the law of cohabitation, which will ensure a fair minimum in the event of a breach, becomes applicable. If you don't want to, you can say no. You still have full freedom not to have any more regulation of your life – you can choose for yourself. I think, in contrast to the representative of the Tritebergstuen of the Workers' Party, that the consequence of getting that letter in the post may be very positive, because it makes many people realize that they may have very poor rights today, and therefore rather a cohabitation contract, which regulates this differently from what the law had done as a minimum. This was last investigated 20 years ago and I guess so. At the time you didn't do anything, you said that you also had to encourage people to enter into cohabitation contracts and inform people about the weak rights they have without. Unfortunately, the result is that there are still few disappearing people who do this, even though the proportion of cohabitants have shot at the weather. The most natural explanation is that many still do not know how weak they have rights. Then SV thinks it's time to learn that this hasn't worked in the last seven years, and do something about it. That's why we're going to raise this case. It is a pity that no more people see that today's situation is not working. But I think this is just going to push itself more and more forward, as more and more people live together and are not married. I'm glad that the other two red-green parties think it's wise to investigate this – and that's a good start. With that, I take up the SV's proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1382	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1387	I am pleased that the majority support the view that when a couple choose to move together without getting married, it is a choice that legislators must and should respect. This concerns the privacy of people, and it calls for clear restraint on the part of the legislator. There are also very good reasons for that. As far as possible, the judicial system should provide options and different options for couples to adjust to their economic life. Cohabitation should constitute a real alternative to marriage. Cohabitation is for many a deliberate choice, and the person living in a cohabitation should not be forced into a more obliging economic community than he himself wishes. The minority of the Committee proposes that any cohabitation law should apply to cohabiters after a certain number of years and that it should be waived. If the parties do not agree, that means that the law applies. I see practical but, above all, fundamental concerns about that proposal. So everyone can choose, at any time, to regulate their life in the form of an agreement or marriage. When you don't, the state has to respect it. It can't be that if you don't want to, you have to. Both marriage and cohabitation are based on individual choices. Regulating the consequences of actual actions, in this case living together, I think is a governmentization of form of life that will be completely crazy. I also believe that if a financial obligation is to be imposed on another person, it must be based on one person's own active choice. Such obligations should not be imposed by passivity or because the only option would be to terminate cohabitation before the law applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1394	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1400	I think the debate on such an important topic is well served that we put those strawmen aside, but it did not do the Council of State in its intervention. This is an aberrant cohabitation law. When the Council of State says that one should be forced to regulate the state, she talks about a different proposal than what we are discussing today. Cohabitants can freely choose to say no to the law proposed by SV as a minimum. They can continue to choose not to have any regulation, or they can contract their own contract instead. So it's been 20 years since the last time this case was investigated. It was then concluded that they did not create such a law, but rather encouraged people to enter into contracts. Since then, the proportion of people living in consensual relationships has been at risk, while the proportion of people entering into a contract, as we know, is still very, very low. We know the result. Many, especially women, remain on the bar after fracture. Does the Council not recognise that today's situation is not working well enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1407	The answer to that is no. And there's no strawmen, it's just a basic principleal attitude. It's not so often that I'm surprised by the Stortinget's proposals, but I was surprised at this – to think that you shouldn't leave it to people's discretion to assess what kind of life they're going to have, to think that because we seem to have to conclude a contract, the state has to sort it out. There's no one, as far as I know, and I know a lot of cohabitants, who don't know that you can regulate society, who don't know that you can contract. That's what all of us know that's moving together. There are many different reasons why we can't do this, but we can't do legal work as an information work – that because we need to become aware of this and get more knowledge of it, we need to implement a law. You should simply send a letter of information. I fundamentally disagree with this. Everyone can regulate their life together if they want to. It can't be that if you don't want to, and one of the parties doesn't want to, they actually have to separate or get a life conflict for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1414	I'm surprised by the surprise, because here we can, for example. listen to the Judicial Aid Organisation JURK, who, during the time they have worked, has been associated with probably hundreds of women who have remained on the bar after an end of living, cohabitation, precisely because they were not aware of the weak rights they had as cohabitants. I think again that this debate is served by a slightly greater degree of openness, also from the government. The Council of State repeats the same errors regarding the coercion that is not present in this proposal. It's an aberrant cohabitation law. These are many of the same arguments that were put forward in this case 20 years ago, and that has not helped. So my question is, if something's different now, what is it that makes this problem solve with the same recipe, information, that hasn't worked so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1423	I do not know the same problem understanding as the representative. I do not feel that this is a big problem. We have a lot of roommates. We have a lot of consensual residents moving together, and a lot of people moving away from each other, and pretty much it works very well. Then, in some cases, women come out crooked. So do they in marriage, and so do they where they have a regulated agreement. It's because of a lot of different relationships. When I argue against this, and the representative refers to an aberrant law, I don't know how fun it would be if you thought that we sat down and agreed that we should not go in for such a law. It's going to contribute to conflicts and completely unnecessary processes. I don't see that the state is going to fix the problems that the representative explains here, and that I don't actually see that there's any big social problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1430	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1449	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1456	I will first be allowed to thank the Committee for a good cooperation on the new law on child protection. I would also like to thank all the hearing bodies that have made good and constructive contributions, in particular the National Association for Children's Protection and the Change Factory. The primary task of child protection is to ensure that children and young people receive the necessary assistance, care and protection in a timely manner. The Committee supports the intention of the law to provide increased legal certainty for children and parents, a clearer decision-making basis on matters, a strengthened child perspective, increased requirements for competence and sound procedural procedures, better municipal governance and management, and that the child protection service must take early action. The law is based on the changes in 2018, when the Child Protection Act became a right law, and the child’s right to participation was made clear. At the end of 2020, 36 841 children and young children’s protection measures were received. About 13,000 had out-of-home placements, of which 959 were children and young people in a child protection institution. The total number of children in institutions was less than 3 pst. of all children with measures. Various reports have demonstrated a violation of children’s rights in institutions and revealed a lack of competence, and judges in the European Court of Human Rights, the EMD, have condemned Norway for a violation of the right to family life and the obligation to work for the reunification of children and parents. The Committee is pleased that the Ministry has laid down judgments in the EMD and the Norwegian Supreme Court as the basis for the legislative work. It permeates the law. The Committee has worked a lot on clarifications and additions to the law that strengthen children's rights, and I am pleased that we have achieved a unanimous consensus around it. Among other things, the Committee encourages clarifications in § 1–3, the best of the child, that ‘the child’s opinion is a central element in the assessment of the child’s best’. The Committee also wishes to see a new provision in paragraphs 1 to 4, the participation of the child, the right of children to speak ‘without the consent of their parents and without informing their parents of the conversation in advance’, and the fact that ‘children shall be informed of what information the child can use and who can obtain access to this information’. We have also said that in dealing with child protection, the child may have the opportunity to have a trustee with him and that he is bound by professional secrecy. It is particularly important to highlight the rights of the child when it is located in an institution. The majority of the government parties and the Progress Party agree to deal with the chapter on the protection of institutional children, but have amendments in the chapter that deal with it, including: in Section 10-2, where we have clarifications about the child’s right to be heard, the right to participate in all circumstances while staying at the institution, and that the child shall have the right to express his/her views freely and to participate in the design of the daily life of the institution. The same majority also have clarifications in the threshold for intervention and detention in Section 10-3, in line with the Civil Ombudsman’s opinions and recommendations. The Committee agrees on a number of proposals to be followed by the Ministry, including:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t examination of authorisation requirements for caretakers introduction of child protection for the new elected members of the municipality; examination of an alternative concept to the term ‘behaviour’, which is left in the law follow-up to the recommendations of the Judicial Security Committee and rapid action second assessment in case of urgency — what may be referred to as ‘second opinion’ foster parents shall not have a curtailment of disability benefits as a result of the foster home assignment; The majority also consider it appropriate to legislate requirements for master’s education or other relevant master’s education for institution managers in the protection of the institutional children’s rights and for municipal child protection employees with management functions, investigative tasks and decision-making powers. Better skills provide a greater prerequisite for fulfilling these tasks, and in 2017 a competence strategy was presented by the Ministry that granted funds for further training and further training. Many have enjoyed it, both those child-restraint workers who work evenly, and also the young and the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1496	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good and inclusive process. There have been short deadlines, but great goodwill and good cooperation within the Committee and with the Hearing Officers have shaped this matter. A good welfare society is based on good growth conditions and prevents care failure. It is therefore a key objective of the policy of distribution to prevent poor living conditions among children and young people. Everyone shall be taken care of and the community shall be responsible for providing security when the nearest fails. Child's best is always the most important. The same is the principle that there is the smallest possible intervention to be used. There is a need to ensure comprehensive assistance, and therefore multi-disciplinary low-threshold services are necessary. It is serious when policies help to increase the diversity of society. This is serious when professional and political concerns about the situation in and for the protection of children have been raised over the years. In the setting, we go through a lot of these. ‘Just wait’ has been almost a standard response from the Council of State Rupstad every time we have called for action. And we haven't been the only ones. Professionals, different authorities, child-restraint children, lawyers, EMD and the media have notified of unsustainable and serious circumstances. Nevertheless, there are areas of the new law in which it is easy to agree, such as demands for better child-care, clarification of children’s rights and better adaptation to today’s society, to mention something. Nevertheless, the inadequacy of the new law and the inadequacy of the policy are quite considerable: The Authority and the Authority for the Protection of the Child have not been specifically discussed and there are no proposals to clarify this. The prevention aspect and the role of child protection in society should have had a stronger focus. After 30 years, it would have been good if the law had been affected by the policy assessments and values to be used for the service. In a number of important areas, a Joint Committee has found it necessary to promote amendments and additional proposals, and in many areas, the Committee has chosen to have the policy assessed by the Expert Committee, which was initiated last autumn by the Workers' Party. As if it were not enough, the Committee has agreed to require the Ministry to comply effectively with the decision of the Enlarged Bureau on the mandate of the Committee of Experts. Because they haven't. The entire Committee also considers that it is necessary to call for the follow-up to the Storting Decision of May 2017 to contribute to the safety of children in foster homes, where home needs to be protected due to financial problems caused by illness and injury. I would also like to mention that several people have believed that the law should have been postponed. Hearing bodies and the Stortinge have had little time. The Workers' Party proposed a longer trial period, without a majority in favour. I believe we can see that the understanding of the whole and the context has come up somewhat gradually, and we have received more input in the course of the proceedings. The Committee also invited on-the-spot meetings. It was good for information on the matter and made us sure that we would not support the proposal for amendments to Chapter 10, but send it back for a broader assessment. The Workers' Party will have a child protection system operated under public and non-profit-making rules. Every child and every family is unique. Auxiliary services are not suitable for standardisation, tenders, competitions and profit motives. The Ideal Children’s Forum calls for a plan to implement the three-year-old decision on non-profit growth. And they demand that the commercial share actually be reduced, as the Storting has decided. In addition, they are concerned that the Child Protection Act signals that target groups to which they have offered may be reduced. The Church's Bymition fears that leadership is being put in place that restricts non-profit growth, and that the government does not see that ideal and commercial actors have to meet in different ways. Together with the Centre Party and SV, we are today promoting proposals for such a plan and wondering about the extreme insidiousness we are witnessing in this matter, despite the fact that the Council of State party was a co-sponsor – at that time – on the ideal side. Finally, I would like to point out that the Labour Party has proposed several improvement points for child protection: strengthening the role of the ideals in and strengthening knowledge of living conditions stress and poverty, ensuring more transparency in the counties, changing the organisation of the expert system – to mention some points. It is now proposed, for example: a change in the funding of the expert organisation and that is a partial improvement. The kids live here and now – every day, every week and every year. We as a community should be better at caring for these children and their parents. For too many years we have failed, and the improvements have taken too long. I'm sorry. I will deal with the Labour Party's proposals and the proposals we have with the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1531	The representative Kari Henriksen then drew up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1536	I also want to start by thanking for the constructive will shown by the majority of the committee in dealing with this matter, because, as we all know here, it has been very demanding, and we have got enormous input – of course during the discussion of the matter itself, but I must be allowed to stress that it is actually an engagement that I have made very clear through my nearly four years as a representative. This is a debate that has been going on for a long time, not only when we now have the law of debate. I would like to pay particular attention to the comments of the majority and the unanimous committee decision on the Legal Affairs Committee, which was also the representative of the Workers' Party. One of the most important intentions in the work on the new law has been that there should be legal certainty for all parties. Therefore, it has been extra demanding when more people have wanted a postponement of all or part of the law, precisely with reference to legal certainty. For the Progress Party, it has always been important to fight for the rights and legal certainty of children and, of course, of their parents in relation to child protection. As far back as John Alvheim's strong commitment, one has worked and worked hard precisely to ensure that legal certainty is part of our most important carriers. We believe that the law ensures legal certainty much better than the law of the day, and we believe that most people will be better protected by the new law than by the old one. At the same time, we recognise that no law is completely flawless. We also recognise that there are arguments that part of the law has a potential to improve. Our friends at the Change Factory in particular, and of course the National Association for Children's Protection, have pointed out a number of issues, including: This is Chapter 10, which we also understand to have been demanding. Some believe that we should take better time to deal with the law now, but we know that at the end of the session it would actually not have been possible if the law were to be passed now. A postponement would mean that other improvements in the bill had to be postponed, and I don't think that's any good idea. The Party has now proposed that the recommendations of the Legal Affairs Committee in the field of child protection be followed up without undue delay. In plain text, this means that as soon as the recommendations of the sample are ready, there is no need to wait, for example. that the law should have been effective for a certain period of time, await evaluations and so on, in order to make improvements. In this way, we get to pass the whole law now, while strongly stressing that the recommendations that the sample makes should not be allowed to wait. I am pleased that the government parties are fully involved in our comments that explain this decision. At the same time, I am also pleased that the rest of the committee supports it, so that it seems to be unanimous today. However, I think it is important to stress the strong commitment to the matter. I believe that the child protection field may be among the issues I have been asked most about. It's everything from organisations, employees, families, grandmothers and not least the children themselves. This may not be the last debate you have in this Chamber on improvements in Norwegian child protection, but I think that we are moving a very important and correct step in an improved direction today. I guess that's what I'm going to say today. I will draw myself a new post, where I will explain a little bit about the main proposals of the Progress Party. I'll take up the suggestions we're on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1559	Then the representative Silje Hemdal has drawn up the proposals of the Progress Party and the proposal of the Progress Party together with the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1564	This matter, this solid and very important law, is probably the most difficult matter I have worked on during this great period of time – difficult because constant reports, media disclosures and not least very serious cases and judgments in the European Court of Human Rights have made it possible that both I and others have continually tried to thank for improving the law. Sometimes we've got it, but most of the time we've been referred to waiting for this bill to come in full. It has been difficult because there is no area I have had more contact with interested people, who have told me desperately or with great commitment what they think is wrong with today's child protection, and how it can be improved. Child-restraint children, former child-restraint children, biological parents and foster parents, child-rescue workers and institutions, municipal politicians, a number of lawyers and, of course, all organisations in the field, will all do the best for Norwegian child-rescue, as we politicians at the Stortinget want. Everyone wants to hear, but they often don't agree. To find good, balanced solutions in this picture – which ensures the best possible child protection, where the best of the child is always preserved without jeopardising other human rights, while at the same time making it easier for those who have this demanding job, to do a good job and build trust in society for this extremely important service – well, it's not done in a hand turn. Then we come to the last one that has been difficult, namely to deal with such a large and comprehensive law with so many changes and with so many inputs to these changes in too short a time. The law could have been presented to us earlier, so that the processing time could have been extended. In any case, the Legal Affairs Committee should for the longest time have been well-informed about its work, so that the outcome could be used for its proceedings. But it's not like that. Now, Stortinget has given marshallers the opportunity to work quickly, and when they can present their findings and recommendations, we in the Center Party are ready to revise the law. In any case, there are so many good improvements proposed in the new law, and not least the Committee has done a great deal of work to improve it further. I would like to thank the Committee, and in particular the rapporteur, for the vast amount of room there has been to listen together to good arguments and to promote joint proposals, so that what we finally adopt will be a solid improvement in the legislative proposal. We in the Center Party are among others. Welcomes the strengthening of the participation of children and the wording of the Committee's proposal on the best interests of the child, the desire of most parties to seek out an authorisation system for the protection of children, the further introduction of elected members of the local councils in this important service, the request of the government to investigate and propose a second-stage assessment of emergency decisions, the absence of shortening of unaccompanied foster parents, and the continued ability of non-profit actors to provide services in the same areas as they are now. In order to ensure an even better law, it would, of course, have been useful in the opinion of the Centre if a number of opposition proposals had also been listened to by a majority – such as the need to make child reporting safer, as the ideal actors, as the good supplement they are, would have to perform more services at the expense of large commercial providers, such as the children in foster homes, i.e. in fact, most children in the care of children are guaranteed foster homes with specific rights to meet the needs of foster children, and not least the proposal that we should soon have greater transparency in dealing with cases in the county, so that the media can more closely monitor matters and with the guaranteed contribution of the supervisory board and the vigilance they are in all other areas, not least in the courts in other matters, and also to ensure greater confidence in the protection of children in the population. Loose claims by one or the other team may lose their relevance with the media. Here, of course, strict privacy will be very important, and that the media act extremely cautiously, at least as well as they do in mentioning legal cases in other cases. I hope we get there in time. Given how well Norwegian media have worked to reveal the challenges we face in child protection, so that today we are actually going to adopt a much better law than what we had, I think we can rightly be more positive to the media in this field. So until what we in the Central Party are most negative about, namely the proposal for Chapter 10, on forced use in the institutions. I mentioned the press and I remember all the articles from, among others. Stavanger Eveningsheet that shows how negative it is with the force use as it is now. Together with the opposition, we would rather keep the regulation in this area until a proper investigation and review of children's rights and the use of coercion in child protection institutions has been carried out. We will not vote in favour of the proposal for Chapter 10. There has been a loose proposal from SV today, which we also find hard to support before it has been investigated. But we're going to substantiately support the proposal of the government to C.I., which is similar to ours and parts of the opposition's proposal to investigate authorisation requirements for those who work with care. With that, I address our proposal and what we have promoted together with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1587	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has drawn up the proposals she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1592	Child protection is the most important service we have. Child protection provides care and protection for children who do not receive the growth to which they are entitled. SV fights for children’s protection. The rights of children shall be strengthened. There shall be enough employees on the job to listen to the children, and the best of children shall be the only governing consideration, not profit motive for commercial owners. So to the number. 1: rights of the child. Child protection means strengthening the rights of children in child protection under the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Constitution § 104. Child protection will never be a good and useful child protection unless the children themselves are listened to, both in relation to each child in need of help, that the child is given the right help, and in relation to how we as adults decide on child protection, that child protection works properly overall. That is why I am pleased that we have achieved a number of changes in the treatment of this law that strengthens children’s rights – throughput which is rooted in children’s own experiences in child protection. Firstly, we have changed the law so that child protection must inform children and allow them to contribute to what child protection does with the information that the children have given. That's important, because children experience a loss of trust when they don't know what adults are doing with what they're saying. This change is therefore about making it safe to tell about the evil. Secondly, we have amended the bill so that children should have the right to comment on child protection without the consent of their parents or prior information. It's all about being safe for children to tell us about the difficult things. Thirdly, children shall bring with them a trustee in whom they trust, in all meetings of child protection, not only after child protection has taken over. It's very important. Here SV has promoted a loose proposal in the room today, because the wording of the law that is now being promoted by the entire committee, including us, can act as a weakening when it only says that children should be allowed to bring with them a trust person. It's a weakening I don't think is intentional from any of the parties in the hall. That is why I encourage everyone to use the safety valve that it solves the proposal, and vote for it solving the proposal, which says that children in child protection meetings have the right to have a trustee with them. I think that's safe and sound for the Storting to do. Although we applaud these strengthenings of children's rights in the law, SV believes that there is still much that remains, which the bourgeois parties will not support. The most important thing about the use of power and coercion against children. The Civil Service Officer has serious concerns about the law that the government has proposed here. They say it's unfortunate that they haven't done a complete review and investigation of the use of coercion and power against children in child protection institutions before a lawmaker has access to forced use. I quote from the Civil Protection Officer's statement, because it's a pretty strong diet. ‘Our concerns relate both to the findings we have made in several child protection institutions that identify the practice of existing legislation and to the fact that, as we read it, the proposal will in reality be able to continue and in some cases lead to further ambiguity about the facilities for forced use.’ It's serious. We can end up in a situation with greater access to more invasive coercion against vulnerable children in child protection institutions than against adults in the field of health, after the Force Control Committee's investigation in that field has been followed up. Therefore, SV is voting against the proposal for the entire Chapter 10 of the Act on the provision of institutional services and proposes that the existing legislation be continued until the government has carried out a thorough investigation and review of the use of coercive measures against children and the rights of children in institutions and comes back with a new proposal. So number. 2: Creating child protection must be about listening to children, and then we are totally dependent on having enough safe employees at work, who actually have time to listen to the children. It's not like that today when 80 pst. The employees of a survey say they have too many cases to do a good enough job. Therefore, SV proposes a stepping-up plan for earmarked funds for several posts in municipal child protection. So finally, no. 3: Creating child protection means placing on the market care. The best interests of children shall be the sole guiding consideration to take, not profit. Every penny we spend on child protection is going to protect and care for children. Not one of the Community’s crowns shall be given to the bank account of commercial owners in tax havens. Therefore: Strengthening children’s rights and better time to listen to children’s best – not profit motive – is child protection. With that, I'll take up SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1618	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1624	From the outside of the family and culture committee, which I am following correctly, I thank the Committee for the important and good work it has done on this legislative decision. Thanks also to the rapporteur for a good and neat review of the setting. There is a big day in Stortinget today and an extra good day for Left – and perhaps even better for too many children covered by child protection. I have a couple of minus parentheses in the margin of the setting, but I'm going to get back to that. The Child Protection Act and the Committee's clarifications adopt policies for which the Left has fought for a long time. Action against cohabitation, enhanced child protection skills, the removal of shortening of the unborn child’s parents and the clarification of the rights of children, foster parents and parents are all key and good measures. Not all children grow up with the security, care and love they need. We must therefore have good arrangements to protect and help the families and children who need it. Let there be no doubt about it: the children come first. A former leader of the party that is running the Ministry of Children and Family today launched the slogan: Children, children, children! I think he can say he is satisfied with the way today's party leader has followed it up. I am pleased that our majority specifies that care takeover is to be the last action to be taken by child protection. It is a particularly interventional measure that must be used wisely. Furthermore, we are particularly pleased that, in the form of a note, attention is now being paid to the need for siblings to grow up together in order to choose their place of residence. Similarly, we see that the clarification that is now being made in this law of municipal responsibility for managing and ensuring the quality of child protection is in place, and we look forward to the further work on this. Without competence – no change and no development. For the Left, it is safe that government's commitment to the development of child protection competences is passed on by this law. We also see that skills requirements for certain tasks are a good and natural development for enhanced child protection. That is why we are pleased that the majority of us belong to, the government is asking for authorisation for those who are going to work with caretakers. The left is for equality, justice and equal rights. Unfortunately, we have had to fight for a long time and relatively alone in order for both parents, and not least the children themselves, to have a right to get together. Obstacles to community are not for the benefit of children. It's devastating, and it's a big problem. How can you talk about equality with credibility if it only applies in one's direction? It shouldn't be like that. Children and young people get the right to see both parents taken straight out of their hands. It creates deep wounds that are difficult to play. We therefore welcome the fact that the majority of the Committee in its comments on the Communication sets out the way in which child protection is to deal with cohabitation. It has to be corrected, and we have no time to lose in that way. Already in 2014, Left's Terje Breivik asked questions about co-conspiracy in the Stortinget. On 10 December last year, I myself asked the Minister of Children and Family whether the Council of State would take initiative against Nav, so that the regulation on ‘fixing and changing birth defects’ does not act as an economic incentive to prevent the child’s right to family life. The left, together with a majority on the Stortinget, has asked the government to carry out tougher responses that can counteract barriers to association. We also assume that when the Children’s Act is to be revised, the Children’s Law Committee will strengthen the child’s rights and the parents’ right to get together, even if they do not live together. We have been working to stop barriers to association since 2014 – for seven years, in other words. This is the victory of the Left. It's called self-responsiveness, because it comes from the heart, and it does it especially in this case, because it's something bigger than us, the children, the children, the children. I note with satisfaction that the Committee refers to a pilot project for the protection of children that my municipality of origin, Päder, has carried out with great success in recent years, together with Alta. Here comes the minus: Fäder has received consistently good evaluations from the follow-up research to the project, and it is with a certain wonder that I notice that no more has been done so that this can be continued. In fact, some of us have succeeded in bringing the Council of State into a one-year period of decline – full respect for it – but there are few good reasons not to extend the system of child protection under municipal law, which is both better and cheaper, on a permanent basis. This is the child protection of tomorrow, and it is my promise to my municipality of residence and to the children of my municipality that I will pursue this matter inside or outside the Stortinget. I appeal to the Labour Party to support its own rapporteur in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1647	Child protection is the most important matter we have in our committee. Today, we are finally going to adopt a new child protection law, and that is great. That's something we in the Christian People's Party really enjoy. The current Child Protection Act is almost 30 years old, and the new Child Protection Act should be a more accessible law, a law that is better adapted to today’s society. It shall contribute to improving child protection work, to strengthening the legal security of children and parents and to contributing to an increased focus on prevention and early intervention. It is very important for children who, for various reasons, need assistance, follow-up and child protection. Child protection deals with difficult issues, and the consequences of boring mistakes can be very serious. It is a great responsibility at many levels to ensure that the quality and legal security of the individual child and its family are good. The purpose of the Child Protection Act is to ensure that children and young people living under conditions that could harm their health and development receive appropriate and timely assistance and care. The quality of child protection must be strengthened, inter alia: through enhanced competence requirements. The emergence of existing skills measures is good, and interim evaluations indicate that these actions contribute to improving practice. Raising competences is the key to ensuring good quality in assessments and decisions that are legally sound. Over the last few years, we've spent 350 million. kr for this training effort. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we are now introducing requirements for the Master's degree in the field of child protection or other relevant training at an equivalent level for child protection staff to perform core tasks. Strengthening competences will contribute to the correctness of decisions taken and actions taken. It is also important on the prevention side. Putting children's needs in the center is to think early. We will build on the resources that exist around the child, and facilitate the involvement of the child's family and network. Not least, the new law should provide a better professional tool for child protection and other child protection actors and enable them to provide better services to children and families. In the context of a new reform of child protection, municipalities will have an even greater responsibility for child protection. It imposes high standards on local politicians, who must ensure that child protection services are properly and properly followed up. That is why I am pleased that the Christian People's Party in the law has been implemented so that at the beginning of each period all local politicians will have a good introduction to their child protection service. If we are to succeed in the new reform of child protection, the elected representatives must be equipped to make the important decisions that provide a good service. Yes, it is a prerequisite for them to be able to follow-up the annual state reports that they gain insight into the tasks of the Child Protection Service and how they also relate to the rest of the growing-up work in the municipality. Ideal actors in child protection are also well protected by the new Child Protection Act. They do a very important job and are a good addition to the public child protection service. I would like to underline the important role of society of the ideal actors as part of civil society, as a non-public actor with a free and independent position. They have the strength that they are often close to those most in need of support and assistance, and they are in contact with different groups in society with the ability to reach those who do not necessarily trust the authorities or for other reasons are not reached by the provision of public services. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to continue to work to ensure that the ideals are given an important place and have good framework conditions, so that they can be guaranteed a predictable operation, and that the escalation of the ideal share is carried out as soon as possible. Outdoors, mental disorders, traumatic experiences — care failure has a major impact on society, yes, but primarily on the individual child who experiences it. A good childhood, on the other hand, gives great positive ring-effects. All children deserve it – a good childhood with safe care people who are happy in them and who take care of them. That is why the Christian People's Party is pleased that we are now putting in place a new child protection law, which will better facilitate children to experience just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1668	This is a big and important day, and it is high time for a new child protection law. Today’s law will make child protection a challenge, and it will help to improve the assistance of vulnerable children and families. It's been 30 years since the current law was passed. Much has changed, both in child protection and in society. It has therefore been important for the government to provide an up-to-date law to ensure that children and families receive proper help in a timely manner. I would like to thank the Committee for its good work and for its support for the intentions of the law and, in particular, for the legislative proposal. The new Children’s Protection Act is a more accessible law, which is better adapted to today’s society. The law should strengthen legal certainty, both through clearer procedural requirements, increased emphasis on prevention and early action, and with clearer regulation of children and the fundamental rights of parents. The best interests of the child shall continue to be the leading principle of child protection, and this is highlighted in the law. Strengthening the child’s right of participation. Children should be more able to explain themselves freely to both the child protection service and the subject matter. Particular attention has been paid to the achievement of the reunification objective in drawing up the rules of association. Considerable emphasis has also been placed on human rights assessments. Several of the legislative proposals respond to the criticism of Norwegian child protection by the EMD and provide a clearer framework for child protection practices. Clearer decision-making, justification and evidence requirements are set out and decisions shall be taken on how family ties have been considered. If the action is necessary in order to provide for the best interests of the child, consideration for the child will take precedence over consideration for the parents. Raising competences is the key to ensuring good judgment and is important in order to enhance the legal certainty of parents and children. I am therefore very pleased that we are getting a new Child Protection Act that demands a master's degree for the head of the Child Protection Service and for employees in the Child Protection Service who are to carry out core tasks. Furthermore, it is important that the law makes better provision for local authority management to assume its responsibilities in the field of child protection. This is fundamental to good child protection. I have noticed that the committee will make some changes to the bill. Special attention has been paid to the right of participation. I have proposed a general provision on the child's right to participation, which will apply at all stages of the case, and which is now made more complementary by Stortinget. The regulation of rights and the use of coercion in institutions is a difficult area, and I have announced in the proposition a broad review of the theme. I am pleased that the Committee has joined the proposed provisions. The fact that such important provisions are laid down by law, rather than by regulation, which is important today in order to strengthen the legal certainty of young people. I have noticed that the Committee will emphasise the child’s right to participate in these provisions as well. We want to strengthen the ideal and state institutions, so that the public itself can mainly care for the young with the most comprehensive and complex needs. At the same time, we will increase the proportion of ideal places, especially at the expense of single purchases from commercials. Therefore, a better and more flexible public offer will provide the basis for ideal growth, and I am pleased that the Committee is joining in. Finally, I would like to stress that child protection is a sector that requires continuous development. The new Child Protection Act addresses a wide range of documented challenges, and I am very pleased that the Stortinge will now adopt a new child protection law. Then we have also put down a sample to look at new challenges in the field of child protection, so that, in the future, we will ensure that both child protection is developed and that it is constantly improved, for the benefit of young people and for vulnerable families.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1689	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1694	It pointed to the role of non-profit organisations in child protection, and on 28 May 2018, three years ago, the Stortinget took a decision that the ideals should be prioritised at the expense of the commercial ones when it came to agreements with the State. Since then, it has really gone wrong. At least the ideals are deeply concerned. They are also deeply concerned about the signals contained in this law, because the government and the Council of State use the same name for non-profit actors and private commercial operators. The Church's Bymission, the Ideal Children's Protection Forum and the Work of non-profit and volunteering say the government's overruled. Why this override at the top?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1701	It's a reality I don't know about, because we're talking very clearly in the message section further on developments in the field of institutional child protection. As the representative is familiar with, it is an important matter for me to work on reaching a 40 percent target, which several people have argued that my own party has also joined the Stortinget, which I personally fought into the government platform, which is the basis. We are committed to strengthening the ideal position because we believe that they provide important diversity and quality that is best for the young. That is why, as I have said several times in Stortinget, we have sent clear leadership to Bufdir that ideals should be prioritised and that they should be raised in line with the 40 percent target. As the representative is certainly well aware, we conclude framework agreements. New framework agreements are to be concluded next year. That means that we have an even greater opportunity to follow up the description, as I have said, by both stepping up in public and ensuring that we can reach the 40 percent goal. But it requires appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1710	Now it's been cut in revision in the institution's child protection, but it's a different matter. Our proposal is: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that ideal actors can continue to provide services for the target groups ‘care for children under the age of 13’ and ‘rest treatment’. The ideals have pointed to a different reality from that expressed by the Council of State, so either the posts of the Council of State must be interpreted in such a way that he does not have enough leverage in the government to assure the ideal actors that it will go the right way, or it is the other in the government that overrides the Council of State in the case of non-profit and commercial actors. But my question is two-fold: one is: why can't the Council signal that proposal no. 8 can be a good proposal and one should vote for it? The second is, why has the Council of State not come up with a timetable to meet the ideal actors in order to find good solutions to the adoption of the decision on ideal actors in child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1719	Thank you for your clarification. Now I am aware of what is proposal No. Eight. Let me start by saying that for me, it's important that we strengthen the ideal position. I think they're adding a lot of positive to child protection, and we're working on that. When we presented both the proposition and the message part that described progress further, as we saw it for us, it was also important to strengthen the manpower and the public offer to provide people with even better offers and, not least, as I said, to reduce the number of single purchases, to have greater preparedness and opportunities for the public to solve the problems, especially for those with complex needs and greater challenges, and also to step up in terms of the ideals. We wrote that it means that those with more complex needs will be taken more by the public. Our goal was that it could also be offered from ideals, so what Stortinget pointed out in proposal No. 8 is something that we have interpreted all the way, and as I see the majority has also described is important to them. There is nothing in what is being adopted today that closes so that you can also look at other types of offers from ideals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1730	Once again, I just have to say that the reality of the ideal actors and what is being said in this proposition is different from what the Council of State is talking about. I'm also a little stunned if the Council of State talks on behalf of the Christian People's Party or on behalf of the government. I'm dealing with the government. I'm dealing with what's in the proposition, and it's unclear how the ideal actors are going to get their rightful share of child protection, and how the Storting with the Christian People's Party as a co-sponsor, or how we got a majority, secured. Now, therefore, there is a great deal of concern among the ideals of that timetable – how this is to be realised. There are three years left now, and there are three years left until we have 2025 in the budget. How are we to ensure that this is done in the last few years?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1737	Let me just underline again what we write in the message, and which the majority also specifies. I am pleased, if there has been an uncertainty, that the majority of the committee writes that ideals can provide care places for children under 13 years of age, as well as drug places. It's in line with what's been our intention. We have also considered that public opinion should equip itself more to meet the most challenging and complex young people. I think we really agree on that. There has not been any obstacle to ideals being able to offer that type of space, but we have pointed to others where they have bigger tasks today, such as the most natural thing to step up on. In the case of the 40 % target, it is said that new framework agreements will be concluded next year. We have a big ambition to grow further and could achieve the goal. But it depends that we don't move children unnecessarily, which I think we also agree on, and that it is done wisely that ensures that the kids get a good offer. This will be a matter which I will follow further, for it also requires, as I have said, budgetary appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1744	There is a very great need for foster homes in Norway, and it is an explicit political objective that society should make the best possible provision for children in foster homes, and develop new and lifelong relationships. I find it challenging that the Storting has already adopted a case a long time ago that says something about how to follow up foster homes where one, for example. They're getting tired of it. Although the Storting has adopted this, there are still gaps in the legislation today that prevent you from recruiting new good foster homes just because you can risk economics becoming a driving issue here. When does the Council of State see that the ‘snapshot’ decision, which we are confirming today, will be implemented soon after four years? It's weeks, it's months?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1758	Thanks for the important questions. I share the commitment in this matter and would like to see the matter advanced earlier. I have a great deal of understanding of the impatience of Mr Hemdal's representative. When we had a sample that looked under the terms of foster homes, they pointed to some solutions that required more investigation. As I said in the foster home strategy that I recently presented, we want to look further at the economic conditions. What the Storting will adopt in this matter, I share the intention behind it. It will be the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that will have to follow it up because there has to be an exception in the rules on social security. I am not going to give a timeline for the ministry and that council, but I share the impatience and believe it is an important proposal. I have already engaged in the matter and hope that we will soon be able to return to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1767	In all these years, we have received a lot of good suggestions on how to improve child protection. Together with a majority of the committee, including the Christian People's Party, we have written in the Central Party that we want to clarify further the question of dividing child protection into a coercive protection and an auxiliary child protection. We also point to the lowered committee of experts. Does the Council of State think it is right that the committee of experts should take that job and investigate that particular question, and will he make sure they do it? Actually, I'm really interested in what the council actually thinks about that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1772	It's a proposal that's come up at regular intervals, and I've seen it several times. I'm going to be careful to express myself to the bastant about it, but often it's so that it can solve some problems, and then it can quickly create some new challenges. That is why, like the representative, Mr Sem-Jacobsen, I think that when it comes to the mandate of the committee to look at the organisation and distribution of responsibilities, this is something they can address in their discussion. The mandate has now been given and, as I said, it has something to do with organisation and responsibilities. It's a proposal that's been raised several times, so I'm not going to stand here and say they're going to deliver on it, but it might be that they're coming up with an assessment of it. But I also think that it's not necessarily just simple solutions. It may be that it can solve something, but then it creates new challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1777	In its opinion to the Committee, the Civil Protection Officer: ‘Our concerns relate both to the findings we have made in several child protection institutions that identify the practice of existing legislation and to the fact that, as we read it, the proposal will in reality be able to continue and in some cases lead to further ambiguity about the facilities for forced use.’ When the Council of State reads the opinion of the Civilian Ombudsman, which is based on the prevention unit against torture in child protection, which gives rise to clear concerns that the use of force and power proposed by the government to legislate, with potential unintended material changes to the law, can allow for more coercive use – does that impress on the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1787	We have read both the hearing opinions and other recordings that have been made. I am very sure that it is right to legislate on the issue of coercion. Today it is in regulation, and as I said in my post, I believe that it also strengthens legal certainty that it is actually in the law. In parallel with that, we have clearly communicated that we also want a review of the legislation. And if there's going to be changes in this, either one way or another, it's important that it's done well. That's what we're doing. But I have to say that when the representative of the Supreme Court, together with the Workers' Party and the Centre, proposes to take out the whole of Chapter 10, I am very surprised, because that means that you do not want rules on the recognition of institutions and requirements for quality, staffing and competence, which I believe are very important in order to ensure legal certainty for very vulnerable children.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1796	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1803	It's a challenge to comment on the 650-page child protection law in three minutes, but I'll try. The new Child Protection Act shall ensure better assistance for vulnerable children and families and the aim is to provide increased legal certainty for families receiving assistance from the protection of children and, in particular, to provide more children with a safe upbringing. Child protection is likely to be the most outsourced public service. It must not be overshadowed that there is a lot of good out there in child protection, but of course we still have challenges to solve. In most areas, we have good child protection in Norway. We have dedicated employees, and we have good help. But it's once true that it's the negative issues that reach the media's front page, and that can leave a bad impression of services. Competence is always important, not least in a sector as important as the one we are discussing today. I am therefore pleased that we are now legislating for the competence of employees in the Child Protection Service. The fact that we ask the government to ensure that the elected representatives in the municipalities get a good introduction to their local child protection is also about competence and is important. Public, commercial and ideal providers are repeaters in the debate – even today. The dividing lines are clear and are also evident in this legal process. The bourgeois parties believe that diversity and the fact that we need all the good forces is important. We are therefore pleased that we are changing the draft law, so that we ensure that ideal and private actors continue to play an important role in both recruiting and following up foster families. With regard to institutional child protection, the Right is pleased that the Ministry writes that private and non-profit actors will continue to be important in the development of the institutional field. I am pleased that an overall committee actually acknowledges that strengthening and converting the state offer and following up the decision on 40 pst. ideals will have significant budgetary implications, as the Council of State has pointed out. It will be sustainable additional expenditure and start-up and conversion costs. The right has talked a lot about barriers to association in the last few months, and not least we got an important breakthrough in our party program at the national meeting. In our remarks here in the Children's Protection Act, we also address this issue. For the Right, it has been important that the new law places the needs of children at the centre and contributes to increased prevention and early intervention. We are committed to the right of children to participate, and we will make demands on the work of child protection and on the proper care of children's legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1818	It is an important matter we are discussing here today, and my good colleague Silje Hemdal, who is very engaged in this field, has explained and will explain in a good way to the Progress Party part of the position, but I would like to address some other aspects of child protection. Child protection must be for the best of the child, it must be the child's friends, and it must also be there for the families around the country. When you have as much power as child protection has – in many ways it can be said that child protection is one of the most powerful institutions in the country because you have the power to intervene in families and to separate parents and children – it must be managed in a very good way. Care transfers by bringing children out of families must be an absolute last resort, which is tried when all other measures have been tried and have not been effective. When you get stories from all over the country – which I'm sure we who sit here in the hall, and all those who work with child protection, are regularly contacted about – where people are dissatisfied, you have to take it seriously. Norway has several cases in the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, EMD, and it is important when this happens that it also leads to a change in practice. I heard the Council of State say that several of the changes in law now take this on board, but I think the impression has been that once such a judge has been given earlier, the changes in child protection practices have not always come fast enough, or that has not led to the necessary changes. Changes in practice have not necessarily been seen since then. Experience with child protection is often subjective. It's very good that happens in child protection every single day, that we're all going to be proud of. It should not be forgotten when the negative things come out, but many with disturbing stories probably don't always feel that they're being taken seriously. I believe that child protection often has more power than even the police and other agencies that you think have a lot of power in society, because it is often child protection that investigates matters and makes recommendations, and that also stands for decisions more than that, for example. is in other parts of society, where there is a greater division of power. In the new programme of the Progress Party, we have therefore proposed a two-fold division of child protection, where the most dramatic and interventional measures are taken at a national level, while at local level child protection is primarily to guide families and help with preventive work. I think it's important that we have this with us. We are often contacted and get many stories. It can often be seen as much noise, but the stories that come, we have to take seriously, and we have to make sure that everyone feels that the process has been tidy, even though one does not necessarily agree with the decisions that are taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1831	The Committee supports the legislative proposal to clarify that municipalities are responsible for general prevention measures aimed at children and young people and that there is a need for a comprehensive child protection and growth policy in municipalities. The Committee considers that there is a good prevention work, it can identify the needs of the population and ensure that there is a relevant offer from different bodies and that they communicate with each other. The child protection reform will increase the professional and financial responsibility of municipalities towards child protection. It is therefore important for municipalities to be able to see the overall picture of child protection that they are also responsible for the provision of prevention. Here I must stress that it is up to the municipalities themselves to assess how the prevention offer is to be organised, and what role child protection institutions should play in this work. Although municipalities are given greater responsibility from 2022, when the Child Protection Reform enters into force, it is an overall committee which stresses that the State should continue to have a fundamental responsibility for the overall protection of children. However, in the context of this Communication, the Committee has proposed measures to ensure that municipalities are well equipped to ensure the integrity of child protection, and has proposed that the Stortinget ask the government to introduce annual reporting requirements on child protection to the local government, and that the Stortinget asks the government to ensure that the local authorities receive good training and introduction of their local child protection at the beginning of each period. We believe that this is important in order to provide the municipal and local authorities with information that is sufficient to manage this task as elected representatives, as well as to train them on child protection and have an understanding of this field. One of the most important measures we can also take from this legislative assembly is to ensure that the municipalities out there have the skills they need to ensure child protection in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1840	I thought to comment a little more generally, from the point of view of the Progress Party in this matter. The word ‘municipal politicians’ was now mentioned. I have mentioned it many times before in matters relating to child protection, because I myself have met municipal politicians who do not know that they are responsible for child protection in their municipality – very, very alarming. However, there has been some action in the law here that I am very pleased with, but I think it is quite right to think as the Progress Party has suggested, that a two-part division of child protection should be carried out where municipalities are essentially responsible for prevention – that is where the most important job is perhaps done – and that the state is responsible where action may be necessary. The Progress Party has also put forward a proposal that the government should promptly bring forward a case on the use of access to child protection. Here I would like to say that the government is overtime, because the Progress Party, as I interpret it, has actually had an impact on this earlier. I am very surprised that the government parties cannot support this proposal. We also ask the government to ensure that the parties to a child protection case are entitled to change the case handler. I see that there may be some problems associated with it, if you like. would replace 100 case handlers, but the principle of legal certainty is nevertheless important and correct. You have the opportunity to change in other cases, so this should also be an opportunity within child protection, where you know that poor personal chemistry and the intersection of a family and a case handler would like to be grounded for further conflict, and something that should be averted. This could also be done here today, and it might improve the cooperation climate. We also believe that the government should ensure that providers of child protection services are treated equally. It is a principle of equality that is also important for the Progress Party, although we know that many parties in this Chamber today have an aversion and an agenda against private suppliers. Last but not least, we want a case to be presented to replace the county council with an administrative court, but unfortunately it does not appear that the Progress Party will receive support for it either.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1856	Let me just start by saying that there are no problems with the recruitment of foster families in the municipality of Fäder, unlike elsewhere in the country. I continue with the subject: In 2014, the Left became aware of a significant weakness in our legislation related to foster homes. We were contacted by a desperate foster mother. She had lived with her foster child for over ten years, and it was her wish that the child should stay. Foster mother had a regular job and a good income, and she also received foster home allowance. The family had good finances and good prospects. Then the foster mother got hit and ended up as 100 pst. completed. Because she had an unborn child, Nav thought she had 20 pst. residual working ability and reduced the wear and tear down to 80 pst. Before the accident, she earned NOK 600,000 and received the KS rate in addition. Now she went down to 66 pst. of the income of 80 pst. coverage, so revenue was almost halved, from 600 000 to 316 000 kroner before tax. It became a everyday day where it was difficult for the unborn foster mother to make the economy go up. She would not throw in her towel, but feared that the way out had to be to cancel the foster home assignment, after ten years. This is probably the case the press often illustrates with the Norwegian nissenlua well pulled down its eyes and ears. The fact that those who are unlucky and in this way suffer a significant decrease in their income receive a further reduction in Nav to be a foster parent is profoundly unfair and must stop – the faster, the better. The left has been reassured repeatedly that foster parents will not be put in such a situation where they feel compelled to cancel the foster home job because of shortening social security or refuse to be recruited for the same reason. We promoted the proposal and were adopted at Stortinget in 2017 that this should be sorted out as soon as possible. Nevertheless, the acknowledgement of the decision is suspended on the grounds that further investigations are needed. When there is an investigation, a new one is referred to – now at the end of the answer from the Council of State to the third written question of the Left on the occasion of the case. I can promise that the Left will follow up this closely until foster parents, like unfinished biological parents, get 100 pst. disability benefit and not an unreasonable curtailment. I beg the Council of State and not least his office notice the decision here today. Now there's no need to hesitate or investigate any more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1871	I would like to add some comments to some of the comments. At first I think it is important to say from this pulpit that foster parents make a formidable effort, and that in the law that is now on the table, it is proposed that they be granted extended rights. One of these was the representative Grimstad up in the pulpit and was impatient on behalf of, and I can assure you that that is probably the whole committee as well. With regard to the Civil Ombudsman's comment on the protection of children and the use of coercion, I would like to point out that what the Civil Ombudsman wanted has now been included in the bill. So it's actually inside the bill as it is now, and it's an improvement. I also want to say a little about the EMD judgments. I would like to point out that the Swedish Children's Rights Association has addressed a concern related to the right to family life – that is where we were convicted – and they are anxious that the best of the child will suffer on the basis of their parents' rights. Then I can assure those who are concerned that it is not. It is the child's best that goes ahead of parents' rights and desires. With regard to the SV proposal on the rightful attachment of a trustee, we will not vote in favour of it. We believe that as the case is, and is now incorporated into the law, there will be a regulatory confirmation of the tasks of trustees, and we think we will be quite well cared for. I would also like to point out that when the expert committee is done with its work, it may well be that the law will change. I notice that someone wants the part that concerns the acute part of child protection and care coverage to belong in, for example, the specialist health service, and we cannot ignore the fact that there may still be changes. But what I think is most important here today is that it is asserted so strongly that there are children's rights that must lie at the heart, regardless of the organisation of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1884	Child protection is one of society's most important tasks on behalf of all of us. It is also a prerequisite that the welfare of children and their own assessments, needs and desires are properly addressed. The Child Protection Act is essential. Because of the size of the law and the matter, Stortinget and the Committee have worked fast and hard in this matter. I will give tribute to the representatives Sem-Jacobsen and Urbø, who, on behalf of the Centre Party, together with competent advisers, have made suggestions and worked well on the matter to get our position and improve the law. Sem-Jacobsen has put forward the centre party's position on the matter well, and I want to take the opportunity to add some moments. Unfortunately, the centre party, together with others, is promoting a number of proposals that are not being implemented today. The Central Party believes, inter alia, that: that the Child Protection Act must be in line with the fundamental rights of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child to Information and to express itself freely in all acts and decisions of child protection, and how this should be emphasised against other considerations. This has been implemented in the Training Act of the Education Committee, and we also have the potential to improve the law here. Law paragraphs 1 to 4, the child’s right to participation points in the right direction. Children must be able to confide in adults and at the same time own their history and vulnerability itself. Children must be in the driver's seat to change their lives. Once upon a time, adults were driving the kids, but it's not like that anymore. They are independent individuals with rights and legitimate opinions about themselves and their situation in life. I assume that the government and the Minister for Children and Family Affairs agree with this. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party in government does not show the impact on child protection that we had expected after they had been in the United Kingdom for nearly six years and adjusted the government's policy several times, also together with the Center Party. Is the Christian People's Party ruling on behalf of the Right in these matters? If the Christian People's Party has the rule and sits in the driver's seat itself, there should be more to it. In any case, it goes too little with the follow-up to previous request decisions that the Christian People's Party has also agreed to vote in favour of in the Stortinget, before they became part of the government. One example is the use of the ideal actors, up to 40 pst. by 2025 at the expense of the major commercial operators. After the line change here today, I'm not quite sure we've been able to figure out what's really the state of things. When we grant large amounts of money to go to children, we must be sure that the money comes out and does its good. Children's best interests are in our common interest here in Stortinget. And to those who are the children's great-grandfathers here: participation and participation are no obvious thing for too many children and families who experience injustice. We always have to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1901	Child protection is perhaps the most important part of the welfare state, but it is also the part of the welfare state that has had the most problems. It is now 30 years since we became acquainted with the so-called folder children – hundreds of cases that lasted for months without being investigated. The law clearly states that matters should be handled immediately. There are matters that have remained lying down, that were not taken seriously enough, that have had tragic outcomes, but that, once again, may have led to an obscurity, where the motto may have been that it is better to take one child too much out of a family than one too little. In this case complex, neither too much nor too little is good enough. That is the correct help at the correct time the key is pressed. It is a crisis The European Court of Human Rights has pointed out, a crisis of confidence in large parts of the population. But as we in the Labour Party have pointed out, there is also a manning crisis, a crisis of competence and a resource crisis, and these things we have the greatest opportunity to do something about if we really want to. It is good that the expert committee should go through the entire quality and that there may be more changes after that, but the law provides some clear leads on flexibility, on communication, on early efforts, even where there is no voluntary activity. Many in child protection have said that there is a dilemma that there is either voluntary assistance, or there is a need for care. The law allows for a much wider range of measures between them. It is not all that the Committee has signed up, but everyone agrees that care takeover should be an absolute last resort, and the last option within this last resort shall be emergency decision-making. We've seen a lot of emergency decisions for periods where this is in itself a trauma to the child. I have to say that I have seen some of these matters closely. In my 24 years in this house, I have not seen any things that have frightened me so far into the soul as to see some randomities and missing systems and processes around these decisions. From our side, we propose second opinion, second-hand assessment, transparency, transparency, experts, things that can improve legal certainty. This is crucial, also for the confidence needed to intervene in the past, without ending up in the situation where taking care is the solution. It's supposed to be for the children. The challenge over the last few years is that care takeover has not always proved to be the best for children.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1914	The representative Henriksen and the representative Giske were within several of the proposals the Workers' Party has raised in this matter that would have made the law better. We in this committee have discussed a lot of child protection in this room over the last four years, and in the context of much of the impatience that we have shown in the opposition in terms of child protection improvements, reference has been made to the revision of this law. It's high time -- it's been 30 years since last -- and the law has become better in a lot of areas. Now it is that a law can be as good as it will, it can have the best intentions, but it must be able to be observed out there in reality. As several others have pointed out, the reality out there in child protection is objectionable. It's a resource crisis. It is not without reason that the child-restraint workers themselves through, for example: The #hei campaign in the last four years has alarmed that they have too many things and too few colleagues, and that they are concerned that they are not getting good enough assessments in each case. It should make an impression on us in this room. That's also why we in the Labour Party in every state budget have spent hundreds of millions of dollars to give these child-restraint workers more colleagues. We need more child-restraint positions, and the escalation of ear-marked positions that we held under eight years in the red-green government is broken. We are against the fact that the earmarked grant for child protection posts is now included in the municipal framework. We fear that it does not cause any escalation in the number of colleagues to these valuable child-restraint workers. In addition, several tasks are now transferred from national child protection to municipal. We're worried that the resources out in the municipalities, with a municipal economy that's already scrapped to the bone, will make them unable to follow this in the best possible way. We have requested promises of increased appropriations and an overview of how this can be followed up in the municipalities. Economics and responsibility must be linked. We have not seen that the government has followed up the decision of the Storting – which was also part of the Christian People's Party before they came into government – that we must phase out the commercial forces of child protection. All children are unique, all children are different, and children in a vulnerable situation are at least suitable for standardisation, tenders, commercialisation and privatisation. We have to put an end to this. People's tax money is to be taken care of, not for the profit of tax havens.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1927	I would like to take up the thread after parts of the post to the previous representative, about this that have to do with resources. At the end of the year, the child protection reform shall be implemented. Very well-known is not yet a proper overview or a complete assessment of how expensive it will be. Now we're adopting a new law, and there's probably some extra costs associated with what we're adopting today. I heard the representative Grimstad speak warmly about the results in the municipality of Fäder, which has been a kind of pilot municipality for the reform. I have also been visiting there and talking to those who work there. They have had many good suggestions, including: they have had their own child protection institution. They thought that was very important for a municipality to have. It was one of the things they did in Fäder that the government has said not to implement in the new child protection reform – because it gets too expensive. I've been around in many other municipal child protection, and they're very anxious, because they don't quite know how to be sure that they get the funding for everything they're going to do before the reform comes into force. So I hope that the Minister – since he is here – can say something about the prospects for funding the reform when it is to be implemented in 2022. Can he reassure municipal politicians, and not least municipal workers in the field of child protection, who are already concerned that there is too little resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1936	I would like to begin by agreeing with the great concern expressed by both the representatives of the Central Party and the Labour Party so far on how to deal with the child protection reform when it comes into force. I think there is a great reason to fear whether that reform will be fully funded, and I record that, among other things. Studies by SOS children’s cities among child-restraint leaders around the municipalities point out that many people are worried and are not ready to accept the tasks that are coming. I can at least say that we from SV's side are going to follow that development closely, even beyond the fall. The representative, Mr Johnsen, the committee chairman, mentioned the changes proposed by the government parties and the Progress Party in the case of Chapter 10 of the Act, i.e. the part which includes: is about the use of power and coercion against children in institutions. That's quite a change. I can now notify you that SV will vote subsidiaryly for those changes. But it's a fact that it doesn't solve the problem. It doesn't solve what the Civil Protection Officer points to in his statement. No, because what the Civil Protection Officer says quite rightly is that it is unfortunate to adopt this law on such extensive use of force and power in child protection institutions before the overall review and investigation of the use of coercion in child protection and in institution and of children's rights. The major problem pointed to by the Civil Protection Officer and its preventive unit against torture itself should continue to make an impression. In connection with the Council of State's last reply in the reply to the undersigned's reply, I can assure you that the red-green parties promote the law and regulation that are in place today. In other words, the quality code and the rating code will remain valid and still apply, making it absolutely safe and all right to make this decision. Now you have today's legislation temporarily until the government comes back with a new proposal for Chapter 10 of the law. Finally, I would like to say, once again to solve the proposal from SV, that at least there has not been my impression during the committee reading that it was wanted to have this weakening of what should have been a right to have a trustee in all meetings with child protection. On the contrary, it was a desire to extend it to all meetings of child protection, and then it is absolutely right to use the safety valve that solves suggestions. We have a good basis for that through the examination of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1949	When we discuss such technicalities that we're dealing with today, which are very important, we often forget who are the heroes of history. The heroes of this story are the children who every day get up, put on backpacks, go to school, are scared, have big worries and don't know what the next hour is going to be like. These are the children and the families we're going to create a framework for. That's good intentions in the law. Everyone has said that today, and it is also concrete, good proposals. But what's the challenge for us in the Workers' Party is that there's not such a good connection in the framework around it. I think that's a bit of a part of the policy that comes from this government: it's good intentions, but they're not being followed up with resources and economics. Several have pointed to the local economy, the personnel crisis. You don't get legal certainty out of child protection if you don't have enough people to spend the time they need, for example. to provide good documentation. I believe the prevention and what is to be done is too badly described in the law and in the message. I mentioned in my article an example of empowerment of child protection. It's a big discussion. There's a big discussion out there. How should a child whom the Child Protection Service believes should be assisted by A-BUP, act when A-BUP as a specialist may say no and child protection becomes attached to that child and that family? It is a major challenge to have coherence in services, and it is not addressed in this legislative proposal. The same applies to coercion. There's a lot of work going on with coerciveness in psychiatry or mental health protection, but there's very little discussion here. So the Health Authority and the Civil Ombudsman come and say there's such a big failure in this that they ask us to postpone this chapter. And that's what we're proposing. It is also the case that we have actually decided that the government should follow up these measures. One small thing to the left: the left is in government, and it is quite strange that a representative from the Left is asking the Labour Party to save the rapporteur of the Labour Party and an action in the Chamber. I can comfort the representative from the Left that we have good contact with Fäder, and we agree that it should be possible to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1966	I just want to promote the proposals on which the Committee agrees. It might be unnecessary, but it's easy to clarify that they're being promoted. I very much agree that trust is incredibly important in terms of child protection. At least I think there are two things the committee has now been concerned about that will provide both transparency and more trust. This is what is called second opinion, or is now being asked to assess how it can be done on care takeover issues, and especially where there are acute care takeovers. I think it also concerns this requirement that we have to seek authorisation. It's about competence, but it's also about trust in a profession that's getting even more strengthened. I notice that, in connection with the law, we, of course, also come into this with resources in child protection. Over the period that has passed, at least for the last three years, more people have been employed in the protection of children in municipalities, and I also believe that municipalities and municipal politicians are able to give priority to good school, health and not least child protection. It is the preventive work that the municipalities must do, which is reinforced by this law. It should prevent us from going so far that we have to take care of ourselves, but make sure that we come in with help to the individual family. And there we have this left with confidence. I wish it were the case that the individual family who felt that they were having problems actually turned to child protection and asked for help, so that you could actually do what is needed to make the child grow up safely. The local economy has increased, the free income has increased, and I trust that when politicians are asked a question about the state of child protection, they will in fact also ask the right and good questions and priorities. It's the duty of a politician. When I myself was in the local government, we spent a very long time discussing the state of both the schools, the hospitals and the home services, but child protection was just an annex, where we talked about just how much it cost, while the content and what happened got very far away from the politicians. So to this by postponing legal proceedings: I notice that you want to postpone the treatment of Chapter 10, but I am concerned that we have adopted the chapter. There have been major improvements in the Committee in Section 10-2, as I mentioned earlier, and I think it is also important to wait for the expert committee, which allows further improvements to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1979	The representative Silje Hemdal has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1984	I would like to comment on the solution of the SV proposal in the case. I believe – as the representative of the Supreme Court also points out from the pulpit – that there is no doubt about what the intention here really is, but I have to say that I am a little skeptical that, in a loose proposal here today, we should promote exactly this wording. I'm a little concerned that you can then create a situation in which children can actually be pressured to bring with them people who you really don't have specific confidence in, that you can be pressured into it because it's considered a right. But the intention here is that we all fully agree, and at least I can promise that the Progress Party will join in and follow up this point, especially if we are not satisfied with the government that comes with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e1990	First, I would like to thank the Committee for a good and important debate. Child protection is a demanding and complex field, and it is important that the Storting has good and thorough debates on it. As I said in my first post, I am concerned that we are constantly working to develop child protection further. What we are doing today strengthens legal certainty for vulnerable children and families and is very important, but I also assume that we are continuing to work with new improvements – with new developments all the way – because they deserve to be vulnerable. I drew because there were both several challenges and some things that I have a desire to correct. The representative Henriksen said in the reply with me that we cut the child protection in the revised budget; that's wrong. I rudely interrupted in my post, but the thing that is of strength in the revised, is 37 million. kr, such as is going to strengthen the staffing of institutions because we know that there are many who have the extra strain through the pandemic. This is why it is an important measure for the government. The representative probably refers to the agreement with the Progress Party; there was a decrease of 3 million. NOK, but originally it was SEK 40 million. kr in the bet, and therefore there is a strengthening of 37 million. kr, which I believe is important. I share a lot of the content of the articles of the representative. It is so important that we work to reduce the number of emergencies; therefore, I am pleased that there has been a significant decrease. We do what we can to prepare in advance so that these matters are handled in the best possible way, because it can be very demanding, not least for the children. The representative Trettebergstuen and several others are involved in this with crew. Let me remind you that from 2013 to 2019 there have been 1 400 new annual works – an increase of almost 30 pst. I am sure that when you see the figures for 2020, you will see a further increase. When it comes to ringing, we've put everything in as free money for the municipalities. There are employees who are there today, and I am absolutely sure they will continue a further escalation. As the representative Ørmen Johnsen had in mind, there has been a significant strengthening of the municipal economy in recent years. There are fewer municipalities on the ROBEK list than in a very long time, and the available funds are large – and they are good results. We've also been through the pandemic to strengthen the municipalities. They show through their priorities that they look after more, and I'm very happy about that. So the representative Sem-Jacobsen challenged me on the child protection reform. The representative of the Upper Farm was involved in the study from SOS children's cities, and I just want to stress that it was taken up before the municipal bill was presented, where we are clear that we want to fully finance it. I guess it's over 2 billion. kr, which is a transfer to the municipalities, and the predictability of Sem-Jacobsen's demand is made clear there, so the municipalities know much better what this means. We make a gradual change, so that the municipalities that have the biggest cases can have some more time to change – so it should be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2005	The representative, Freddy André, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute. If the representative Kari Henriksen is a little bit light on his foot, we'll also reach her before we go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2012	I just wanted to say that the Storting has a very good basis for correcting the wording of the third paragraph of Section 1-4 of the law, based on the thorough case and the discussions we have had in the committee. I also want to add that I do not see the point that it should be a pressure to bring a trust person with me when you have a right to it, versus if you should be able to give it an opportunity. It is clear, at least, that only fixing a regulatory occasion is not good enough in line with the intentions we have had in the committee, I believe. Then I should just briefly mention that SV is promoting a proposal in the matter of asking the government to provide a possible differentiation in terms of the new skills requirements. I can't spend a long time doing that, but I think it might be a good idea to see that, for example. are different types of institutions which may require different types of competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2021	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2026	I'll be quick. I just want to express a regret that there is no greater consensus on such an important issue as this – for Norway, for the children and for the Stortinget. I should've just said that. So you could say that it's not cut, but you could say that the allocation is taken down. That's another way of saying it. As for the ideals, I just want to mention and show that there is a difference between the proposals, even though the government parties say they will listen to them. That's a difference. It says in the proposal of the Workers' Party and the other parties that we should ensure that the ideal “get” is its share, while the government parties say “can” – that is the symbolic image that they give to the ideal actors. Manning: All actors in all budget lines have pointed to the need for more staffing. The children have now lived out there for eight years with this government, and it has not listened to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2037	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox Let's start with case number. 10 after the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2052	The size goes to voting and starts with the case no. 8 to 19 from Tuesday 8 June, Agenda No Ninety-six.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2064	A total of 35 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-8, by Eigil Knutsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party proposal No 9, by Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 10, by Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Party proposal No 11, from Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 12–16, by Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party proposal No 17, from Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party the proposals No 18 and 19, from Hans Andreas Limi on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 30, by Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Centre Party and the Greens proposal No 31, from Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 20-29, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Greens and Reds the proposals No 32-34, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposal No 35, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 35, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to start work on the establishment of a green State Investment Bank.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2121	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 32 and 34, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Norway is prepared in public financial institutions to grant commercial credit immediately in the event of an acute economic crisis.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set a target of reducing the share of money provided by private banks.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2143	There is a vote on proposal No. 33, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to uncover the effects of a monetary system using digital central bank money, combined with an increase in public credit intermediation through existing or new financial institutions.’;» The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2160	There is a vote on proposal No. 30, from the Centre Party and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to take the initiative of the relevant contracting parties and trade organisations to investigate the establishment of a body of appeal for those who fall outside the mandate of the Financial Complaints Board, for example. which is able to deal with complaints from organisations, traders and enterprises, where appropriate. organisations and enterprises of a certain size.’» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2178	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20, 21 and 26–28, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the extent to which bank credit is socio-economically favourable and to assess how credit regulation can make credit allocation more efficient with a view to achieving in particular the objectives of the Paris Agreement and otherwise support the real economy.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking to prohibit the marketing of ‘green’ financial products which are not really environmentally friendly’. Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked to explain how the framework conditions for and regulation of the financial sector can be changed in order to promote migration and climate change, and to give greater emphasis to climate and climate risks in the credit process.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to make climate change a part of the purpose of the Bank of Norway.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate the impact of the crisis measures on banks and to identify how much of the bank’s profits in 2020 and 2021 can be attributed to the crisis measures’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2215	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 23–25 and 29, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government in dialogue with the business community is asking for broad reporting on climate risk, adapted to the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures [[TCFD]] Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asked to report on climate risk in the Norwegian economy in each state budget.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asked to entrust the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority with the task of regularly conducting climate risk stress tests in Norwegian financial institutions. Financial supervision needs to identify and analyse climate change impacts for financial risk in Norway.’» Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary changes in order to differentiate between dividends to shareholders and dividends for non-profit purposes in recommendations and rules on dividends.’ The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2249	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18 and 19, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with Norwegian banks with a view to making account number portability a reality or making proposals to make bank exchanges even easier for consumers.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with the financial industry and assess whether a separate complaint body should be set up for businesses, traders and organisations and return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2273	There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that any link to an EU supervisory structure against money laundering and terrorist financing is ensured by the Government and does not entail the transfer of sovereignty to EU or EEA bodies.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2288	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13 and 14, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The government is asked to initiate international cooperation in the taxation of foreign exchange transactions and financial transactions in securities.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a public sample to assess the future role of cash in society and how the needs of different customer groups for cash services can be met in the most effective way.’ The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2312	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12, 15 and 16, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the overall impact of the financial stability of bank financing through covered bonds and associated dependence on the development of the housing market, cross-ownership of the OMF between banks and the opening of securitisation under the securitisation regulation.’ [[OMF]] Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit a proposal on the introduction of cap rates in Norway in the context of the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: «The Government is asked to return to Stortinget as soon as possible and no later than the spring of 2022 with a proposal to prohibit return commissions.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2340	There is a vote on proposal No. 11th from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to work to ensure that specific Norwegian experiences and perspectives relating to key renewable industries such as hydropower and forest industry are taken into account in the development of the EU taxonomy for sustainable economic activity.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2357	There is a vote on proposal No. 31 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for investment in key Norwegian renewable industries such as hydropower and forest industry to be defined as sustainable under the EU taxonomy for sustainable economic activity.’ Red has announced support for the proposal. The Workers' Party has notified subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2376	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to introduce a notice obligation in the debt register and to provide a right of establishment for creditors.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2391	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to investigate the possible introduction of bank swap services, for example by model from the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, which are not based on account number portability but contribute to the simplification of bank swaps for bank clients.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2408	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-8, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to assess the risk of outsourcing of IT systems to operators abroad and how central ICT providers and data centres can best be supervised.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for critical financial IT infrastructure to be operated from Norway.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the outsourcing of critical operational functions by Oslo Børs, in particular as regards the risk of deterioration of preparedness and competence in Norway, and to present an assessment and any proposals for action, at the latest in the context of the Financial Market Communication 2022.’; Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a concrete proposal to extend the debt register in the context of the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals that further reduce banks’ access to risk outside the core business.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget by the spring of 2022 with a proposal to ban the marketing of consumer loans.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The government requests the return of the Financial Market Communication 2022 with proposals for tightening the regulatory framework for additional benefits conditional on credit absorption.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a sample to assess how to increase the market shares of banks and financial institutions resident in Norway, and to return to the United Kingdom with a notification by the spring of 2022 at the latest.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2457	There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to clarify the need for, and the possibility to include even more types of debt in the debt registers.» The Workers' Party has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2484	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2515	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 2, by Hans Andreas Limi on behalf of the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3–5, by Hans Andreas Limi on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party proposal No 6, by Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 7, from Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to adapt the practice of capital requirements for high risk exposures in line with the actual Norwegian legislation on the sale of dwellings, so that concluded purchase contracts, rather than the final statement, are taken as a cross-point for assessing whether the debt financing is high risk or not.’ The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2550	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the government to secure and strengthen the position of the equity certificate, the framework conditions and the attractiveness of the capital market.» The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2567	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Progress Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to identify and exploit the space for action within the capital requirements rules in order to ensure the competitiveness of Norwegian savings banks, including the relationship between standard method banks and IRB banks in the calculation of capital requirements.’; Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider reducing the risk weight of commercial property with less than 50 pst. Loan, from 100 pst. to 50 pst. for standard method banks.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2589	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Party of Advancement, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the use of the action space in the EU banking package to limit the capital requirement and reporting burden on savings banks in line with proportionality, and to ensure that the use of the action space is specifically defined in the legislation rather than left to the discretion of the supervisory authorities.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2605	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner, at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2022, with proposals for a revenue-neutral conversion of the financial tax which eliminates an increase in the employer's contribution.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2622	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the government to ensure the flexibility of savings banks to use joint solutions in cooperation with other savings banks within a sound framework.» The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2646	The right, the left, the Christian People's Party, the Greens and the Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2746	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2756	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2768	During the debate, Christian Tybring-Gjedde has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess whether the management of the export control legislation should be transferred from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Ministry of Defence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2793	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2824	During the debate, Mr Kaski presented two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size agrees that the Ministry of Defence in 2021 may initiate new investment projects and make changes to investment projects as referred to in Chapters 2 to 5 of the proposed project, with the exception of Project 7720 F to 35 upgrades, within the given cost framework. The Ministry of Defence is authorised to adjust the cost framework as price increases and as a result of changes in exchange rates.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to return to the Storting with a separate case on the F35 programme and related upgrade projects, which explain in detail the acquisition, current cost estimates and challenges of the F-35 programme as a whole.’» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2858	The Greens have announced subsidiary aid for I. The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2896	During the debate Emilie Enger Mehl put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Prop. 174 S is returned to the government.» [[2020-2021]] Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2920	The Central Party and the Left Party have announced subsidiary support for the suspension. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2941	During the debate Seher Aydar put forward a proposal on behalf of Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The report requests the Riksrevision to conduct a specific examination of the acquisition process and the basis for the selection of new fighter aircraft and to present the result to the Stortinget’. Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e2975	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 4, from Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government, in cooperation with the Foundation The Old War School, asks the government to draw up a long-term financing plan for the restoration work in Tollbugata 10. ‘... Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government in the context of the State Budget for 2022 to submit proposals for a first state contribution to the Foundation of the Old War School.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Swedish Government, in cooperation with the Foundation The Old War School, asks the Government to draw up an opportunity study on how the use and dissemination of the Old War School in Tollbugata 10 can best be made possible, and to identify what the State can contribute to maximising the potential for further work by the Foundation.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e3020	There is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to determine whether any future grants and/or operating resources of the Foundation The Old War School in connection with the mass of buildings in Tollbugata 10 in Oslo should be triggered via the Ministry of Culture.’ All parties have notified aid and subsidiary aid to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e3044	During the debate, Ms Marthinsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a holistic defence plan in order to achieve the objectives set out in its UN Women’s, Peace and Security Agenda, the Equality and Non-Discrimination Act and the Work Environment Act. The plan must include all operational domains, HR and education, their structures, processes and culture and contain targets and deadlines for implementation.’;» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e3077	During the debate Emilie Enger Melhl put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the situation of the NH90 to be clarified with the aim of finding a solution that will secure the sufficient capacity of the Coast Guard of helicopters with sufficient reach and that tackles the challenging climate in the Barents Sea. The assessment must be made from a 20-year perspective, where the cost of operation and maintenance of the NH90 is assessed against the purchase of new helicopters. The government asks the government to come back to the Stortingen with a case in the draft government budget for 2022.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e3110	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-7, from Seher Aydar on behalf of Red. There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that Norwegian cooperation with US intelligence services suspected of spying against Norway, including NSA, is suspended until US spying against Norway has been surveyed and the Storting is properly briefed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e3127	There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals to ensure, within the framework of the Constitution, that the Norwegian Defence Authority is not used outside the country’s borders except by self-defense or under UN leadership.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e3151	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1 and 3-6, from Red. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The majority calls on the Presidency, in consultation with all party groups, to set up an independent and wide-ranging selection to assess the impact of Norway’s participation in various international operations between 1991 and today and to review and assess the overall impact, including: political decision-making processes, transparency and democracy. Impact on international law and the position of the United Nations. The consequences for the Norwegian economy, veterans, the threat picture, national defence capabilities and security. Extent of civilian and military losses and people in flight.» Suggestion 3 reads: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that Norwegian police personnel involved in international operations are given equivalent rights to compensation for psychological sensitivities as defence personnel participating in international operations.’ Suggestion 4 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure a living conditions survey of veterans from international military operations carried out by an independent civil research or investigation body.’ Suggestion 5 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to calculate the cost of Norway’s participation in the war in Afghanistan from 2001 to today according to the same calculation method used for the calculation for the years 2001 to 2014 in the Godal report and to return to the Storting appropriately.’ [[NOT 2016: 8]] Suggestion 6 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to examine the number of Norwegian veterans who have been fully or partially decapitated as a result of participation in international military operations and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e3191	The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1 to 8 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e3213	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e3315	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3, by Peter Frølich on behalf of the Right. The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e4346	It is voted on in § 265. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e4360	It is voted on in the second sentence of Paragraph 274 of the New Act. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e4374	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first sentence of Section 274(c) of the Penal Code is replaced by the following: Where the court deems it necessary, it may invite the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Defender to submit the final statements within a specified time limit.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e4394	As a result of the proposal No. 2 was adopted and the first sentence of Paragraph 274(c) of the New Act lapses. It is added to the second and third sentence of Paragraph 274. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e4411	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 3 from the right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The third sentence of the third paragraph of Section 265 of the Criminal Procedure Act is replaced by the following: It shall not be used against the defendant that the extended response is not filed.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The second paragraph of Section 274(c) of the Penal Code is replaced by the following: Information referred to in the second sentence of the first subparagraph shall be given only as far as the defence mission so requires. It must not be used against the defendant that the final insert is not lodged.» The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e4441	The remainder of I and II and III are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e4451	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e4461	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e4602	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e4612	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e4626	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e4640	President! I think I may have voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e4645	Let's do the voting again. It seems that the Storting may have been wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e4735	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e4745	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e4757	During the debate, Mr Eide put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the fundamental rights of children in proceedings under the Convention on the Rights of the Child are set out in the Regulation of the Administrative Act, including that sharing should be decided only where it is best for the child, that children have the right to be informed that the body can share information, and have the right to express their views freely on the division.’; The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5112	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5123	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5160	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5179	During the debate, Per-Willy Amundsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the law on amendments to the Criminal Code I [[enforced punishment in the event of several serious integrity violations]] In Law 20 May 2005 No 28 on punishment shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 43, first paragraph, third sentence, is replaced by the following: In determining common penalties under the third paragraph of Section 79(a) of the Criminal Code, the court may lay down a time-frame which may not exceed 26 years. The current third to the fifth sentence becomes the fourth to the new sixth sentence. Paragraph 79 is replaced by the following: § 79 The imposition of penalties beyond the criminal framework If one or more of the situations referred to in points (a) to (c) exist, the penalties provided for shall be increased as follows: [[several offences, repetition, organised crime]] (a) where, in one or more acts, a criminal offence has committed more than one offence and a common penalty is to be imposed, the penalties provided for in the strictest penalty shall be increased up to twice but never higher than the sum of the penalties. The penalty shall not be increased by more than 6 years and not more than 21 years, except for an increase after the third paragraph of this point. The sentence shall be increased to a maximum of 26 years in prison if two or more of the offences are punishable by imprisonment for up to 15 years or more. For persons under 18 at the time of action, the penalty framework is not increased beyond 15 years. The increase in the penalties provided for in this point only applies to legal provisions which have provided for the imposition of a higher penalty framework. (b) Where a previously convicted person has again committed a criminal offence of the same nature as he has previously been convicted in this State or abroad, the penalties shall be increased until twice as long as the offender decides otherwise. The penalty rate is not increased by more than 6 years and not beyond 21 years. The increase in the penalties provided for under this point only applies when the conviction had reached the age of 18 at the time of the previous criminal offence and has committed the new act after the penalty for the previous offence has been fully or partially enforced. If the new criminal offence is punishable for more than 1 year, the penalty shall not be increased if the new offence is committed later than 6 years after the execution of the previous sentence has ended, unless otherwise decided. If the new criminal offence is punishable for 1 year or less, it may not have been more than 2 years after the execution has been completed. The increase in the penalties provided for in this point only applies to legal provisions which have provided for the imposition of a higher penalty framework. (c) Where a criminal offence has been committed as part of the activities of an organised criminal group, the penalties shall be increased until twice. The penalty rate is not increased by more than 6 years and not beyond 21 years, and for persons under 18 at the time of action, not more than 15 years. An organised criminal group means a cooperation between three or more persons whose main purpose is to commit an act punishable by imprisonment for at least 3 years or who assume that a non-negligible part of the activity is to commit such acts. The increase in the penalties provided for in this point shall apply to legal provisions conferring legal effect on the criminal framework, where this is not the case. II 1st@item: inlistbox The law applies from the time the King rules. The various changes may be brought into force at different times. 2nd@item: inlistbox The king may specify transitional rules.» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5326	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Anette Trettebergstuen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose the introduction of an abstinent cohabitation law, which regulates the economic settlement between cohabitants, in order to ensure a fair distribution of end-of-life cohabitation.’; The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5352	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to impose a renegade cohabitation law.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5376	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5388	The announcement then goes back to the agenda, and we start on case no. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5404	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5411	Today, we are to adopt the Law on the Information Society Fund. In this regard, I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation and say that I am pleased that everyone is behind the work of sharing the fund between state and church. It's very gratifying that this is going to eventually release funds like, among other things. are to be used to care for and restore our churches. It is very important to preserve the Christian cultural heritage, and our churches are strong, beautiful symbols of the beautiful cultural heritage we have in our country. The information service's fund was established in 1821 and manages values historically linked to the Norwegian Church. The values consist of real estate and securities and it is estimated that the total value of the fund's sales is around 10 billion. kr, even if it is a theoretical size. So this bill follows up on the big message about the Information Society's fund and the Storting's treatment of it on the spring side last year. The majority then joined the Ministry's proposal. The new Law on the Fund of the Information Society shall enable the Government to comply with the Decision of the Grand Duchy. The Norwegian Church shall acquire properties of particular church value and become the owner of them. The State receives the ownership of the rest of the fund after the property has been transferred to the Norwegian Church. The size has made it a condition for transfer to the state that culturally important church buildings are restored. The measure shall correspond approximately to the value of the fund taken over by the State, and it is important to note that this effort shall be in addition to the financial responsibility of the municipalities for church buildings. I am pleased that the hearing bodies are generally satisfied with the new law, but we have noticed some concerns and uncertainties relating to matters that have not been proposed in the bill. It is understandable, but the purpose of the bill is to lay the legal basis for sharing the ownership rights of the fund between the Norwegian Church and the State. So there is no proposal on how to manage the properties that remain on the country's hands after the division. Practical work on sharing is likely to take place for many years to come, but the process is under way. In 2020, a project was established with the Norwegian Church and the State at the Information Society Fund as equivalent parties. The project systematically passes through the assets of the Fund and makes a proposal for distribution to be delivered to the Ministry of Children and Family on 1 July. We in the Christian People's Party are pleased that this law will be put in place, and that this – in addition to redundancies over the state budget over the last few years – will mean an uplift for the refurbishment of our cultural-historical, beautiful church buildings. I will get something more back to this in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5432	Thank you to the President-in-Office. As the rapporteur said, this follows up the message we had to process in the previous session, it was well done. But the proposal for a new law concerns a decision on how to distribute these values between the state and the Norwegian Church. The Labour Party will only add some comments to what we think should be an overall principle. The information service fund, OVF, is still among Norway's largest landowners, with about 1 300 buildings, a forest and utility area of about 920 decarns, an agricultural area of 25 000 decarns and about 6 200 land fasts contracts, of which about 3 500 relate to residential plots, 200 holiday homes and 1 400 to public land. The working party is concerned with ensuring a broader societal interest than that resulting from the performance needs of the realisation of these values. We also want clarifications of rights to contribute to the redemption of party contracts. The Community needs more areas for general use, outdoor activities, hunting and fishing. This should be ensured through the process of sharing funds. The Workers' Party also wants a user of the possibility to redeem fixed-term contracts, and refers to our proposal for the winding-up of the law on land fasteners and the prohibition of the conclusion of new fixed-term contracts for residential and recreational property. It has now been discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs, as far as I know – if that is not still there. I am addressing the proposals that the Workers' Party is part of in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5445	The representative of Kari Henriksen has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5450	I am very proud that our parties and the Right in the government have taken hold of the Information Society's fund. As mentioned by the interlocutor, this law comes after the Committee has dealt with a communication on the Information Society's fund, and now we finally have a new law that makes ownership more appropriate and forward-looking. The values of the fund shall be allocated between the State and the Norwegian Church, where the Church shall retain the properties which are of particular importance to them. In the case of the values of the fund and the profits, this shall be managed by the King in accordance with the Basic Law, Section 116, for the benefit of the performance and disclosure. The Committee also stresses that the State should continue to have an important responsibility for the rehabilitating of culturally important church buildings. It's important. Therefore, we also need to be clear that we are opposed to many of the proposals from the Workers' Party and SV to change the Landfill Act. We believe these proposals are not appropriate here, and that the Storting has already dealt with them, familiar to me, and rejected the proposals. I believe that the parties in this case also pursue a policy that would result in the collection of values from the fund by proposing that the land that is attached should be redeemed at a low price. It will directly sabotage the purpose, which is to secure profits to be able to undertake important tasks for church buildings, as I mentioned. Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party will go directly against the purpose of Section 2 of the Act to ensure that the values of the Fund are managed in accordance with Section 116 of the Basic Law. We believe that proposal No. 5, from the Center Party, is in a slightly more constructive line for strengthening the work of refurbishment of old churches where municipal capital can be placed as equity, and this can be considered. It is important to understand that municipalities would not necessarily be equal to the fund if this were to be a solution, but it meets the purpose of the administration that municipalities should continue to have an important responsibility for the church buildings. But we're not going to support this in this round because it's unfortunate to advance these criteria on the basis of prioritization of churches. I believe that this government has really delivered in terms of the Information Service's fund. It is the first real change that has been made in the fund since the foundation was established in 1821.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5463	The law we are examining now is – as the rapporteur did well, and as others have pointed out – a follow-up to the constructive work that we had in the committee with the department – and after and the Stortinget – in order to find a good solution and to clarify the ownership of the Information Society's fund, with the important premise that the values left in the new fund should be used for church maintenance. Then we also had agreements on how we in Stortinget will further deal with the management of the new fund, taking into account everything from security policy to parties and municipalities' views in these matters. I look forward to that treatment. It'll be exciting. It's not given how it ends, so I enjoy it. This is a rather curative law, but of course I have some objections. It is a pity that some of the uncertainties have arisen in some of the actors that this has greatly affected, among other things. KA, that the Church will not be well cared for in the process that is currently underway. They have wanted an agreement to ensure that Church and State are equivalent partners in that process, and I would probably wish we had received support for the proposal to set up such an agreement. And of course, I would have liked to have a majority of our proposals to ensure that our church building maintenance would be better – that it would have been ensured to a greater extent. But I record with hope that it may be that at least our last proposal, which the representative Haukland was in, can be received relatively positively by the opposition. With that, I'll take up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5474	Then the representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has drawn up the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5479	This bill is about laying the legal basis for sharing the ownership rights of the Information Society's fund between the Norwegian Church and the State. Nevertheless, there is a good opportunity to consider how we should also manage the state part. I think it's important that the Storting give signals about it early in the process. The information society's fund owns massive properties all over the country. There may be important open-air areas, properties that are important for community communities, and real inner-file properties for development, to put it that way. Now that the fund is shared, the time is overdue to ensure that the state part of the fund assumes greater social responsibility and remains at the hands of the community. The fund shall not manage its properties solely for business and performance purposes, as any other property developer. No, these properties must also be managed for social reasons, such as community and outdoor life. There will eventually be a matter for the Stortinget about the management of the properties that the government receives after the division, and then SV will follow up on this further.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5488	Last year, a unanimous collapse declared the ownership of the Information Society Fund. The conclusion was that the values of the fund were to be shared between the state and the Norwegian Church. The assets that had a special church value are separated from the fund and transferred to the Norwegian Church. Other assets, that is, the fund of the remaining Information Service, become the property of the State. The conditions set by us and the Stortinget were that the state undertakes to strengthen its efforts to secure and restore the country's culturally valuable church building, nearly 1,000 pieces in number. This effort shall over time correspond to the value represented by the remaining fund for the country. Overall, the solution means that the entire fund, with values of several billion dollars, benefits the Norwegian Church. In order to implement the division in line with the Storting decision, a legislative change is needed. The government has therefore submitted proposals for a new law on the Information Society Fund, and the law will lay the legal basis for sharing the Fund. In the bill, we elaborate criteria for transfers and conditions for, among other things. that the church shall not be subject to losses as a result of taking over individual properties with large maintenance set-ups. The properties to be transferred and an assessment of the status of the properties are investigated by a separate share project. There are the Norwegian Church and the State, with the Information Society's fund, equivalent parties. In the setting, there are also some minor comments. Several of them address the question of the future management of the state’s share of the fund. It is important for me to stress that with this bill we will make it possible to share the fund and the conditions for it. We have been quite clear that this proposition does not address questions about how to manage the state part of the fund after sharing. The Stortinget has asked the government to come back later. Finally, all in all, I think the committee has given a good opinion. It expresses a broad political agreement on the new law on the Information Society Fund and further work. One of the most important things we have to do is to develop our own program, or to call it a strategic plan, to preserve the culturally important churches, and to get a real pace of refurbishment. This is a promise to take care of our common cultural and church history. In addition, many communities and communities will be confident that the local church building, to which many have a close relationship, will be maintained. That means a lot. I am very pleased that we have come as far as we are, and look forward to billions being spent on refurbishing the church buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5506	No one's ever asked for a line. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5513	As the President understands, the Christian People's Party is extra excited about what we are adopting today. Church buildings are among the most important cultural memories we have in the country, and many older church buildings are in poor condition and have a significant maintenance run. An increasingly wet climate makes the churches extra vulnerable to damage if the roof, tower and walls are not in good condition. Therefore, it is important to repair as much as possible of the oldest churches before damage causes it to be too late to secure the values. The Christian People's Party in government has therefore strengthened the efforts of our cultural-historical churches in the last two years. In 2020, a total of 72 million were allocated. NOK, and this year 60 million will be granted. kr for the preservation of cultural-historical important church buildings. We are excited that the sharing of the Information Society's fund in the long term will trigger good funds for the important work it is to preserve the churches in our country. The information service fund also has a large number of housing and leisure fixtures and has a substantial part of its income from them. But with two proposals in Stortinget, the Workers' Party, with the support of SV, tries to weaken the church's values by abolishing the Santa Claus Act – with the result that the plots can probably be sold at a lower price than those resulting from the Feast Agreement and the Feast Act, i.e. that the value of the fund is weakened, and that there is less to repair our churches. The churches in Norway are an important part of our Christian cultural heritage, and the buildings represent a Christian cultural history that we must take care of for future generations. These are buildings that mean a lot to many people both in everyday life and in important life events. That is why I think it is unmusical that the Workers' Party is promoting this proposal in this matter. I think it signals a lack of respect when they want to weaken the values of the fund. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to preserve and restore our church buildings as a strong symbol of our Christian cultural heritage, and I am very pleased that the Workers' Party's proposals have not received a majority. I am also very pleased that a unanimous decision has been taken that the entire value of the fund should benefit the Norwegian Church. There's a Christian People's Party on top of it, and we assume that the other parties do too. But we understand and understand that some actors are concerned about whether this is taken equally seriously if the Christian People's Party should not sit with the hand on the steering wheel of the belief and life-view policy in the next round, because it is worth noting that it is this government that has made a very great effort, and that has laid the good foundation for the promise that is now to be made for the restoration of our churches in the years to come. Today we are primarily very happy that all parties stand behind, and are in agreement with and adopt, this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5534	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5552	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5559	It has been engaging to be the case rapporteur for a matter that creates as much commitment as this, and it is also nice to get a case that reaps as many superlatives as this law has done. All the hearing bodies were positive about the law being passed, and they were largely satisfied with the content of the law, and with this law Norway is at the forefront of international affairs. Although the positive feedback has been resolved, of course, there have also been reports of improvements to the law, which can be summarised in three points: wish that site transparency requirements be included; wish for clearer requirements on environmental standards to be included the desire to include smaller enterprises more clearly in the law; I would like to thank the Committee for a good process in the work ahead of the vote. The result is that the law is adopted as presented by the government. The red-green parties have promoted several minority proposals. The progress party is out of configuration, but they will argue this for themselves. I need to say that the Right is very pleased with the law presented. Civil society, business and others have worked to establish a law of transparency, and I am proud that the government has done the task well. The majority are meeting a rapid implementation of the law. Several hearing bodies were also aware of this and considered that any adjustments that would require an investigation would have to wait until the notified evaluation of the law. The majority of the Committee is therefore concerned that the Ministry should indicate as early as possible a time for this evaluation and then return to the Stortinget with assessments, which are requested in several of the observations. The red-green batches propose that the definition of decent work by the ILO be taken into account in the law. Here the government parties indicate that the ministry has chosen to employ decent work. We consider this to be a linguistic change that is not meant to imply an actual narrowing of the term, but we expect the ministry to assess the use of concepts in the evaluation of the law. The Red-Greens also propose the inclusion of a reference to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child in proposed Section 3. Here the government parties point out that the definition of fundamental human rights, proposed in the law, complies with the UN guiding principles for business and human rights and the OECD guidelines for multinational companies. If we look at the comments in the actual legislative proposal relating to the definition of fundamental human rights, this is shown, among other things. until the Child Convention will be included in the definition. The majority of the Committee notes that the government recognises that the climate and environmental impact are closely linked to human rights. Several have made representations in the hearing to integrate environmental damage as part of the law. However, legal work in the field of environmental damage needs to be further explored in order to obtain the best possible basis for the law, and the majority therefore see that once this has been determined, the government will return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner. The Government Parties record the massive feedback on the inclusion of transparency of production sites in the law. However, we support the Ministry that the obligation proposed by the Ethics Information Committee is not sufficiently addressed. We therefore hope that a further investigation will be carried out on this matter before any such decision is taken, but at the same time we are concerned about, and I stress that this work should be given priority. One last area I would like to comment on is related to sanctions in the event of a breach of the law. Here the committee has received good input, and I am pleased that a broad majority is behind a clear comment on this. I will end by using the words of the Development and Environment Forum, which represents a network of 50 Norwegian civil society organisations. They wrote: ‘First of all, we would like to express our great satisfaction at the fact that there is now a concrete legislative proposal for consideration. Norwegian civil society has fought for a law of transparency for a number of years, and we will recognise that both the Ethics Information Committee and the Government have done a thorough job in this process.’ I end by joining the rosy words.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5598	Thank you to the rapporteur for a thorough and constructive cooperation on this matter. I can only agree that today I can share the joy with both the Right, the Left, the Center Party, the Advance Party and other parties who will vote for this law, because it is a very good law. But there's a sad story behind it. One remembers the building collapse in Bangladesh in 2013, an eight-storey factory collapsed. Over 3,000 people were at work. 138 workers died, and many were injured. In retrospect, several people were arrested for threatening workers to go to work even if the walls of the building had begun to crack. Workers had been suppressed for a long time, and there had been no focus on safety. The factory produced several known brands that were sold to Norwegian consumers. According to the UN Labour Organisation, more than 40 million people were victims of modern slavery in 2017. 25 million of these were linked to forced labour, and more than 16 million were directly linked to the private sector supply chains — subcontractors in global production chains, which are also used by Norwegian industry. Trafficking in human beings and social dumping are also taking place in Norway today. The government is following up the ethics information committee's recommendations in a good way. The Labour Party will point to the importance of working effectively to improve the working day of ordinary people through constructive tripartite cooperation. We remember all the general strike in 2015, with big demonstrations all over the country to protect a good working life for ordinary people. The Norwegian model is the medicine against the exploitation of workers – here as in the rest of the world. Internationally, the ILO takes the fight. I would like to point out their efforts to contribute to ensuring a decent working life for ordinary people around the world. That is why we are promoting a proposal that bases the definition of decent work by the ILO on the legal text, and I understand that the government parties choose not to comply with this. For us in the Workers' Party, it is a concept that is well known through the cooperation that the ILO has internationally, and I cannot understand that it would not be easy to support. Developments in product production over the past 30 to 50 years have changed. The competition has been sharpened and the prices have been squeezed. As a result, many goods are produced in factories in low-cost countries. Long supply chains make it challenging for businesses to have an overview of the actual working conditions at the production site. Civil society organisations contribute knowledge and keep the world up to date about criminal actors who do not care, with information and knowledge about human rights violations. And organizations like Amnesty, Unicef, Save the Children, Spire and many more, we are totally dependent on to act politically. Fortunately, many people choose to give consumers knowledge that the dress they have bought, or the mobile phone they hold in their hands, is not made under miserable working conditions in flammable rooms. A unanimous committee wanted greater transparency in 2016 about how businesses produce their products. And in 2017, the Workers' Party, the Center Party, SV, the Left and Christian People's Party secured a majority to set up an ethics information committee – and they delivered their report in 2019. The Labour Party believes that the law must impose site requirements in line with OECD and UN guidance principles and guidelines. It will allow consumers, trade unions and authorities to verify the information provided by businesses. The difference in the ethics information selection at this point is that there would be too much burden for the smaller enterprises, but now the law only covers the larger enterprises, so that argument doesn't weigh as heavily. This is also highlighted by the vast majority of the hearing bodies as the main flaw in the legislative proposal. The Transparency Act is important, and although we are disappointed that we do not get a majority in order for the law to impose requirements on transparency and the Children's Convention and the ILO definition, we must nevertheless be able to enjoy thoroughly the fact that we now have a law that sets a good framework for the exploitation of workers and that helps to ensure that employment becomes more decent. I take up the proposal of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5621	The representative Kari Henriksen then drew up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5626	As mentioned earlier, the Progress Party is opposed to this proposal, and I will explain why. We support the intention of what you're trying to fight here. We believe that Norwegian business already holds a high ethical standard in respect of respect for fundamental human rights and decent working conditions in the supply chain, and I am pleased that Norwegian business is concerned about these things. The intention of the proposal is good, but we believe that the requirements and requirements contained in the proposal for Norwegian business are not proportionate to the impact we believe it will have. We therefore believe that there are more appropriate and targeted ways of delivering on the good intentions of the proposal than, among other things, it does. new care assessments and other things that we believe could be unnecessary red tape, resource-intensive and costly without having the proportionate effect. We understand that what is said about care assessments can act as less interventional measures, but we record in the consultation input from business organisations that the commitments proposed are comprehensive for business, and we therefore believe that we should find more effective measures that we know can have a better impact. I would also like to point out that, sadly, more revelations have emerged over the years that even in public construction projects made by bodies such as the tax administration, the Prime Minister's office and others, subcontractors have been used that have been associated with various forms of labour-life crime. Although this is no reason not to fight that kind of thing, but really is a reason why one has to focus more on this, it is still illustrative how difficult it can be even for large public agencies with large resources to discover all the things that are unfortunate, which we do not want to happen when you have sub-contractors and complex value chains. I believe this also shows how demanding it can be for private companies, and that care assessments themselves, which are resource-intensive, do not necessarily help to reveal the kind of things that we want to fight. So with that reason, that we mean what is imposed on business here, is not in line with the effect we believe the kind of action will have, the Progress Party is going against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5641	This is a good and very important law, and I understand the enthusiasm it has given. It is also very gratifying that such a law is now being presented following the recommendation of the Ethics Information Committee's report and legislative proposal, a sample that was set up following a request decision on which we in the Centre Party participated. The Transparency Act is thus intended to promote the respect of fundamental human rights and decent working conditions by businesses and to contribute to more transparency in their activities. It will be a tool for consumers, trade unions and others who are concerned with how businesses operate and produce goods. This law has created a great deal of commitment, as the rapporteur spoke about, we saw it clearly in the hearing, and that is quite understandable. With this law, as consumers, we get a strengthened right to information about how the products we buy are produced. It is good because consumers today have become much more aware of both what they buy, how they buy it, how it is produced, and under what conditions it is produced. For example, people want to do this. know whether the food contains high levels of antibiotics or whether it is children who have sewn their clothes. Two weeks ago, together with my son in eleven years, I saw the well-known reporter Stacy Dooley's document on the hair-removing conditions under which the clothes in our chain shops are produced. In countries such as Kazakhstan, the production of jeans drains solid geographical areas for water resources — while the inhabitants of Indonesia, most of them very poor, who live in the big cities producing clothing, have to bathe in and drink toxic water as a result of all the chemicals the clothing factories simply drain out into all the watercourses. My son, if possible, was more unwell and shocked than I was and asked how we can avoid buying clothes made in this way. Then I said it would be easier when Mom at work was soon involved in adopting a law to provide such information. - Well, then it might also say that the jersey is made in Indonesia? my boy asked. No, unfortunately, the government and a party called the Progress Party will not be in it, I would have to answer. Both my son and the Central Party are very disappointed that there is no majority in favour of the proposal for the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the SV to demand that the establishments covered by the law also be required to publish the place of production of the product. The centre party believes that the law had also become even better if the ILO definition of decent work had been used and that the term ‘decent work’ was used instead of ‘decent employment’. We also believe that the human rights of children would have been better protected if the law had referred to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. But I think in the whole thing that there's good reason to be satisfied that what seems to be the very last thing the committee is debating in this room in this big period, is of such a nature that we can say happy that we've done a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5658	Today is a happy day. Finally, the Stortinget adopts a law of transparency for business relations with fundamental human rights and decent work in its production. Unfortunately, we know that many companies make a lot of money to break fundamental human rights and to exploit workers roughly in other countries. The Klesfabrik Rana Plaza, also mentioned by the representative Henriksen, collapsed in Bangladesh in 2013, and it stands as a tragic monument to this. There, brand clothing was produced for consumers, among others. Norway, but the factory was not built safely. It collapsed, and 1 138 people were killed. The Rana Plaza collapse has been referred to as the Rana Plaza massacre. This law is about preventing such tragic events, for companies are not allowed to violate human rights and exploit workers in the dark. It has to be in the light, and we who trade the goods have to see – when we buy something – that everything is in the care. That is why I would like to congratulate the social movements and civil society that have been working on this matter for a long time. Now we finally adopt the law. But it is disappointing that the law in a few areas has become weaker than we expected from the ethics information committee's proposal for law a few years ago. Firstly, it is unfortunate that the government proposes to abandon the use of the concept of decent work by the Ethics Information Committee and to replace it with ‘decent employment’. The ILO adopted the framework for decent work in 2008 and the concept of decent work is anchored and established internationally. ‘Working conditions’ is a narrow concept that does not include social security through social security schemes and participation through party cooperation. That is why we believe that the concept of the ILO and the 'decent work' agenda should be taken into account in the legislative text, and we therefore propose it. Secondly, we are in the midst of a global climate and natural crisis. Climate and natural disasters pose a serious risk to the fundamental rights of life, health, food and an adequate standard of living. However, the care assessments required by the law have included in the proposal natural and environmental damage only in relation to other rights. It's too weak. Environmental damage is also part of the French law of care and is in line with the UN's sustainability objectives. Therefore SV proposes to include environmental damage in itself. Thirdly, contrary to the proposals of the Ethics Information Committee, the legislative proposal has not included an active requirement for transparency around the place of production. It's a significant weakening of the law. An active information obligation would help to increase the quality of the care assessments because the information could be traced to individual production sites. This would allow consumers, trade unions, authorities and others to verify the information provided by the enterprise. That reprobability, especially to civil society, I would say, would be able to promise this law significantly. LO says, among other things: in the case where the publication of the place of production will also facilitate the work of the trade union movement and enable the link between professional movements in a consumer country and trade movements in a producer country. It would have been important. In addition, including such an active obligation is already well established by the sample. The selection manager himself says that Stortinget can safely change the law in the treatment at this point, but it does not. Unfortunately, the government parties misjudge the matter by promising further investigations and assessments. That's not good enough for SV. But in total, this is a big step forward and an important victory for civil society that has fought it out. The Ministry has followed up the recommendations of the Ethics Information Committee in a good way in general. And then we'll see how long the government is going to figure out and assess the transparency of the production site. In a few months I think that someone else can start the job of getting that law change in place even faster. I'll deal with the suggestions SV has.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5681	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5686	A law of transparency is an important KrF breakthrough and something we've been working for too long, so I'm proud that an overall committee, apart from the Progress Party, is united in adopting this law today. With this law, Norway is a precursor country. The aim is to combat slavery and improve the working conditions of those who make the goods – the goods that the regular consumer buys and benefits, perhaps without any further consideration of the conditions under which those who have produced the goods actually work. No human should live or work in slavery or in slavery-like conditions. I know that many businesses in Norway are concerned that products and services they offer are produced under good working conditions. At the same time, many businesses lack an overview of the conditions in their supply chains, with the consequence that many goods sold in Norwegian shops today are produced under poor working conditions. Both the Ethics Information Committee report and recent business surveys show that volunteering is not enough to achieve improvements in global supply chains. Mandatory legislation must exist. The Transparency Act follows up the ethics information committee’s report and legislative proposals. A law of transparency shall promote the respect of fundamental human rights and decent working conditions by businesses and contribute to greater transparency in their activities. First of all, the law applies to larger establishments, so this is a first step. Once the law has worked for a period, we will evaluate it, and it is only after a period that we will have a clear picture of the effect and the appropriateness of the law. It would then be natural to consider an extension of the law at the same time, for example. to include small and other areas, such as the impact on the environment. Still more than 40 million people are victims of various forms of modern slavery. Modern slavery today is among the most serious human rights violations, and it has been the government's desire to intensify the work of abolishing all forms of slavery. Yes, it must be eradicated if the world is to achieve the UN’s sustainability goal. This is about combating forced labour, trafficking in human beings, gross child labour and forced marriage. A law of transparency shall help to combat the slavery of our time, and the law shall help to prevent and detect cases where people are underpaid or not paid at all – cases where people work under highly critical conditions. The Christian People's Party hopes that the new law will help to give workers worldwide better working conditions and decent wages. At the same time, we have to work on several fronts. In the 2019 Granavolden platform, the government confirmed that we would step up efforts against modern slavery and bring it together in a dedicated assistance programme, and in July 2020 the new assistance programme was launched. The main objective of the programme is to reduce the prevalence and extent of modern slavery in selected partner countries and sectors. Now the first agreements have been concluded, and it is also a very important KrF impact. Even though the challenges are big, we're on the right track. Most people in society also focus more on where the goods we trade in the store come from. We buy less, and business is busy taking more social responsibility. The Christian People's Party feels very happy that we now have a law of transparency, and we really hope that this law and the other measures we take in the field will work together with the positive trend we see in people becoming more aware of their responsibilities as consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5709	First, I would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee for their good work and for their good work. Someone might bite himself a little bit when they commend the government's work, but I'm recording that there is a unanimity and a joy over the law, and I think that's very nice, because it's an important law that's to be passed. Many establishments in Norway are concerned that the products they offer are produced under good working conditions. At the same time, we know that safeguarding human rights and decent working conditions in global supply chains is a major and complex challenge. Many businesses lack an overview of the impact of business and supply chains on human rights and working conditions. This means that some goods sold in Norwegian shops today are produced under poor working conditions. I am therefore proud that the government has presented the proposal for an Transparency Act. This bill brings Norway into the forefront of a more responsible business life, respecting human rights and decent working conditions. At the same time, we propose a law that will ensure the public, such as consumers and organisations, increased access to information on the work of businesses in this field. There is little transparency about the conditions in the global supply chain, and that makes it demanding, among other things. consumers to make ethical purchasing decisions. The objective is for the Transparency Act to do something about this. The legislative proposal is based on the recommendations deriving from international principles for responsible business. The government today expects all Norwegian companies to act responsibly and to know and comply with these principles. The proposal to carry out due diligence assessments means that businesses must work actively to identify and address negative impacts on human rights and working conditions. Action assessments as a method are central to the international guidelines and principles. The objective is that the obligation to carry out care assessments will raise awareness of human rights violations in the establishments and contribute in the long term to the more ethical production of goods sold in Norwegian shops. The bill follows up the ethics information committee's report and legislative proposals that were handed over to me in the autumn of 2019. The ethics information committee gave us a solid investigation and a good bill to build on. However, there are some of the sample recommendations we have chosen not to follow up now. We need, among other things: more time to consider any obligation to publish site information. These include: a question of how the obligation can and should be designed and the relationship with other legislation needs to be further assessed. I understand that many would like to see the bill contained such an obligation, as this will contribute more to transparency and facilitate the work of testing the work of businesses. But we must come back to this later, if further assessments show that the obligation is appropriate and practicable. I think it is important that the Transparency Act now comes into place, and we have therefore had to do some priorities along the way. I believe that the obligations that the government has now proposed will be a solid and important step in the right direction. Then we have to consider adaptations and extensions gradually, when we see the effects of the law. We have submitted an evaluation of the law after a period. Here we will, among other things: be able to assess an extension of the law to smaller establishments, as recommended by the sample. We also want to include the notions of including environmental impact in the law in the further work. I am very pleased that the proposal for transparency law has been accepted, both by civil society and by business. The selection report and recent business surveys show that there is a time for binding legislation to achieve improvements in global supply chains and that there is insufficient volunteering. I am very pleased that the Storting will adopt this, and then I am proud that Norway gets the most ambitious law in its battle worldwide. I am very happy that it means a change in many people's lives and is an important step in the fight against our time's slavery.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5735	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5740	I just want to drill a little bit in this with decent work and working life. There is no doubt that the definition of a decent working life by the ILO is wider than what you can imagine is in ‘employment’. All the sustainability objectives show that a comprehensive approach to working life is needed to ensure that sustainability objectives are achieved. Therefore, as I said in my post, it is strange that the government chooses not to use the concept of ILO, which is known. This is an international term that everyone knows what it's all about. The ILO has been working for many years, and they have had good results. At the same time, the position writes that they think it's a linguistic change. How does the Council of State interpret these two different concepts?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5747	We have always had the objective that the Transparency Act and the concepts we have used should be as simple as possible to understand and in line with international law and conventions. It is quite right, as the majority writes, that when we chose to use the wording we use, about ‘decent working conditions’, it was just meant to be a linguistic change – nothing substantive – both because it fit better into the legal text, and because our experience was that it is so popular. There is nothing in this term that should invert something – on the contrary. It's also the case that another evaluation, as I'm notifying and rewriting in the proposition, so if there's any doubt about this, and it turns out in some way that's not intended, it's possible to adjust it after the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5752	We're in a wait-and-see mode from this government, and we're used to it. However, I cannot understand why a new term should be used, which has not been used before. So in the government you can think of a new concept. Then I ask again, what is the reason why you cannot use a term that is known and established and that the different social partners have used for many years? I wonder if it can have as a background what we have also seen in the Granavolden platform – that one is not really very excited about the organized working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5757	First of all, I want to say that here it's far from any wait-and-see attitude. We've been working on bombs to get this done. As the representative knows, there was a selection that set and worked on this, which did not have a mandate to produce its own legal text. We extended that mandate, so that they also made proposals for a new law, precisely so that we could present it. We've been working on bombs to get this case dealt with during the period, because it's so important. As I said, we're actually in the front of the world when it comes to this kind of law. I believe that many other countries, and not least the EU, will look at what Norway is doing when, hopefully, they are going to improve their legislation. So I can cancel all of the speculations about the reasons for change. We are engaged in tripartite cooperation, which is extremely important. The only thing that has been is a linguistic change, because it has worked better in the legal text. As I said, if anything works the opposite, we can happily change it after an evaluation later.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5764	I'm not going to drill in this, and I'm not going to be ironic, but I have to say that it's strange – when we have an organization in the ILO, which has a close cooperation with all the countries across Europe and across the world, and which has used this term for so many years – that it's better to use the legal text to fit 'employment'. I do not understand what is in the legal text that means that ‘a decent working life’ is not suitable in the legal text. It's known, it's used. The content is much more known in the world of work than ‘work’. I think the council might have to try to explain it to me again. Is it more important to get into the legal text that fits into the legal text than it is to use a concept that is well-known in the whole world, based on all the sustainability goals, and that guarantees people a decent working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5771	Now that's not what's in the conventions. It's decent work. What we're going to change this to is "decent employment". As I said, there has been no desire to change the content of the term. On the contrary, we have believed that ‘work’ could continue to falter and thus ensure that workers are well-being. As I said in my post, this has been an important part of the work against our time's slavery. I have no other reason. There has been no rethinking at all. It's only been a linguistic change. The lawyers have thought that this is the best, and I've followed it up. I think it's a good description of what we're busy about, and I'm sure this will help a lot of people get better work and better working conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5778	The Ministry has proposed that the concept of ‘basic human rights’ should include the human rights deriving, inter alia, from: The United Nations Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights and the ILO core conventions on fundamental rights and principles in working life. So the Children's Convention is not clearly mentioned. The government says that it assumes that the Children's Convention is part of these fundamental human rights, and I take that as a matter of course – it should just be lacking – and it has the Stortinget registered. However, I wonder why the government doesn't want to get the Children's Convention out of hand when you first mention other conventions, because it's just been so much focused on child labour, and we know there's a lot left. Maybe you could think that children need to focus on them especially when you first mention the convention?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5787	I would like to thank you for an important question. I fully agree that some of this is about avoiding child labour and guaranteeing children's rights. So, as the representative actually refers to, the sample proposed this. Instead of mentioning all the conventions and international agreements, we have referred to the basics, and thus thought that the Children's Convention is covered by it. We have discussed it, especially since it has been discussed in the committee, that if we feel that there is a need for it, it is also an opportunity to elaborate on it in regulations, to ensure that this is followed up – because I fully share the intention promised by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5792	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox Case No. 12 and 13 are being treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5825	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, there will be no replication, and those who draw on the voice list in addition to the time allocated will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5832	To be addressed, these two positions concern agreements concluded with foreign powers in 2016 and with foreign powers or international organisations in 2017. For both cases it is such that according to the Basic Law § 75 (g) and with respect to kgl.res. of 9 April 2021, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has notified the Stortinget Agreements concluded by Norway with foreign countries or international organisations in 2016 and 2017. In line with established practice, the list does not cover development assistance agreements. The Committee refers to the proposal submitted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on agreements concluded with foreign powers in 2016 and 2017 and has no further comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5843	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 12 and 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5860	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, no lines will be given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the time allocated will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The first speaker is Trine Skei Grande. It does not appear to be in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5869	This concerns consent to the conclusion of two agreements with Norway and Denmark/Faeroes and with Iceland on the demarcation of the continental shelf outside 200 nautical miles in the southern Smuthavet respectively. In this area, the three countries have overlapping continental bases. The two agreements and a similar agreement between Denmark and Iceland were signed during the Nordic Council session on 30 October 2019. The agreements are essentially based on a model agreement drawn up by Norway and Denmark and Iceland in 2006 and clarify the demarcation lines between Norwegian, Icelandic and Danish sockets and where they are to be drawn. This also makes it clear which state has the right to the resources available on the seabed, and it creates clarity and predictability in terms of future use of resources in the Smuthavet. In addition to provisions on demarcation lines, the agreement between Norway and Denmark/Faeroes also provides for the management of cross-border hydrocarbons and other minerals, and for Norway and Iceland this is regulated in a 2008 agreement. In Denmark, Folketinget has recently given its consent to the conclusion of the agreement with Norway and Iceland, and I hope that the Stortinget can do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5880	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5897	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, no lines will be given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the time allocated will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5904	I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. It is a unanimous committee that adheres to the government's proposal for a new law on the continental shelf of Norway, thus bringing together the definition of the continental shelf in one law. It will help to confirm the legal basis for resource use on the continental shelf. I want to refer to the setting and also have no comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5909	I refer you to the rapporteur's statement and support it and the committee's decision-making. When I take the word, it's not to say it – because it's a pretty natural thing to say – but I want to say in relation to this that today it's been 50 years since the Ekofisk opened; it's relevant to mention in this context. I also want to say – President and good big things – that after a long political life I have experienced too many times that important big decisions can go through almost without anyone recording it. This is a decision of this kind, for this case merges into a long, important action pattern that the Workers' Party has stood for, and that the whole Storting has also faced many times. For the sake of political curiosity, I have found out what Einar Gerhardsen said about similar matters on May 31, 1963. It was then determined that: ‘The sea bed and subsoil of the off-shore subsoil areas of the Kingdom of Norway are subject to Norwegian State sovereignty in terms of the exploitation and exploration of natural resources, as far as the depth of the sea allows the exploitation of natural resources, irrespective of the other sea borders in force, but not beyond the centreline in relation to other countries.’ It was in 1963. Then we got the whole process that the Nordli government and Jens Evensen were at the forefront of the development of the law of the sea, which has given us very many legal foundations to stand on with regard to the question we are dealing with here. I would also mention the efforts of Jonas Gahr Støre in the 1980s to map and document and recognise the Norwegian continental shelf and, of course, the dividing line towards Russia. When we read the settings of the current government, we see that they say something of the same thing: ‘The purpose of the law is to define Norway’s continental shelf in line with the law of the sea and to facilitate the determination of the exact limits of the king’. So what the government is proposing here falls into the historical line, which I think is worth noting when we adopt such an important law and collect the laws in an efficient and correct way. That is why, like the rapporteur, I fully support what is proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5926	I am pleased that both the case rapporteur and the representative of Kolberg took the floor, and I can also join in everything that was said. In order to use a little big words for the occasion, it's really rare for a government to promote a bill with such a historic trick as it is above this law. For this is ultimately about where the boundaries of what is our country should be drawn. "You can't see that boundary under water," I think we can all remember from sketches in the 1980s. But said in a slightly more formal way, the purpose of this law is precisely to define Norway's continental shelf in line with the law of the sea and to facilitate the King's setting the exact limits for this. So if you can't see the ‘underwater limit’, it's all the more important to know where it goes. The background to the draft law under consideration in the United Kingdom today is that the continental shelf of all coastal states extends immediately to 200 nautical miles from the baselines. But there are many coastal states, including Norway, that have bases that extend beyond 200 nautical miles. In such cases, the outer boundary of the socket to the international seas areas outside the continental shelf Commission in New York must be documented. Based on the technical criteria set out in the Maritime Law Commission, the Commission assesses the documentation provided by the coastal States and makes its recommendation on where to draw the external borders. We documented the outer boundary of the continental shelf outside the mainland, Svalbard and Jan Mayen for the Continental Soccer Commission in 2006, and the documentation for Norwegian Soccer outside the Bouvet Island and Queen Maud Land was provided to the Commission in 2009. We also have demarcation agreements with all of our neighbouring countries. So today's law empowers us to define these coordinates and bounding lines. However, the law will not regulate resource use or scientific exploration on Norway’s continental shelf; it will result from special laws. A law on the continental shelf of Norway will confirm the legal basis for the use of this resource on the pedestal by allowing the outer boundaries of the international sea basin and the demarcation lines to be determined against the continental pedestals of neighbouring countries in compliance with the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5937	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5954	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, lines will not be given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the time allocated will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5961	Israel is in a troubled part of the world, I think most of us have seen for a long time, and on several occasions in history has also had to fight for its existence. No matter what one might think of the unresolved question of Palestinian conditions, one cannot deny this. Israel is also now in a special time. Next week, the National Assembly of the country will vote on a new government, consisting of eight parties and two rotating prime ministers. If it joins, the new government will embrace all eight parties, from left to right. For the first time, an Arab party will be part of the government majority, and there will be nine female ministers. Many, along with me, will hope for a peaceful future in Israeli politics. The question is whether Norway can contribute constructively to this. If we look at the parties on the left in Norway, we will at least distance ourselves from the country. Several parties call for either a unilateral recognition of a Palestinian State or want to boycott Israeli goods. The present proposal from the Progress Party has a counter-motivation, it wants to give strong symbolic support to Israel. I thank my colleagues in the Progress Party for a well-argued proposal to move the Norwegian Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. As the rapporteur on the matter, I have been able to make good use of the arguments put forward in the proposal, and they are partly good. However, we cannot support the proposal. There's an important reason for this. An official recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel by the Norwegian side would be inconsistent with the Oslo Agreement and subsequent decisions and declarations of Norway. In UN resolutions Norway has agreed that the official status of Jerusalem must be determined by means of a permanent peace agreement between Israel and the Palestinian people. Furthermore, Norway has not been served alone in this matter. Besides the United States, there is hardly any country that has announced its intention to move its embassies from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. I would also like to stress that the US Embassy today distributes its time between one office in Tel Aviv and one in Jerusalem, and that this is the case at both locations. Norway, as a member of the UN Security Council and as an active party to the peace process, needs to demonstrate sensitivity and predictability on sensitive issues such as this. That is why the majority of the Committee and the Right believe that the Storting should not, at this stage, oblige the government to make a move for our embassy in Israel. To be a bit party-political: the right is a supporter of close and good cooperation with Israel. We have raised this both in the Granavolden platform and in a new decision in our major elections programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e5989	Jerusalem was declared a capital city in Israel right after its establishment in 1948, based on its unique role in Jewish history, religion and culture. Jerusalem houses the nation's national assembly, the Knesset, the Supreme Court and almost all the departments, and is the political center of Israel. The Norwegian Embassy is located in Tel Aviv. It is natural for the Norwegian Embassy to be added to the capital of Israel, Jerusalem. Let me give you a little bit of a reason for this. It is claimed that an embassy move violates concluded peace agreements. But the only consensus reached on Jerusalem is that the status and demarcation of the city will form part of a final peace agreement between the parties. The status and limits of Jerusalem must therefore be determined in the final status negotiations. It is fully possible to move the embassy to Jerusalem and acknowledge that the city is the capital of Israel, without at the same time considering the final status and demarcation of the city. This is, among other things, the basis for the decision of the United States to move its embassy to Jerusalem. It was claimed that the efforts to get the parties back to the negotiating table would be made difficult if Norway moved the embassy to Jerusalem. I can agree that there has been little movement in peace negotiations between the parties in recent years, but I doubt that Norwegian political decisions will contribute to the peace process – neither positive nor negative. It was claimed that the US decision would contribute to increased instability in the region. It's turned out not to vote. On the contrary, after the opening of the embassy, a number of peace agreements have been concluded between Israel and other countries in the region. There is not a lack of conflict and instability in the Middle East, but neither tragedies as in Syria, in Yemen, nor the so-called Arab Spring can be linked to Jerusalem's status. It is also noted that various UN resolutions prevent Norway from moving the embassy to Jerusalem, as mentioned above. With regard to the 1980 UN Security Council resolution, these are the specific coin that Israel declared United Jerusalem its capital. That is, Israel included the districts under Israel’s control during the Six - Day War in 1967. But the best parts of the city were already part of Israel in 1948. The Security Resolution does not deal with these. The position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is that the parts of today’s Jerusalem that Israel controlled before 1967 are part of Israel. Then there can be nothing in the way of the embassy being moved to a part of Jerusalem which, according to the Norwegian official view, is part of Israel. So it's not about opportunity, it's about will. It is also an independent point that all sovereign countries themselves should have the right to designate their capital, without any review by the UN. The UN is not a supranational body. It's strange that this doesn't apply to Israel. I refer to the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6010	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6015	I really didn't intend to take the word in this case. I believe that this matter is very clear: we do not believe anything about this issue until there is a negotiated agreement on a two-state solution – sentence. It's been Norwegian line all along. I'm not surprised that the Progress Party believes otherwise, they have always meant that, but I'm a little surprised by the argument from the Right Representative, who goes on a purely formalistic basis that we should not overdo the government at this point. That's why I think it's natural that I say that before the Foreign Minister has the floor here. We've seen over the last few years that the Right, especially at its national meeting, took a gradual turn in its attitude. I believe Norway should be balanced on this issue, and there has been Norwegian policy all the time that there has to be a negotiated agreement on a two-state solution. That's why we don't want to move the capital. I am simply asking the Foreign Minister to clarify that in his statement, and perhaps the representative Schous will have his contributions on her behalf. I hope the Minister of Foreign Affairs will clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6022	I will first praise the Advance Party for addressing this matter. I recognize it. SV also addresses Israel–Palestina issues at Stortinget from time to time, and one must of course have the opportunity to do so, even though this proposal has very little support in Stortinget. I think the proposal is quite premature and quite a bit sensitive. After a time of considerable conflict in the region, this proposal really seems to be merely a provocation, so we naturally support the majority. I fully agree with those who say that the capital question must of course be resolved by the parties themselves, and that the international community should be very careful about going in and pushing an embassy to a capital without there necessarily being a clear agreement about it among the parties themselves, and there we are not today. Then maybe I don't agree. We in SV definitely agree that Norway should have a balanced position in this, but a balanced position is not about leaving Israel to be held accountable. It is quite obvious that it is Israel that is occupying, it is obvious that it is Israel that is pursuing its aggressive settlement policy, and it is Israel that must be at the forefront of international law for the violations of international law that they have. A dream that Norway will return to a peace brokerage position and be an actor in order to do so must not remove the fact that Israel must also be held accountable. With regard to the conflict that has been over the past few weeks, we believe that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has not been sufficiently clear in making Israel responsible for their violation of international law. But back to the question of embassies: we believe that bilateral moves by a unilateral move from Norway to place our embassy in a particular place will only increase frustration in the region. We are facing a very desperate Palestinian people, who are even using bombs to get attention at a time when they are no longer in the world's search light, when, among other things, the Syrian conflict and the Yemen conflict. has taken the attention of what is going on in the area. In that case, it is not up to Norway to contribute to increasing the frustration on the Palestinian side in this kind of provocative action. Our task, of course, is to contribute to the peace process in the future, but we should not play our cards in such a way that the conflict increases by making the parties more desperate, or supporting an ultra-nationalist right-wing side in Israel. Our task is, of course, that the parties should be held responsible under international law, and we must be very, very clear about that. That is why we believe that the proposal for the Progress Party is premature, and we will, of course, reject it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6033	Unfortunately, the conflict situation in the Middle East is long and complex, and in particular the conflict between the State of Israel and the Palestinians. Norway has tried to facilitate diplomatic negotiations on several occasions, and in a conflict with many unresolved neighbouring conditions, this conflict can only be resolved through dialogue through the contribution of the international community. The Christian People's Party has a strong desire and objective for Norway to contribute to such a development, even if it takes time. The party's proposal for a representative is in a way a little fragmented, and we consider it an electoral act, even if we share the impatience in the matter. Most, and at least the Advance Party, know that the Christian People's Party has programmed the move of the embassy for a number of years. But we're not being lured here, because we're going to contribute to real-world political breakthroughs that help the Middle East parties, rather than go into a symbolic cause to hijack voters in Norway. Of course, the Christian People’s Party will support the matter at a time when the objective cannot send bad and unnecessary signals. The Christian People's Party has been in several governments and has not realized the program point for that very reason. The party of progress has been in government for six to seven years. In that case, the party has not mentioned, negotiated or promoted the proposal. That they now in opposition choose to promote the proposal in the election season is therefore nothing but a political game and freedom for voters who have a strong commitment to the matter. For this reason, it is good that the Christian People's Party should develop its vision with our in-depth knowledge and contacts. Norwegian foreign policy shall and shall not be governed by a loose proposal for a representative. Although I agree that the move is a goal, the time is not right. This is a conflict where two people suffer, and where the solution lies in political bridge construction and pragmatic solutions, although we can have strong opinions about the parties. There are good reasons for moving. In view of the history of Norway as a peace nation, an emphasis must be placed on whether our action is peace-making or something which is clearly also best served by the State of Israel in the long term. We know from a relatively good knowledge of both the parties and the conflict and as friends of the state of Israel that isolating embassies to a principle issue is neither constructive nor solution-oriented. The fact that the President of the United States is known for blowing processes selected the transfer of postal address and status from the embassy in Tel Aviv to a branch office in Jerusalem cannot be decisive for Norwegian foreign policy. We want to contribute to peace and security in the Middle East, and the time is not now, although we can be impatient in the matter in the same way as the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6046	Let me first stress that in the context of the conflict that broke out just a short time ago, Norway took a very active role in the Security Council. Together with China and Tunisia, we called in four meetings in eight days to contribute to a truce. I have also taken a clear distance from and condemn all attacks on civilians, we have increased our humanitarian support for Gaza, and not least we have also underlined Israel's right to self-defense within the proportionality limits that apply. So there were more than 3,000 rockets coming in from Gaza, and it's also worth bringing in this picture. In line with the Granavolden platform, the government is building a balanced attitude towards the Middle East conflict, and our basic positions are based on a broad, cross-political consensus that has been established throughout this reign. Jerusalem’s status is one of several absolutely central issues that must be resolved through negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians. Jerusalem has a strong symbolic significance, and both Israelis and Palestinians claim Jerusalem as their capital. It is also a holy city for three world religions. Until the two parties to the conflict themselves have come to a peace settlement, including an agreement on Jerusalem's status, the great majority of the world's country wants to avoid doing actions that may be perceived as preempting the outcome. There is a solid line in the Norwegian Middle East policy that any move of the embassy to Jerusalem will only take place when there is a negotiated peace settlement between the two parties. An overwhelming majority of the world’s diplomatic representation countries in Israel also have their embassies in Tel Aviv. Norway has close, long-term and friendly relations with both Israelis and Palestinians, and both of us see ourselves as impartial and consistent. We are considered to be a predictable partner, and it has been crucial that we have been able to contribute to the efforts for peace agreement and two-state solution. We work through the donor country group for Palestine to strengthen the institutional and economic basis of the two-state solution. Any move of the embassy would be a marked breach of our long-standing line in the Middle East policy. Such a decision would be seen internationally as anticipating the outcome of a solution between the parties, and our balanced approach would be called into question. It could again be interpreted as choosing sides of the conflict, and could reduce our impact on the parties. It is also worth noting that any move of the embassy would be contrary to decisions taken by the UN Security Council. It is also, in our opinion, a clear confirmation from the Security Council that the decision taken by the 1980 Law of Jerusalem of Israel is a clear violation of international law and without international law. Moving the Embassy of Norway before the question of Jerusalem's status is resolved will break the long lines of Norway's positions in the question, go across international practices and weaken our balanced position.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6065	It's interesting to hear the representatives who say the same year out and years in and out and don't come any further, but they're convinced they're right. Maybe you should get some new views and look a little bit different in the world than you do today. To the representative Eide, who says that Hamas bombs to get attention: well, they do. I would also like to say that this proposal for a representative was put forward before the last conflicts in Israel and Gaza, so that has to be taken care of. That was not why we promoted it either. That's the truth. So to the representative Tuskedal, who thinks it's populist of us to promote it now, but says that the Christian People's Party agrees: they agree in position and opposition, but they don't promote any suggestion. How long should one agree when one has the opportunity both in position and in opposition, but does not promote it anyway? Then you might as well delete it from the party program, because it has no credibility. Well, then the Progress Party didn't fight this through in government, but we're trying to get it through in opposition, hoping that, for example. The Christian People's Party and some others who are happy in Israel are voting for this proposal. So to the representative Anniken Huitfeldt: Huitfeldt says that this is going up in the final status negotiations. Where does it say? Where is this against the final status negotiations? Final status negotiations may still mean that the Embassy of Norway is located in Jerusalem, just as the United States believes, and eventually several other countries – Guatemala is a different country. Kosovo has considered doing so. Several other countries have entered there. This is because they believe in trade and investment rather than conflict. That's what Abraham Accords was all about, that is, investing in investments and trading to get to what can happen in the Middle East, that people are more concerned with creating jobs, creating values, than continuing the conflict. Therefore, Norway can facilitate this by recognising Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and adding our embassy to Jerusalem. To the Foreign Minister's assertion that this is in violation of the 1980 resolution: that is not true, because there was another Jerusalem we talked about. It was the eternal city. Jerusalem included everything. That was the starting point – what is called United Jerusalem. That's what was Israel's starting point, but that's not what necessarily becomes the final status when the negotiations are over. But moving the embassy has nothing to do with it. It is a sign to Israel that we understand that they are the only democracy in the Middle East, and that we understand that they have the right to know what is their own capital. There is no other country to decide where it should be. If you set up offices in both Tel Aviv and Jerusalem, you have to do it as long as we accept that our embassy, along with the U.S. Embassy and a number of other embassies, will be in the capital of Israel, Jerusalem.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6078	The representative asked why we're not doing anything, whether we're in government or in opposition. That's because we have the same view of whether we're in opposition or in government. I believe that in my post I did well to explain why in this case we will wait for a situation where this is appropriate. We believe that there are far more important things we want to contribute to getting a dialogue and to bring the situation a little further, and that is not the way to go. Now we know that there are new negotiations between the United States and the Palestinians, between the United States and Israel, between Palestine and Israel. The Abraham agreement has come into place. We know what the EU means. We know about the donor country group, as the foreign minister has explained, and we are now sitting in the Security Council. I would strongly encourage the Minister for Foreign Affairs to influence the active contribution of Norway there. So we all know that much of what's behind here has a larger setting, namely the situation in Iran. But to conclude, we in the Christian People's Party will consider whether the proposals that come in the Middle East are polarising or are peace-promoting. Our conclusion today is clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6086	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6103	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, no lines will be given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the time allocated will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6110	The proposal falls into two parts. Firstly, the government is asked to take an initiative as a member of the UN Security Council to set up an international criminal court to prosecute members and sympathizers of IS in the region. The second part is that the Stortinget also asks the government that Norway, through membership of the Security Council, work to ensure settlement opportunities in the region. I would like to begin by saying that the Committee fully agrees with the views of the proposers on IS, and that the prosecution of international crimes, genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes is strongly wanted and misled. The Committee has also noted that, in its letter to the Committee, the Minister for Foreign Affairs expresses the importance of an effective, independent and credible prosecution of the massive abuses that have taken place. However, neither Syria nor Iraq are States Parties which have ratified the Rome Statutes, which formed the basis for the establishment of the ICC, the International Criminal Court, and are therefore dependent on a situation-specific referral from the UN Security Council to obtain an extension of the mandate when establishing a so-called ad hoc elections. Norway has taken the initiative in the past, and this has been blocked by the veto acts. One has to think about whether such an initiative has prospects for success, with the consequences it has of failure to achieve. However, this is foreign policy in its exercise, for which it is up to the government to look at the possibility under our governance system. We do not find it unnatural at all if the government had found the opportunity to repeat the initiatives from earlier years, from 2014, but it is therefore not the Stortinget who, through Document 8 proposals, dictates when the time and opportunity for this is at hand. I also remember that these crimes have a very long limitation period, given that there are conflicts that are causing war acts to be resolved, in order to bring the parties to justice, primarily in those countries that have a first-line responsibility to bring their citizens to justice under international law. I can come back to further justification, but that is in short the reason why we do not vote directly for this proposal, but stick to common practice and work sharing between government and big business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6125	To the former speakers: It is obvious that it is not the Stortinget that is engaged in executive policy, but it is actually our role to try to influence the government to pursue the policy we want it to pursue and that we believe is right. It's our responsibility. When the government was running election campaigns to get Norway into the Security Council, according to the government, it was to make a difference. Now that Norway is to lead the Sanctions Committee against ISIL and Al Qaida, this is an opportunity to go from word to action. Norway’s position has long been that the Security Council should refer the situation in Syria to the ICC, but that this has not been possible. Fortunately, initiatives are being taken in the region to find a solution. Iraqi and Kurdish officials are now planning to establish their own court to prosecute accused members of the Islamic State in a solution that could lead to older members of the terrorist group being brought to Iraq to meet in court. The legislation introduced in the Kurdish Parliament in April of this year has increased the possibility that suspects arrested in the years since the collapse of the extremist group may be transferred to a court in the northern city of Erbil in order to be prosecuted with international support. While the court will initially deal with suspects accused of committing crimes in Iraq, political leaders in Erbil have flagged the potential for it to also be used to test members arrested throughout the Middle East and beyond. The Prime Minister of the Kurdish regional government, Massoud Barzani, has stated that once it is passed, the laws will create the legal framework necessary to prosecute IS terrorists for their crimes against our people and humanity in general. UNITAD supports a parallel process in the national parliament in Baghdad. IS terrorists shall be traced and judged for their terrorist activities. The intention of the Progress Party with this proposal is that Norway can use its place in the Security Council for something constructive and influence its actual action. At the same time, such a court must be a settlement with ideology and religious fanaticism, so that it does not continue to spread. For example, in Europe, young people are susceptible to messages from religious leaders who swear to a literal interpretation of the Koran. An IS court will therefore, like the Nuremberg process after World War II, have as its overall goal the destruction of the ideology behind the actions that were carried out, and mark that there is also a set of values and morals to be observed in war. Finally, I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6140	Then the representative Christian Tybring-Gedde has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6145	Terrible things happen in war, and after every war it should ideally be a court settlement – and preferably an international court settlement – so that war criminals and terrorists, those who have killed people unjustly, the bombed civilians, etc., can be held accountable. As far as the Syrian conflict is concerned, it would be totally ideal. Not only IS, but also Syrian authorities, Russia, the United States and even Norway were involved in that war and should then have been theoretically affected by such a court settlement, so that those who had committed illegalities in the war were held responsible. We cannot have a selective court settlement, so that only one party of many parties to the war is held accountable. Of course, a war tribunal must include all those who have been involved in the war, including Norwegian forces if there are any suspects from there. There are two things that are fundamentally wrong with the proposals of the Progress Party. Firstly, a war tribunal for the Syrian conflict is totally out of date. It must be established by the UN Security Council, as mentioned by the case-rapporteur, and it is quite unthinkable that the Security Council – including at least two of the parties who have participated in the war, Russia and the United States themselves – will adopt a tribunal when several of the parties themselves were involved in the war. The United States and Russia have been very clear that the international legal order does not apply to them, and they do not want their soldiers to be exposed to this. The other thing that's wrong is the motive of the Progress Party. The party of progress is not really interested in a war tribunal. What they're interested in is having a mechanism so they don't have to bring IS warriors home to Norway. They have even made a government conflict of this kind, so in order to legitimise that government conflict and to prevent it from being prosecuted in Norway, it is necessary to insist that the settlement of justice is done there. But that's not going to happen. So how are we gonna punish war criminals? There's not going to be any international court settlement. Syria and Iraq are not in a position to prosecute these. They do not have courts that are able to do this. There is only one possibility that remains, and it is that suspected war criminals from this war must be brought home to the countries in which they belong. It's been my line all along. I have brought it up in Stortinget several times earlier. Norway must make itself actively available to bring war criminals home to Norway. If we don't, war criminals will go free. In fact, Syria and Iraq will be a haven for war criminals. We only have one option. The UN knows that very well, and Norway has therefore also been asked by the UN to bring suspected war criminals and terrorists home to Norway for settlement in Norway – but it does not want the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6158	Combating impunity for the most serious international crimes is at the heart of Norwegian foreign policy, and it is important to have effective, independent and credible criminal prosecution of the massive crimes committed in Syria and Iraq, both to prevent the repetition or continuation of crimes and to contribute to peace and reconciliation. Criminal proceedings should initially be conducted where the offences have taken place, in independent national courts in line with fundamental principles of legal certainty. There are many benefits to local criminal prosecution, and it is also a fundamental principle in international criminal law that national jurisdictions have the primary responsibility for carrying out criminal prosecution. In the absence of a credible national criminal prosecution, international criminal mechanisms can be absolutely relevant and our position over time has been that the Security Council should refer the situation in Syria to the International Criminal Court. In an earlier initiative on it, Norway received support, but it fell because Russia and China vetoed. The composition of the Council has changed so far since then, but there is nothing in the positions of the two vetoma acts that have changed since then. It is therefore unfortunately not realistic to refer the situation in Iraq to the ICC now. I recognise that, in its position, the Committee also leaves, as the representative Tetzschner had in mind, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government to assess the current possibilities, but in the light of the political situation in the Security Council, there is no real prospect of a Norwegian initiative to set up its own IS court. However, we are constantly working in the Security Council to limit the scope of action to IS, both through the listings of the ISISIL Sanctions Committee and Al Qaida, chaired by Norway, on which the representative Tybring-Gjedde was involved, and we are also involved in discussions outside the Security Council on combating the impunity of IS crimes. Among the models presented, alternatives do not appear to exist without significant disadvantages. As the committee points out, a possible criminal court could be added to the region without that meaning that it is in Syria or Iraq. There is also an option that has been discussed well. It is just that none of the countries in the region have agreed to host such a court. Norway supports several international initiatives to collect and systematise evidence of abuses both in Iraq and Syria. In this way, we contribute to the availability of evidence for future legal proceedings, whether national, regional or international. Finally, I would also like to stress that we are always assessing the scope for various initiatives that can contribute to effective, independent and credible criminal prosecution. It also means that we have ongoing contact and dialogue with neighbouring countries about this. If the situation in the Security Council changes, there will be an action room that Norway will also seek to exploit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6177	The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6182	It's great that there can be a debate on a topic where we basically agree: IS is an abomination and should be persecuted. However, I would like to say that Petter Eide makes this persecution a little more difficult than necessary by saying that either you take everyone, or you don't have an attack point on the IS. The reason why I say that is because the IS has declared itself a state formation, a caliphate with floating territorial boundaries. ISIS crimes have been committed in Syria and Iraq, but not only limited to these countries. Therefore, international humanitarian law experts regard IS as a permanent grouping that can and should be prosecuted just as is the case under the sui generis principle. This means that you can go after ISIS, but there is, after all, no waiver of other groups that can be blamed for similar violations of humanitarian law. So it's not a procedure that excludes anyone, but it shouldn't be exclusive to anyone, and at least it doesn't have to serve as an excuse for not doing what we can to bring IS and their liability to the International Criminal Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6189	I'm not going to delay the meeting, but this is probably one of my very last debates in Stortinget, so at least I'm going to get to take it. Of course, it is true that it is formally possible to prosecute such parties, but it is not politically smart. If we think of a future where we're going to build international war tribunals after wars, they shouldn't be selective. Then all parties who have had a role in the war, and where there may be war crimes on all sides, should be affected by that tribunal. If we don't make such comprehensive solutions, it will be very difficult to establish war tribunals in the future. My main message in my first post was that we need to find a solution to punish the war criminals. There's not going to be any tribunals, there's no one who believes in it. Neither is it the case that Syria and Iraq are able to deal with their criminal prosecution. They do not have an existing legal order that allows them to prosecute. The result is that war criminals in that area go free unless Norway takes an independent responsibility for its own. So there's a group of Northmen down there, both women and men. One of them has already been convicted in Norway, and another is currently in legal proceedings. However, Norway can do much more to bring home those who are still suspected, who are interned in camps in the area, pick them up home and run a trial against them at home in Norway. It is the only possibility we have for war criminals to be prosecuted – there is no other option at present – but it unfortunately rejects the majority of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6200	This is probably my last debate in this session. It's going to be interesting – I don't know where Petter Eide ends up afterwards, but I tipped him off for a good job on the left-hand side of the organization. With regard to the fact that all parties, all sides, in a conflict have to be brought to justice, it would have been an interesting argument to join the Nuremberg process – that the Nordics, Americans and all who helped to free the European continent and get rid of Nazism were to be brought to justice, to see what was being used by wrong methods to do it. With regard to the Progress Party: No, we do not want terrorists to go to Norway, and we see a number of problems with this. You have to have a sentence, you have to have evidence, you have a defense lawyer, you have to have an actor, you have to know the conflict, you have to know what to do with the terrorists when they get out of prison. No, the Progress Party does not want them to go to Norway. They have nothing to do here. When the representative Eide tells them to come home – there is no home for these terrorists in Norway. They don't have a home here. Even if they were to come from here, they don't have a home here. They don't belong to Norway. Once they have been engaged in terrorist activities, they belong to the country in which they have been engaged in terrorist activities. They shall be punished there or in an international court by means of a war process.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6212	Only cards to prevent a possible misunderstanding: it is not that, for example: These IS women, whom they have been called in the press, can be punished for the conditions we are now talking about, i.e. genocide, violations of the rules of war. They come home and answer according to normal Norwegian criminal law because they have joined a terrorist union and countered – let's say – civil criminal proceedings in Norway. In addition, we have experience in previous court settlements in bringing international criminal courts against those responsible for politics, i.e. management. We're talking about two segments. When indirect arguments are argued for repatriation, as SV has also done, partly based on humanitarian conditions, there is a completely different segment we are talking about than the management of international criminals who have proclaimed themselves to be caliphates. We have to keep different things apart, or else we go our way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6219	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6236	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, lines are not given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the time allocated will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6243	I would like to thank the proposers for highlighting an important theme and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The development of artificial intelligence and autonomous technology related to arms and warfare raises new ethical and legal issues. At the same time, it is important to stress that humanitarian law is also fully applicable to new technologies and methods of warfare. It is an overall committee which has as its starting point that all types of weapons which cannot be used in line with humanitarian law must be regarded as prohibited, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also been clear. The Committee doubts whether it is possible to develop fully autonomous weapons technologies capable of operating within the framework of international law, in line with Norway's official foreign policy. The Committee is aware that an international ban on autonomous weapon systems has been discussed in various arenas, including: within the UN system. In 2019, Norway was among several European countries that supported a political declaration calling on States to actively contribute to the development of an effective normative and operational framework for lethal autonomous weapon systems. As the rapporteur, I believe that the position of the Committee on the matter is in line with the eleven leading principles of autonomous weapon systems laid down in the Declaration, to which Norway has joined. The entire Committee agrees that Norway must work nationally and internationally to regulate the development and use of fully and semi-autonomous weapon systems, artificial intelligence or other new weapon technology. The Committee stresses that this must be done without challenging the fundamental principles of the international law of war, including: related to human control, accountability and the requirement to target legitimate targets. Civilian or other persons entitled to protection under humanitarian law shall never be attacked. Like a large majority of the Committee, the Central Party will nevertheless support the vote, which is that the proposal is not adopted. As far as the centre party is concerned, we do not consider it appropriate to take decisions on the matter as it has now been put forward, on the one hand, by reference to the division of labour between the accumulation and government in foreign policy on the other. In the Central Party we notice that the government has worked on the matter in different ways and supported several international initiatives. We trust that the government will continue this work, while we believe that Norway can and should both play a more active role in ensuring the regulation of autonomous weapon systems, and will encourage the government to follow it up in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6258	I'm just going to present the SV's proposal very quickly. We propose that Norway step up its efforts to achieve disarmament and control, with the aim of banning autonomous weapons as well. There are three main reasons for that. One is that, unfortunately, this is the weapon of the future. The technology of developing this kind of weapon is going fast, and we don't think we can manage to have a legal basis that keeps up with technological developments. The second reason is that we have great confidence in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Historically, Norway has been very capable of working with disarmament. We can only remind ourselves of what we have done in terms of banning chemical weapons, class weapons and landmines. So it's a history, an institution and a competence in Norway to be able to handle this in a very good way. We have a advantage here in front of many other countries. The third reason is that unfortunately we are not able to see that the Norwegian authorities are currently proactive enough. It is possible that we have not seen the whole picture – the Minister of Foreign Affairs can explain this – but at least we want to give this fuss in this matter so that we can do it. We're going to lose voting here today, but we're winning a long way on the way, because if you read the comments, it's full support that we have to do what we can to combat these types of weapons. The comments from the Workers' Party and the Centre even say that they support a more active effort from the U.D. in the matter, but that they do not want to support this for reasons of principle. But in both intent and content, we are in complete agreement. So what comes out of this case today is actually a pretty clear signal to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from the Stortinget – no matter what the vote will be – that a broad majority in Stortinget wants us to have an active effort in Norway for this. Of course, we also take the touching consensus between the three red-green parties on this with us into any future government. With that, I'll take up SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6275	The representative Petter Eide has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6280	I'm glad there's a broad majority in the Great Britain to keep the government doing what the government does. We participate in the intergovernmental expert group on issues related to the emergence of deadly autonomous weapon systems. That's where we've been very active in the expert group. It has been delayed due to covid-19, unfortunately, as so much other international work now. There's a meeting planned this June, but it's uncertain whether it's going to go as planned, just because of the pandemic. We have also supported the Alliance for Multilateralism on Lethal Autonomous Weapons Systems, which is a German-French initiative with eleven guiding principles that we fully support, and which I have explained in my letter to the Stortinget, so I do not repeat them here. There is already a broad international consensus that meaningful human control is a prerequisite for the use of a weapon system in accordance with humanitarian law. Today, it is not known that a technological level has been reached that allows weapons systems to be fully autonomous, but technological developments are moving rapidly, and it is possible to connect systems and technologies in the near future. There is also a broad consensus that the current rules of international humanitarian law will also apply in full through the use of autonomous weapon systems. To put it another way: if they cannot be used in humanitarian law, they are prohibited. We are contributing to international efforts to ensure the safe and ethically sound development of autonomous weapon systems and want to arrive at a well-functioning regulatory framework that can ensure just the sense of control. The term ‘autonomous weapon systems’ is very broad. It creates different associations, and autonomy also comes in different degrees and shapes. Nor is it a uniform group or an internationally accepted definition. Today autonomy in weapon systems can also have some desired effects. Two of them are that it can reduce the chances of civilian targets being hit, and that it can increase the protection of the soldier. The representative proposal has also called for restrictions to be imposed on the involvement of the Norwegian defence industry in the development of autonomous weapon systems. It is a practice that would be very demanding to regulate, among other things. because the distinction between civil and military technologies in autonomous areas is very fluid. I can mention artificial intelligence and large-scale data processing as two of them, which are also used in this context. Contributing to the development of new technologies is one thing; it's the very use of the technology we have to help regulate. Norway is actively engaged in international work. I would like to use the opportunity – even if the hall is not so full – to also express my thanks for the close cooperation with the Committee during the current period. As far as I know, this committee does not have any more debates in this session, and that is why I am also grateful for good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6301	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-09.ana.ud452e6316	There is no record available. This way, the map is ready for processing today. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
