ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e164	The President will propose that the public gallery be closed during today's meeting, and it is deemed to be adopted. The representative, Tore Hagebakken, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today, and considers it to be adopted. The President will propose Jon Georg Dale. Other proposals are not available, and Jon Georg Dale is unanimously elected president of today's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e184	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1–9 will be treated as a whole. The cases are the second processing of laws and relate to legislative acts 106–114.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e292	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e308	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e315	This case concerns the law on flagging the public buildings of the municipality, i.e. a law that we have had for a long time in Norway, which regulates what the public community buildings should have of rules when it comes to the flag of which one can lift in connection with them. The initiative that we have a case in the anniversary year of the Norwegian flag, the 200th anniversary, took the government by making a proposition, a bill change that they first had on their ears, and that has created an enormous commitment. Some municipalities want to soften this law, while most people who have shared in the government's hearing, and the popular commitment, are very clear that one should have a conservative hold when it comes to flagging public buildings that are to represent us all. I would like to believe that the parties which have positions other than the Progress Party here will do their best for their own vision. So I'm not going to try to talk on behalf of them, but rather use my post to say why the Progress Party thinks we should be careful about watering out that law in the anniversary year, and why we shouldn't go to make promises that all Norwegian municipalities can have their own flag policy and can have local debates about which flag to use the public flag rods. I thought it was surprising that the Progress Party was alone. When you look outside, you see what kind of party you have in Norway, there's a lot of conservative parties that are careful to change those types of things that arouse feelings, which make sense when it comes to flag politics. One might think that the conservative right would think like us here, that one should be careful to make such changes. The central party should also believe that it might have taken such a position, and at least the Christian People's Party, which has a lot of dedicated members who are now dismayed that the party they are voting to make this change in law. For the Progress Party, it's not about us being opponents of the fact that one should mark different things, but we don't think the public flag bars are the arenas that should be watered out, and where one should make markings that not all the inhabitants will feel is right and will feel like they are. We think it's enough that the public flag rods have flagged the municipality or the Norwegian flag, and that a rather can use flag bars in squares, along streets and other places to mark different events. We think it might be a dangerous direction to go in if local politicians can make their own priorities, run their own flag policies, and thus highlight things that not all the inhabitants of a municipality will feel like they are. Therefore, a conservative starting point was that we leave that law as he is, so that something at least represents everyone, simply the flag of the municipality and the Norwegian flag, and that we allow markings to use other flag bars.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e328	Thank you to the President-in-Office. Like the other parties, apart from the Advance Party, the Workers' Party believes that this is a natural extension of the possibilities of municipalities to use their own flag bars when they think it makes sense. For once, I would almost say, the government makes a good proposal that we support. I have to say that I do not really understand the argument from the Progress Party that the municipalities, the municipal authorities, the city councils, should not be able to decide for themselves which flags they will use on different occasions on their flagposts. I think it's a very exaggerated fear that city councillors and local councillors in different municipalities will go bananas and hang the flag of other countries without purpose and meaning. I actually don't think that's going to happen. On the contrary, I think this will be used with great reason. Several municipalities have been asked to mark different local, regional or national brand days or events, and I think these flag rods are actually empty almost year round. They have to be able to be used for something reasonable. We trust that local democracy and local politicians will handle this in a good way. I do not fully understand the argument that it should be dangerous for local politicians to be allowed to decide on the use of their own flags. We support the government's proposals in the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e341	This matter concerns something that the Right believes is a natural extension of the local authorities' operating space for flagging. That's the way, as the previous speaker said, this is probably more about the use of the flag rods than about the use of the flag. The public flag days, the natural flag days of the national flag, will be followed, and I don't think there's any reason to believe that the Norwegian flag or the Sami flag will come out worse because if the municipalities will be able to use their flag rods on some occasion as they think it's proper. We strengthen local democracy and make it easier to meet local needs at special events of general interest. That's what this is about. The municipalities themselves wanted to have such an arrangement. At least many municipalities have. This is how we strengthen local democracy by what tasks we actually add to it, and this is a pretty good example of something that should be managed locally, and that would otherwise be seen as unnecessarily square. Of course, we support the government's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e350	The proposal implies that municipalities and county councils will have more room for action to choose flags other than Norwegian and Sami in the buildings of municipalities and counties. The Ministry also uses the term "flag" for football flags, rainbow flags, etc., which, according to the teaching of flag flags, are ranked as tabs, and this applies only to "in connection with arrangement, marking or marking of public interest". The condition that the arrangement must be related to the building to which it is flagged has been removed. The Central Party agrees that the Norwegian flag acts as a pool for all citizens regardless of background and that the Norwegian flag is sovereign in its symbolic value in Norway. Of course, the Norwegian flag shall remain on municipal flag bars on official flag days. We have received many enquiries on this matter. It appears that many are concerned that the Rosenborg flag or rainbow flag will hang up 365 days a year and that there will be other flags on those flags on 17 May. Of course it's not like that. There is only one possibility for the municipality for events and public-interest markers they can use other flags on the municipal flag bar. The centre party considers this to be a natural extension of the local authority's operating room to take care of local interests when there are current markers in each municipality. The centre party believes that today's legislation appears to be unnecessary rigidity, and we have noticed that there are many municipalities that want such a decoration. The central party will strengthen local self-government, and we therefore support the proposal. The State should not regulate the local self-government in detail unless there are overriding national considerations that require the setting aside of local self-government. The amendment to the flag law is definitely not such a case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e361	We in SV were very happy when this law came. I would like to say a thousand thanks to the government for presenting this bill change, and I would like to say to the Progress Party: Don't be afraid that local politicians will find themselves hanging up an entirely inappropriate flag, or hanging anything other than the Norwegian flag on 17 May, etc. It's not going to happen. Don't be so afraid of what we're all so happy about, the Norwegian flag and the Sami flag – it's no less worth lifting up the rainbow flag when there's an event for gays and lesbians in the municipality. I hear the President-in-Office talking about popular commitment. Yes, it has been a very strong popular commitment to be allowed to lift e.g. the rainbow flag and mark it. And why do we do that? Well, just to strengthen cohesion across many peoples, don't strengthen those who will exclude. Cohesion is about including more, not excluding, and it's very important that we take care of it, because we know how hard such exclusion has hit a lot of people. I don't think I'm very wrong if I say that it's the rainbow flag that's provoked a lot, and I think we should all say to them either: this is nothing to be afraid of – love is nothing to be afraid of. I think we can lift the flag instead. I am very pleased that Norwegian municipalities now have the opportunity to do this, linked to events taking place in the municipality. I think this is good. There's no wild dropping in any way. I also believe that local discussions around this can be good discussions, which can involve people locally as well, and get up debates on important issues. And I hope that in some of the municipalities where I come from, we will also lift the flag of some national minorities when they have their brand days. I really hope so, because it's time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e370	We have something on the table as rare as a symbol thing, but an important symbol thing. Flags are symbols, and the symbol binds or splits, depending on the eyes that see. In the setting we give to know our vision. The Christian People's Party is of the primary opinion that the municipalities and county councils' official flagposts in relation to town halls and other municipal buildings are to be used only for the sole flag of the Norwegian, Sami and municipality/district. We therefore agree with the case rapporteur, who stresses that the Norwegian flag acts as a collective force for all citizens regardless of background, affiliation or political opinions. It is important that public buildings are neutral and respond to good and traditional flag rules. The Nordics have a respect for flags and flags, and it is important for many to take care of this culture. So someone would say that this is about resistance to the pride flag and the FRI movement. It doesn't. In fact, there is a pressure on the use of the pride flag that has led to these changes, but for us it is not about a phobia against this. For us, it is about the principle of keeping the pooling and neutral around the use of official flag bars in official buildings. This principle position is the same regardless of whether it is the speed movement, the symbol of a football tournament or a choir festival or the pride flag. I believe that it should be possible to fly with other flags and banners from the municipalities' other flag rods, in bridges and squares etc. It would have taken into account both the collective importance of flags for people and the concern for the wish to mark brand days. Of course, that would be quite right. We're doing this time the a little painful exercise to argue against a proposition, but vote for it, and even choose to flag it loud and clear. It's the weight of a government party in life. Something else would give you unmanageable situations. If we have lost one thing in government, it is often wise not to flag it too clearly, literally, but here we do. We are against this amendment, and we would rather that the previous decoration, which opens up the flag with other flags and symbols, provided that there was a relevant arrangement in the building, had not happened. But the majority would do it differently, and so would now. I've let myself tell you that in time the law came after someone wanted to flag the red Communist flag in front of the City Hall somewhere in the Kingdom. At that time it was thought that it was wise to have common national rules for this. That was wise thinking. I am usually a hot defender of local self-government, but here I believe we should have common rules. So we're going to assume that the law change is actually very small. In reality, it boils down to the fact that municipalities can now fly with other flags without holding a separate event in the town hall or another building. Up until now, a coffee cup could be served to the Organisational Committee for an event at the rapporteur's office, and the criterion of the law in force was met. As I said, we would have preferred to vote against it, but in loyalty we vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e385	The government will give municipalities and county councils a slightly larger space for action to choose which flags they will flag from their buildings, as current regulation is not flexible for municipalities. Today, the general rule is that Norwegian municipalities can freely flag the Norwegian flag, the Sami flag or county and municipality flags from their buildings. From stand-alone flag bars, e.g. in squares, bridges and places, municipalities are now also free to use other flags. However, if the municipalities wish to flag other flags of their buildings, they are required to do so in connection with sporting, cultural and similar events of general interest and to organise an event in the building from which they are being flagged. Several municipalities have expressed the desire to flag other flags of their buildings. For example, some municipalities want to celebrate by flagging the rainbow flag, while others want to flag the UN flag on the occasion of the UN day. Other municipalities again want to celebrate the local football team by flagging with their flag. The Government proposes to allow municipalities to fly other flags in such cases, without at the same time having to hold an event in the building from which it is being flagged. The last year has shown that it will not be possible to hold events, and today’s legislation appears to be less flexible. In order to give the municipalities a slightly larger space of action, we propose that the requirement to have an arrangement in the building from which it is being flagged should be deleted. In addition, we propose that flagging by other flags of municipal buildings should be permitted by arrangement, marking or marking of public interest. It was supposed to rule out the Communist flag. This is a moderate change that gives a slightly larger space for action to the municipalities, while access to flags with other flags is still regulated. The general rule shall continue to be that municipalities may flag the Norwegian flag, the Sami flag and the local or county flag. The possibility of flagging with other flags will remain regulated and limited. In ‘general interest’, there is a restriction on the non-flagging of events, markings or markings showing positions contrary to Norwegian legislation or to the human rights conventions that Norway has committed itself to comply with. Corresponding restrictions shall also apply to which flags may be flagged. When the proposal was being consulted, the matter led to a great deal of commitment. Many individuals submitted hearings, and many of those engaged, feared that the Norwegian flag would be of no significance if the proposal went through. I disagree. Some also interpreted the proposal as an attack on the Norwegian flag. It's far from our intention. Of course, the Norwegian flag shall continue to be used from Norwegian town halls and other municipal buildings in the future and shall not be displaced by other flags. The proposal will not limit the possibility for municipalities to flag with the Norwegian or Sami flag or with their own local or county flag. The proposal is intended only to give municipalities a slightly larger space for action by providing municipalities, for example: would be able to use other flags during events, markings and public-interest markings, without the requirement to hold a physical event in the building itself from which it is being flagged. So this is a moderate proposal that I think will be well received in Norwegian municipalities, and that shows that we have confidence in local self-government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e404	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e424	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e442	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e449	First, I would like to thank the proposer for a very important proposal. To discuss how we're going to use the outdoors so that they'll be good for children and young people and for everyone, I think a lot of people have neglected in the municipalities when we've made our own development plans. Sometimes you've got this in a very good way, because it's actually possible to make the outdoors both humane and child-friendly and youth-friendly, and it's absolutely necessary that we keep doing it. That is why I think this proposal for a representative was a good contribution to it. Also cities can be child friendly, we've seen that when cities have taken hold of and improved their outdoor areas. What we politicians are responsible for is how schools and kindergartens are built, so that they have areas, including outdoor areas, that are suitable for children of different ages, that can stimulate activity, play and social interaction, and that they are good and safe, and that they are, for example, are not full of toxic plastic substances. I'm a post-war child, and then plastic was an innovation, and it was put in everything. Gradually, we've learned that much of this actually hurts both people and the environment. This means that there are changes that need to be made to ensure that these areas neither permeate nature nor harm our children. There are a lot of suggestions in the case, so I can't go into everyone, but I want to take this to heart with schools and kindergartens and outdoors. SV suggests that you attach what is currently the guide for the outdoor areas – it is simply because a regulation is in line with a law, that is, imposes greater requirements – so that the outdoor areas become large and good enough. We believe that we also need an action plan for this upgrade, and that we need state grant schemes to achieve this. And, not least, government grant schemes are needed for schools and outdoor areas to be universally designed. There's really a long way left for those outdoor areas to be good for everyone. In addition to this, there are several proposals here. This kind of nature, which is very important to take care of. Where they do it, it works incredibly well. Then I would like to address the suggestions we have in the vote. In addition, SV will vote in favour of the proposal No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e462	The representative Karin Andersen then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e467	There is a need to ensure that cities are more developed on the premises of children. This means that more of the space should be given priority to green lungs, playgrounds and car-free areas that promote child-friendly and safe breeding environments. Good outdoor areas in schools and kindergartens are important for facilitating play and activity, but also for the use of outdoor areas in educational activities. The red-green government set up an interest-rate compensation scheme in which municipalities throughout the country were given the opportunity to upgrade, among other things. the outing of schools. The government of Solberg has chosen to terminate this scheme. When the government at the same time gives municipalities poor financial conditions and new tasks without funding, it is difficult for many municipalities to prioritize outdoor areas and construction for schools and kindergartens. That's what kids pay the price for. Good outdoor areas can be important meeting places for children and young people even after closure and should be a joy to the rest of the population. A State support scheme should be established for municipalities for the upgrading and extension of outdoor areas in schools and kindergartens, with the aim of creating greener, safer and more varied year-round facilities for children in all age groups. Differences in Norway are increasing. Children and young people are hit particularly hard. Free lending of sports equipment and outdoor equipment is an important contribution to bringing everyone into action and reducing social disparities, and the model of BUA is also environmentally friendly. That is why we are asking the government today to strengthen lending centres to ensure that all children and young people have access to equipment for sports and leisure activities regardless of the income of their parents and where they live in their country. There is a need to introduce a near-natural law that ensures urban and natural areas around the big cities and provides better protection for the small scale, short-distance nature of people's neighbourhoods, the green lungs of the big cities and the uninhabited part of the coastal zone of cities and towns. We will stop the wallpaper by nature. It is possible to build smarter, plan better, and make wiser choices to preserve the most vulnerable nature. It is the municipalities that manage the nature that is closest to people, and they must be given greater responsibility to preserve nature as a valuable Community asset. With this, I will address the proposals of the Workers' Party together with the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e482	The representative Siri Gassemyr Staalese has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e487	We are all concerned that children should have good growing-up conditions, whether they grow up in cities, towns or districts. This proposal addresses important issues, but also raises some challenges. Many of the proposals have significant budgetary implications. Other proposals are a municipal matter and some of the proposals can be implemented today or implemented in full or in part already. Every four years, national expectations for regional and municipal planning are published by the State. It points to the concerns and interests that local authorities must take in their planning, including for outpatient areas for children and young people. The right is concerned that municipalities should have both responsibility and room for action in order to develop good communities and good housing areas, which ensure good architecture and which stimulate physical activity and a good environment that contributes to health and well-being. It is not possible within the framework of one post here to comment on all of the 20 proposals presented in this case, but I would like to comment on some of the proposals on outdoor areas for kindergartens and schools. There is a demand, among other things. an action plan for upgrading and a work environment law for children requiring all schools and kindergartens outdoors, including size, quality, content, sunlight, air quality, etc. Children shall have a kindergarten and a day-to-day school with rooms for safe development, play and learning. The Regulation on environmental health protection is laid down in kindergartens and schools. Guides provide clear recommendations on outdoor areas for kindergartens. It is clarified that minimum dimensions must be at least six times the inside area, i.e. 24 m 2 per child over three years of age and 33 m 2 for children under three years of age. In the school area, the general recommendations on the minimum net area per student of 50 m 2 are adjusted according to school size and location. For new schools, a total minimum area has been recommended. The representative proposal also asks the government to provide a national statistics on the size, quality and content of the outlying areas for schools and kindergartens. It's resource-intensive, and in our view, the utility here has to be balanced against the cost. Finally, the right is concerned that all children and young people should be given the opportunity to participate in leisure activities, and we refer to the strengthening of the national grant scheme to include children and young people, managed by Bufdir, and not least to the pilot scheme with a free card, which we believe will provide good new opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e511	Providing good growth conditions for children and young people is one of the most important tasks in our society. Kindergartens and schools shall be based on fundamental respect for the self-esteem of childhood and contribute to meaningful growth. It must apply irrespective of the level of function, place of residence and background of the child, social, cultural or ethnic. The central party therefore considers, inter alia, that: universal design of outdoor areas is an important principle which ensures that outdoor areas can be used by all. I will comment on some of the proposals, briefly: the Central Party believes that the intention of the proposal on leisure cards and loan centres is good, and we support these intentions. At the same time, the costs of these proposals must be investigated before major enlargements are adopted. We support urban and urban development that facilitates travel by public transport, corridors and bicycles. On the other hand, we believe that a law of a ten-minute principle in the purpose paragraph of the Planning and Building Act does not take into account the diversified and diverse country we have. For many, going or cycling to work is not feasible, and a climate-friendly and environmentally friendly transport network has to be established in areas where this is possible, while taking into account those that will also depend in the future on travelling longer than ten minutes to seek out the services they need. Let me underline: the Planning and Building Act applies to everyone, regardless of what the design looks like around the country. We believe that in the question of phase-out of rubber and plastic tyres in all schools, kindergartens and playgrounds, it is the municipalities, sports teams and other actors that are best placed to assess this issue on the basis of local circumstances. It is those who are responsible for the operation of these offers and know the local conditions best. On the other hand, we support the intention, but this must be done through interaction and not by a state order. I feel that many around are concerned about this issue, and that there are many places working locally to replace materials that have been used on children's outdoors, to more nature-based materials, based on the local conditions in place. The Centre Party considers that it is not appropriate to require municipalities to draw up a green account for the cities. Many municipalities, on the other hand, keep a good overview of their green areas, and I assume that the municipalities develop and maintain green areas without requiring a green account, which is proposed. The centre also supports ensuring access for all to the outdoor areas of schools and kindergartens, but adds, for example: the reason that not all playstatives and others. may be universally designed. So it's about access to the area, because the playstables can't necessarily be universally designed if we want to secure motor development for those who have the opportunity. The physical environment of children in school and kindergarten is to be protected by the Training Act and the Kindergarten Act, and we do not think it appropriate to establish a separate law for this. With that, I will deal with the proposals that the Central Party has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e530	The representative willfred Nordlund then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e535	These are many good proposals and intentions in the Green Party's draft representative. I would like to underline both many and good. It is a kind of natural law here that opposition representatives are not adopted, and when there are many good proposals, it is strengthened. But we have a great sense that this is also being put on the agenda here. It's an engagement of the Christian People's Party and the Green Party, which the government also shares. To start with my main objection: Many of the proposals go far into what is, and should be, the responsibility of the municipalities. That's not all that's been tricked, to be adopted by the Stortinget. The division of labour in the Kingdom places responsibility for the everyday environment for a large part of the municipalities, and that makes sense. Then, as big-time politicians, we can work very actively to make this possible. Then I have noticed with interest the professional debate that is taking place on the bottom cover of kindergartens and schools, and the effects on the child's immune system and on the healthy and natural development of skills. It's a problem we're going to take seriously. As a society, we may have gone too far in protecting our children from scrubbing when they fall, that we have done them a bear service. As a nation, we should have a conversation about this, but we are of the opinion that a balance of differing interests in the choice of cover should be carried out naturally by school owners and kindergarten owners. The Green Party is committed to making the leisure card a fully developed scheme for all children and young people in Norway. I can assure you that this is also the Christian People's Party. The aim of the leisure card scheme is to allow more children and young people aged 6 to 18 to participate in recreational activities. This is one of the most important breakthroughs the Christian People's Party had in the Granavolden platform, and there is a pilot project in several municipalities. These should be evaluated to provide a good basis for decision-making on the implementation of the scheme across the country. We hope that this system will lead to the participation of all children and young people in leisure activities, even if they come from a home with poor advice. Outdoor activities among children and young people must be combated. It's one of the most important joint investments we as a society can make, and I'm glad that several share that assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e548	Half a million children grow up in Norwegian cities, children from thousands of different families and different neighborhoods. Some have better assumptions for a good growth than others have. In an exclusive home at Grefsen, a boy boy gathers in the basement room on Fridays for gaming and pizza. So does the boy boy on Mortensrud. Unlike the guys at the Grefsen, the gang at Mortensrud doesn't meet in the basement room at one of them, but at the leisure club. For the families live in crowded housing blocks. If the friends are to be taken, it has to be done outside the home, in a place that is both safe and accessible irrespective of the parent’s economy. It is our prime task to ensure that both children and young people have good and equivalent growth conditions. That is why today we are making 14 proposals on how we will strengthen children and young people's right to a well-growth environment in kindergarten, school and leisure. In particular, I would like to draw up the proposal on the working environment of children. Today, we have strict requirements for the size of buckets in new office buildings, for how much space a salmon should have in a farm or for how wide a parking space must be. But we don't set minimum standards on the size of children's outdoors in school and kindergarten, the place where children spend the most time outside the home, and which should be the leading playground for play and learning. It tells a lot about who wins and who loses in the fight for the place in our cities. Children's and young people's growing-up environment is the best indicator we have of how well society works. But statistics tell us that Norwegian children play less outdoors and are less active now than before. There are many reasons for this. But when the kindergartens in the cities have gotten less and less outdoors in recent years and our natural play areas are replaced by rubber and plastic, and so we have weakened some basic prerequisites for children's ability to play and play. I hope that today we can take children and young people's working days in schools and kindergartens as seriously as our own adult workplace, and that as adults we create the basement room that all children and young people need in leisure, regardless of who they are, and where they grow up. I thank the parties in the Committee for a seemingly good dialogue on this, even though I have not been part of it, and see that there is a great deal of commitment in the matter. With this, I am addressing the proposal of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e566	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e571	The government is concerned that all cities and towns should be good places to live and live in. The vast majority of children in Norway have good reproductive environments, with access to good outdoor areas. We are also concerned that the population growth in cities and agglomerations occurs primarily through densification and transformation. At the same time, the government is clear that urban development should not make cities and agglomerations more vulnerable to climate change, cause children and young people's growth environment to deteriorate, or reduce the population's access to green areas. This is also evident in national expectations of regional and municipal planning. It is the municipalities that have the primary responsibility to balance different considerations in their planning. The Planning and Building Act gives municipalities the opportunity to make their own premises about the environment of their children. That's good, because it's the individual municipality that knows its communities best. By means of planning and development, municipalities have both responsibility and scope for developing good communities and residential areas that stimulate physical activity in an environment that contributes to good health. Parks and urban spaces, streets and green areas, trees for recreation and nature experiences are all important for good urban and urban habitats. The government is concerned that kindergartens and schools should provide rooms for safe play and learning for all. This too is the responsibility of the municipalities. Placing kindergartens and schools so that they have access to green areas provides an important complement to the schoolyard and kindergarten's own outdoor areas. Although most children in Norway have good growing-up conditions, children and young people also face challenges. The country cooperates with several municipalities on specific efforts in some metropolitan areas where the concentration of complex living conditions challenges is particularly high. These site initiatives have a special focus on children and the growing environment of young people. In December 2020, the government received the report of the Urban and Living Sciences Committee, NOU 2020:16, The Year of Life in Cities – Good Communities for All. It contains many suggestions, including: grants to good and safe housing and breeding environments. The Government will review this proposal together with the other proposals in the NOU. It may seem that the government has more faith in municipal autonomy than the representative Stoknes. Only in 2021 has the government cut off about 50 million. for children’s and young people’s actions in larger urban communities. A large proportion of these funds go to municipalities, so that they can put in place the right measures where they are most needed to improve children and young people's outdoors and the growing-up environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e586	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e591	I was a little unsure if I was going to make a new post, but maybe the council wants the last one, so we don't get a new round with it. I note that the Council of State, as part of the previous speakers, is also very busy talking about children and young people's growing-up conditions, with the emphasis on cities and towns only. It becomes a little special when we know that there are growing up children in parts of the country that cannot necessarily be defined as either city or town. That's what the Center Party has been trying to comment on in the comments, that this is about universal arrangements, completely independent of the geographical area in which you live, and what the housing structure and business look like. But I feel that the Council of State places emphasis on all cities and towns, as he said in his post – in so far as what previous representatives have said. What I'm really asking is, when the Council of State also refers to the government's most concerned about this happening through the densification and transformation of cities and cities, is: what do you really do with your own district minister saying that you have to ensure good growth conditions throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e600	It's not the government that decides where to live in this country. In the last few years at least there has been growth in the population of some cities and towns, which has made it necessary to develop those places further. Then, in national expectations, we demand that it be based mainly on densification and transformation, so as to develop the city from within and out. I think that makes sense. I fully agree with the representative that all children, regardless of where they live, whether they live in a town, town or village, should of course have good growing-up conditions. I also believe the representative and I can find each other in that we are probably both concerned that the municipalities have the primary responsibility for how to further develop this. For example, setting a legal norm here on how outdoor areas should be as different as a big city and a small community makes little sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e607	I thank you for the answer, and it is probably quite right that the Council of State and the undersigned can find each other in that we have to be careful about setting standards, etc. That is also the context we are going to discuss later, for example. this with state planning guidelines in a matter in a few weeks. But what really becomes the question is: Are you observant enough about the issue of children’s and young people’s growing-up conditions – to facilitate the regulation that Norway actually looks different, and that you have to take local considerations and give the opportunity that the Council of State now makes it visible that it is involved, to the municipalities? Because that's what's really the question. Many of our local politicians feel that this is not the case. Does the Government consider that the government has done enough in this area, giving local action room to make good local adjustments?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e612	I am concerned that municipalities should have the freedom of action and the freedom to put in place the necessary measures to give children good growth conditions, regardless of whether there is a city, a smaller place or a community in the districts. So we're completely in agreement about this. That's one of the reasons why we don't go into the proposals that lie here, because there's a lot of detail management on some points. The intention is good, confident. However, the detailed management of e.g. the number of square metres of open space available does not allow a municipality to take account of local conditions. If you have a kindergarten that is close to a large forest, you might need a little bit more effective outdoor space than if you don't have it. So you have to take that into account. Just because the country is long-term, the municipalities have a great responsibility – because there are so different assumptions around them. That's the way it should still be.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e617	Governments are concerned that he thinks there is a lot of detail in this proposal and in the vote. But then I would like to ask about the point that is the committee's setting, which, unfortunately, may not be adopted either, namely that we need to ensure that the regulation and control of outdoor areas in schools and kindergartens ensures that they are universally designed. So it's a principle that the Storing has adopted and that we've had for quite a number of years now, and we know that this is actually not the case in many places. That means that many children with disabilities don't really have an offer on their outdoors at their school, and we know a lot about how it excludes children from being in the game. What is the reason why the Council of State and the Government parties do not believe that there should be legislation and control so that these requirements are actually met?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e622	Fortunately, there has been a great deal of positive in terms of universal design, as a result of the fact that both national authorities, the Stortinget and the municipalities have done an important job to ensure that schools and other public buildings are universally designed. I believe that it is obvious that we should facilitate everyone's participation in games and activities, including in schools and outdoors, but it is not said that any toy should be universally designed. I think the representative and I are in complete agreement on that. There are already rules for universal design and a responsibility of the municipalities to follow up their follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e627	Yes, there are rules for that, both for the outdoors and for the schools. Still, we know that there's a lot left. I think the Council of State has a lot to do with the situation when it comes to the situation in that area. Something called Roadmap for universally designed secondary school 2030, for how schools should be universally designed, and we have a very long way to go. Then the first question is whether the Council of State believes this is also a purely municipal responsibility. We know that this is going to cost a lot. Is it not also a responsibility for government and big business to ensure that there is actually a framework to meet the important objectives that I believe we agree on? But we are so incredibly patient in terms of such important principles that all children should actually be able to both be in the same school and use the same outdoor area – if not absolutely all the facilities, be included. Is the Council of State not aware of the 2030 road map?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e634	My point was not that we're in the goal, but that it's been a positive development, and we're going to enjoy that. Then, of course, we have to keep working to make sure that everyone can participate in the same line, even where it means that you have to do more on universal design. That's an important point. The municipalities have a great responsibility, and the representative himself made an important contribution here earlier today on the flag law, where she said we should not be afraid to give the local politicians responsibility. Nevertheless, she addresses a number of proposals throughout this matter that are about depriving local politicians of responsibility, and detailing what to do, and how to do so. I don't think that's a good idea. I think we should hold onto local self-government and just trust, as the representative himself had in mind, that local politicians have good conditions to make good choices locally based on their situation. Universal design is important, regardless of which municipality we're talking about, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e642	I'm a little shocked that the Council of State doesn't see the difference between what is required of a municipality to lift a flag, and what is required of a municipality to make society universally designed – and doesn't see the difference between the rights of children and young people, who are to have an equivalent school offer, and to be able to decide locally. Does the Council of State really think that municipalities should be able to take this away and leave it in the waiting box for even more decades? Another thing that I know is that the Council of State has a commitment to is nature and the environment. In this setting, some of us believe that we should have arrangements that ensure closeness to nature, which the Council of State had in mind in its contribution. So if this kind of neighbourhood is being built up, it's going to be lost. Therefore, it is necessary to ensure these areas better than is currently done. If so, how does the Council of State think it will happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e649	Again, according to the Law on Planning and Building, municipalities have both the responsibility and the freedom to make important choices in terms of taking care of nature in the local environment. I think it's absolutely vital that we do that. It is important that municipalities facilitate this and have it in mind when facilitating new urban and urban development. I feel that the municipalities are quite good at that. Here in this city, for example, quite many years ago a rather planned run began to open up rivers and streams and make them available to the population and not least take care of nature near where people live. I think that's important. But I trust that the municipalities can manage this for themselves, and we see many good examples of them doing so. As far as universal design is concerned, I am quite sure that the municipalities must have a financial framework that will enable them to solve their tasks in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e656	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e663	I need to say a few words about the proposal for a law on nature. This is because we have seen developments – that areas are being built up, and that there are areas that are important close to nature for children and young people, and not least for the whole population. The problem is that when nature is built, it's kind of lost. That's the way it is with the beach zone, that's the way it is with the all-man rights. We have said in a lot of different areas that here we actually need to put in place some measures to ensure what is left, and that is what this proposal is all about – that we need to create some framework at national level that is stricter than what they are today, because we are building up a bit by bit – bit by bit. There are quantities of reports showing. I am absolutely sure that the Council of State is familiar with them, for we have discussed them when we have had other issues that have been involved, for example. the law on planning and construction and the loss of nature and natural diversity. So to this thing with the outdoor areas of schools and kindergartens. Today it's a supervisor. These are the rules of the supervisor we think should be in a regulation, which is more binding than a supervisor. It is not that the problem arises when a kindergarten is built in the vicinity of a forest. It's because you build kindergartens and schools that have too small outdoor areas, and because you don't have any instruments to make sure you get expanded where there can be opportunities for it. There's got to be a little bit more space for our kids in the cities and also in other neighbourhoods, because it's being built down, and it's not being child-friendly and human-friendly enough. Finally, a small comment on the leisure card scheme. I've been an avid champion of it from it. What I don't like about the government is that you should sit and pick out what these kids are going to do. You get a card you can use on the football or on the woodpecker or things like that. Young people who need this card will be allowed to decide for themselves which leisure activities to attend, just like other kids. It is incredibly important that we now have that principle together. It's not like we know the best for these kids, what they care about, and it's perhaps even more important that these kids get to grab their talents where they feel at home, where they want to be and evolve, and that they get to decide for themselves. An important part of childhood and youth life is to be able to make these decisions as they mature.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e674	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e691	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e698	The choice and abuse of the elderly is currently taking place to an extent that makes it a social problem. National human rights institutions report from 2014 documented care failures and abuses that have led to deaths, sexual exploitation, gross coercion and negligeeing. Furthermore, a widespread practice was documented that violates the right to control one’s own body and own health, such as illegal coercion and coercive medicine. The survey of elderly elected by the evening post from 2018 showed that at least 13 000 elective episodes occurred in Norwegian hospitals in 2018. A national survey of the power of hospitals in 2019 revealed an alarmingly high level of violence and psychological abuse by caregivers against residents. It is well known that special people with dementia have the right risk of being subjected to violence and assault than the population otherwise. Both in 2015 and 2018, the Stortinge has discussed proposals for a survey of the human rights situation in Norwegian hospitals, but it did not get any more. In this setting, it is a joint committee which supports the proposal to ask the Government to establish national guidelines for the investigation and handling of the cases of the elderly, and a proposal to ‘establish the obligation to notify the supervisory authorities when there is reason to believe that the elderly are subject to violence and abuse’. The Committee emphasises that patients’ health care providers have clear patient rights, and that prevention and detection of violence and the need for older people to ensure worthy care is a responsibility for the management of the traineeship. The Committee refers to the regulation on the rental and quality improvement of the health and care services in place and to the government’s plan for recruitment, competence and professional development, called the Competence Lift 2025. In particular, the Committee points to the need for ethical empowerment in municipalities to increase the knowledge of health ethics in services. From 1 July 2019, the notification scheme of the State Health Authority was extended to cover all health companies, including municipalities. Health legislation has been adjusted so that it is now clear in the law that municipalities are required to pay particular attention to the fact that patients and users may be exposed to or at risk of being subjected to selected or sexual abuse. In the event of an incurrence, the Zenterpartie is not in a notice on the obligation to notify, where it is referred to the model in Sweden, which we were supposed to be in. The Committee’s members from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV point to the right-hand basic staff and more professionals at work, who can give more time for care and defence of all residents, and in the configuration a proposal for a mandatory step-up plan for better staffing in the care of the elderly. With this, I will deal with the suggestions that the Center Party is making.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e721	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e726	This is a topic we've been discussing several times during this ageing period, and it makes the impression that we're hearing the stories we're reading in the Norwegian elderly care media. There's violence and abuse, between patients and residents in institutions. It may be from relatives, or it may be from employees. And there may be employees who are subjected to violence in their job. All of this makes an impression. All of this we need to take a political responsibility to reduce. This is done by the Workers' Party, together with the other red-green parties, by proposing an obliging escalation plan for better staffing in the care of the elderly. The entire Committee has agreed on the proposals that we need to establish national guidelines for the investigation and handling of acts of violence of the elderly and the proposal to establish a notification obligation to the supervisory authorities where there is reason to believe that older people are subject to violence and abuse. But you're just getting this far with demands. You don't get to the goal if you're just pointing at those who're going to do the job, without making sure they get enough resources to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e733	Today, we are discussing a proposal from the Progress Party on national guidelines and reporting obligations in the care of the elderly, in order to prevent violence and abuse against the elderly. For the Progress Party, it is important that no elderly people in our country should feel afraid of being subjected to violence and abuse, but unfortunately it is older people who experience this, and unfortunately there is also little attention to this problem. Older people suffer because violence is not prevented or stopped. Studies have revealed that domestic elderly people in particular are subjected to violence and abuse, but unfortunately this is also found in hospitals. It shows, among other things: a national mapping from 2019 carried out by researchers from NTNU. Not only did this occur but it turned out to be an alarmingly high level of violence, abuse or neglect. There is a great need for further measures to combat violence and abuse against the elderly in hospital homes, so that they can be more effectively averted and followed up. We cannot accept that sick and nursing elderly people in nursing homes experience such cruel events. Several measures have been taken in recent years to prevent such events in Kommune-Norway. There has also been an effort by the government to increase the knowledge and competence of employees in health and care services. But obviously this is not enough. Therefore, we need to have a national investigation in order to deal with the issue of parental violence and a notification obligation to the supervisory authorities as soon as possible when there is reason to believe that older people are being subjected to violence and abuse. It may be worth mentioning that there is today a mandatory obligation to notify child protection when there is reason to believe that children are exposed to, among other things. violence and abuse. Our older ones deserve a worthy and secure old age, whether you live in a home or in a nursing home. That is why I am pleased that the Progress Party is receiving support for this, precisely to strengthen the security of the elderly's everyday lives. Combating such atrocities as violence and abuse is something that needs to be placed higher on the agenda. You can make plans, but if they are not followed up, no plan has any purpose either. The party is impatient, and therefore we believe it is right to start national schemes and reporting obligations immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e746	Growing old should not be a bad experience. Sending their parents or grandparents to an institution must feel safe. Working at an institution must also feel safe. It's not like that today. We have to do something about that. It is good that the entire Committee agrees to establish national guidelines and to provide a notification obligation if there is reason to believe that older people are being subjected to violence and abuse. For SV, it has almost become a tradition, an annual exercise, to promote a proposal to identify the extent to which older people’s human rights are violated. It's been voted down all along. Now we have promoted it again, and now we hope for support – especially from the Progress Party, which says fine things from the pulpit, but I hope they also support the proposal. Guidelines and reporting obligations are fine, but they do not solve the problems. The biggest problem is the manning crisis in the country. We need health professionals, we need nurses, we need doctors. Those who work with the elderly must run faster and faster and have no time to help. We simply need more people at work, with full and permanent jobs, in the care of the elderly. Then it's time to calm down the one who's worried because he's beginning to forget, or the one who's lost the man and needs a shoulder to cry on. In another case, SV is promoting proposals for a recruitment standard in nursing homes, but together with the Workers' Party and the Centre, we are also promoting proposals here for a step-up plan for better staffing in the care of the elderly. If we are to ensure a decent, safe and good old age, we must understand that we cannot be careful about savings. All guidelines and reporting obligations are fine, but they do not help the elderly who have gone through this. We need to hire more people with full and permanent positions in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e759	I think it is right to say that the overall picture shows that care for the elderly in Norway is good, and it is run by many skilled workers. I am pleased, and we are many who greatly appreciate the good care that is done every day. But human rights do not end up in force even if you move into an institution or a nursing home. That is why I am pleased that a Joint Committee supports the proposals to establish national guidelines for the investigation and handling of acts of violence against the elderly and on reporting obligations when there is reason to believe that older people are being subjected to violence and abuse. The parental care is good, but we always have to work to make it better. The government has launched the Competence Plan 2025, and I am particularly pleased that these are measures to increase ethical awareness and empowerment among health professionals. It is important that we focus on this and create good tools that health professionals can bring with them to deal with such issues in a good and systematic way. It is important that all hospitals have good procedures, rules and procedures for dealing with violence and abuse at home. Value-based management at home and at home is the key to ensuring a culture of service where these basic values are promoted and maintained. I would also like to emphasise that participation, transparency and trust are a prerequisite for creating such a culture, and that this is also very important in preventing violence and abuse. I also believe that relatives need to be better involved, respected and listened to. It's also a prerequisite for success in value-based management.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e768	No one shall be afraid of being subjected to violence and abuse, and everyone shall have the right to safe and good care for the elderly. The government is working for a secure society with good services and good quality of life for everyone. We work, among other things: with several major stakes to help prevent violence and help and protect victims of violence. The government presented a new plan for recruitment, competence and professional development in the autumn of 2025, several of which will contribute to increased competence in violence and abuse. The Health and Welfare Act has been adjusted to clarify the responsibilities of the municipality and local authority in preventing, detecting and averting violence and sexual abuse. Similar changes have been made to the Special Health and Dental Services Act to clarify the responsibilities of health regions and counties. Emergency medical regulations require competence in violence and assault management for medical personnel. Furthermore, network courses have been established for law enforcement officers on violence in close relations, which are intended to strengthen their competence in the prevention, detection and follow-up of both victims and perpetrators of violence in close relations. We have also strengthened efforts to enhance ethical competence in municipalities. From July 2019, the alert mechanism for the State Health Authority was extended to all establishments providing health and care services in the municipalities. The corresponding extension applies from 1 July 2021 to the State Research Commission on Health and Care. Furthermore, patients and relatives are granted the right to alert the State Health Authority. The primary task of the Elder Ombudsman, which was recently established, is to promote the interests and needs of the elderly in all public and private areas of society. Violence against the elderly has been promoted by the Senior Ombudsman as an important topic. An electronic counsellor has already been developed to work against violence and abuse in healthcare with a separate section on violence and abuse against adults and the elderly. The Health Directorate has also been tasked with identifying examples of municipalities that have worked well to prevent and follow up violence and abuse in hospitals, from which others can learn. I consider that we have a good framework and measures to help prevent, investigate and deal with violence and abuse against the elderly. Today's decision will be followed up in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e783	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e788	A year and a half ago, the Evening Post had a series of articles that revealed that there had been 13,000 aberrations related to violence episodes in the care of the elderly. Magasin Sykepleien has had a similar coverage. Part of what has come out of these articles is so serious that it's about crime. Nevertheless, we hear very little that it is actually being investigated, accused and charged in this sector. Do we do enough to ensure the legal certainty of those who have been subjected to such serious abuses in the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e794	It can always be discussed if we do enough. Once these deviations are recorded, it is precisely because one has an attention to it, that one has systems that enable one to be reported, etc. Then there's an overall assessment of which issues are reported to the police, either by the person who's hit himself, the relatives or the service. We have also set up a study commission on healthcare. It is precisely to have an independent unit that can look at the whole system’s management of what poses a risk to patient safety and quality, including: the way in which supervision is carried out, cooperation with the police, etc. Therefore, the Government and the Advance Party consider that the Research Commission for Health and Care Services has added value in addition to health supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e801	There are now multiple ways of establishing a reporting obligation to supervisory authorities where there is reason to believe that older people are being subjected to violence and violence. I'm interested in hearing what the government council thinks can do to get a notification system for near-event events, where it hasn't happened, but one is concerned that it can happen. I'm thinking of an illegitimate coercion, for example. the fact that a set of levels lead fragile patients so that they cannot get up, as we know can happen without it being registered, mismedication, failure to follow one in the toilet in time, forced lead use, etc. This is difficult, but is also part of it with human rights and dignity in the care of the elderly. A notification obligation and a notification system could also be used to facilitate the alerting of concerns about such events, such as: Do you know a nursing home?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e808	We need to come back to how the development of the reporting obligation related to the Storting decision is to be followed up. There are some of the issues that need to be considered in this context. So the representative pointed out Toppe in a number of areas that I think most of us will experience is just in the grey zone between what's going on about good practice and what's possibly about violence and assault – which also affects many other issues. We work, among others. now with the follow-up to the recommendations of the Forced Limitation Commission, which address part of these areas and which intend to clarify more clearly what is required and what is not coerced into that part of the healthcare system. At the same time, there are a number of other areas of work, both with Wilkinson’s representative, competence and recruitment, as Competence Lift 2025 is, and also with a number of actions related to proper drug use.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e817	We have a crew crisis. The figures for 2035 say we want 28 000 nurses and 18 000 health professionals. That's old numbers. New numbers that we got this month show that it's even worse. Many who apply to work with the elderly in the municipalities are not offered full, permanent jobs. I applied for it now, at finn.no, and it's very common that there's only part-time jobs, all over the country. What will the government do – if the government wants – to get more full and permanent jobs for those who work with the elderly, so that we can get more people to help, not just a reporting obligation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e824	It's not like we're doomed to be in that crew crisis in 2035. One of the reasons for these investigations is that me and the Ministry of Health and Health have asked for them and financed them to prevent us from getting into that situation. There is also a background for us to take a number of measures, both to ensure that the good people who work in the service stay there, and also to ensure that young people want to apply for the service. And we also have to find new ways of working. So it's a combination of these things. In the state budget for 2021, which the representative Wilkinson has been involved in, the Stortinget has also taken a position on Competence Plan 2025. There the representative will see the answer to his question, namely that the government will work to reduce the use of part-time. It's one of the key objectives of that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e831	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e850	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e857	The representative proposal of the representatives of the Sylvi Listhaug, Kari Kjønaas Kjos and Morten Stordalen from the Progress Party is to ensure that ALS disease, dementia and others with severe diagnosis are to be ‘right to try’. ‘Right to try’ means that ALS patients and patients with severe diagnostics shall have access to experimental drugs that are not authorised. ALS is the abbreviation for a nervous disorder that attacks motor nerve cells in the spinal cord and in the brain. ALS is currently incurable, but it is hoped that researchers will be able to find medicinal products. 300-400 Northmen are hit by ALS every year. This is a brutal disease where patients have an average life span of only three years. The quality of life of patients and their relatives is severely impaired by a lack of curative treatment and a lack of hope. The intention behind "right to try" is very good, but the majority of the committee, i.e. all batches other than the proposers, consider that the scheme is being fulfilled through other offers already made by the Norwegian health service, or is in the process of being implemented. In 2018, the Expert Panel on Specialist Health was established. Their task is to assess whether patients with a limited lifetime can be offered a new treatment option. The system is for evaluation and it has been considered to include patients with ALS. In 2019, the first national research centre for clinical treatment was established, and ALS is among the priority disease Neuro-SysMed researchers. In 2020, the NO-ALS study opened up to accommodate participants in a study investigating whether nicotinamide riboside and pterostilbene medicinal products may delay disease development in patients with ALS. In January this year, the government presented the first national action plan for clinical studies. Clinical studies are the most important means of providing patients with new and tried-and-tested treatment. Better provision shall be made for Norwegian patients with, inter alia: ALS shall participate in clinical studies abroad. Non-marketing medicinal products may be used through compassionate use programmes. Some patients may receive new treatment that has not yet been authorised for use through clinical studies. Finally, I would like to mention that the website assists.com was established a week ago. It shall make it easier for the Nordics to test experimental treatment through international clinical studies. In total, I believe all of these measures fill the meaning of ‘right to try’, except that these offers are research-based. The research results will provide new and lasting knowledge. At the same time, with these offers, it is important that we intensify brain health research. The majority of the Committee, i.e. all lots other than the proposers therefore state that the proposal to introduce ‘right to try’ is not adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e870	Diseases such as ALS and dementia are very serious diseases for those affected, and it is demanding for their relatives. Only those who are actually affected by ALS can understand how unmerciful this disease is. It is referred to as one of the most serious diseases we have, with the loss of all the main functions of the body and the lack of effective treatment, and thus also the thin hope of those affected. We're going to be inspired by other countries when there's good reason, but the introduction of 'right to try' in the United States may not be the right example of the arrangements we have in Norway. On 20 March, two Norwegians had a chronicle of pressure in the VG, where they react to the impression that effective treatment against ALS is available, and that it is the heartless health service in Norway that is holding back, an impression that doctors in Norway do not care enough to help. The truth isn't like that. Unfortunately, there is not sufficient and effective treatment for ALS today, and very few patients in the United States have access to treatment. The Brain Council also points out that «right to try» has a number of weaknesses. We must use all our forces on constructive ways towards more effective treatment for these patients, people with dementia and other serious disease groups. Rather, a real hope for better treatment must be ensured through an increase in clinical studies that may help to find a good treatment. Unfortunately, the government has not made progress in the right direction. In fact, the number of clinical trials has been halved since 2000. The National Audit Office’s recent study has also clearly stated that too few patients have access to clinical studies in Norway today. The working party is part of the majority of the draft resolution proposed by the rapporteur. And to the so-called solutions that will be promoted in the debate, I will signal that we are going to vote in favour of the proposals No. 3 and 5 from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e881	At the invitation of individuals suffering from fatal diseases for which there is no cure, the Party has proposed that they have access to medicinal products that have completed Phase I testing but have not yet been authorised – a ‘right to try’ scheme. The proposal is also supported by the ALS organisation, while in the last few days it has been a signature campaign for adoption of the proposal. There is no disagreement about the importance of further researching brain health and facilitating the participation of ALS patients and other seriously ill patients in trial treatment whenever possible and when promising drugs are available, including through clinical studies. Better provision should also be made for Norwegian patients with, inter alia: ALS and dementia must be able to participate in clinical studies abroad. However, many feel that this is not enough and want more – therefore this proposal. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, ALS, is a rare nervous disease in which nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord disappear. This results in gradually increasing paralysis and muscle loss, and at present there is no treatment that can stop disease development or repair nerve cells. The only medicine available was made available and approved in 1995 and is believed to be life-prolonging for a few months. The development of drugs for the ALS-capped is discouraging and gives zero hope to those who already live with the disease. In the United States you can get a right to test out medications that have only completed phase I testing and are not approved. The Progress Party wants the same in Norway, not only for ALS disease, but also other groups should be included. People with dementia diagnosis, who lose control of their daily lives day by day, will be able to gain both hope and life satisfaction by experimenting with new drugs, even though these have not gone through all the testing phases. Research and drug development are taking place in many places, but Norwegian dementia sufferers are not allowed to participate, despite the fact that many of them have a strong desire to contribute. I record that all the other batches indicate that there are no promising drugs available in the US for ALS, and that a few patients have started experimental treatment for ALS after the introduction of ‘right to try’. They further point out that the scheme can create false hopes and that professionals linked to the ALS Norway Foundation are strongly critical of the proposal. To that I would say, there is nothing worse than not having any hope at all. The fact that someone in the United States has used the scheme gives hope. The fact that some professionals are critical should not override the right of individuals to control their own bodies. I see that I have to ask for the floor again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e904	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e909	I would like to raise the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e914	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e919	The progress batch suggests the introduction of a ‘right to try’ for ALS disease, dementia and others with severe diagnostics. This is a law that allows patients with a serious illness or disease where all treatment options have been tried but who cannot participate in clinical studies to have access to trial treatment. During the comitology of the proposal, it has emerged that this scheme has been criticised and has not acted on the US intention, which introduced such a requirement in 2018. Like the others who have spoken, I have great understanding that people with dementia or ALS and their relatives are in a very difficult situation. ALS is a very serious disease, and there is a need for more knowledge to provide good health care and care for people with ALS. The center party thinks we need to do even more to strengthen the research on brain diseases like ALS, MS and dementia. The center party also believes that we need to ensure that ALS patients who want to do so are able to participate in trial treatment in a way that is safe for patients. As a general rule, trial treatment should be given as a clinical study programme and should provide that the treatment is considered to be professionally justified and does not harm the patient. The centre party supports the majority in the committee in that clinical studies are the most important tool we have for providing patients with new and trial treatment. The government has presented a new national action plan for clinical studies, but we in the Center Party are far from sure that it automatically leads to such a doubling of clinical studies in hospitals as has been seen to be targeted, and the vision that clinical research will become an integral part of all clinical practice and patient treatment in 2025, whether it becomes a reality. The action plan must be followed up. As it is now, responsibility for the follow-up to the plan has been added to healthcare professionals. In 2019, the Health Directorate will present the report ‘Better quality and consistency of the services of persons receiving ALS diagnostics’. The report points to different measures and tools that can provide better quality and coherence in the services of people with ALS. In the light of the report, the Health Directorate was asked to concreteise measures that can be implemented in the short and longer term. Among the measures proposed are the development of national professional advice in the health and care services and training material on ALS for adding and deciding professionals in the services. We are proposing today that this report be followed up by a plan of action in both the short and long term. We also propose that patients with ALS should have the opportunity to participate in clinical treatment courses and to have an evaluation at the Expert Panel on Specialist Medicine, and we also have a proposal to increase the funding of clinical research on serious diseases that affect the central nervous system, such as ALS, MS and dementia. So I'm going to take up the proposals from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e934	The representative, Kjersti Tope, has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e940	This disease, ALS, is a terrible disease. I have had many important conversations with people who are members of Always Little Stronger. They've changed my point of view. These patients don't have time. Research and clinical studies are good, but it will not help those who have ALS today. Therefore, the SV has made a proposal – with some language changes – that the Stortinget ask the government to review the introduction of ‘right to try’ in Norway for ALS disease. SV will not support the proposal of the Progress Party on even more groups, and we need a system that can work well in Norway, not just copied from the United States, which has had it. That is why we need a new assessment. I know the government is against the first assessment, but if there is a majority on the Storting, they know that there will be a majority for a new arrangement for these patients. If not, SV must consider voting for the American system, but I hope we get a majority for the government to look at a new system. ‘Right to try’ is not an answer alone. It is research, testing and testing that can provide drugs that can treat well. But it will take time, which these patients don't have. I can't tell from the pulpit that the system will save people, but it can give hope. Hope is the only medicine ALS-sick can get. SV fully agrees with the proposal of the Centre Party that several ALS patients may participate in clinical treatment studies, several measures for ALS patients and more funding of clinical research on serious diseases, such as ALS. I am promoting the solution of the proposal that I have been talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e953	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, then drew up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e958	I have a great deal of understanding that many patients with ALS and dementia are confused about the lack of effective treatment. For some of these, testing may be an alternative. It assumes that such treatment is available, professionally sound, and does not pose an increased risk of significantly worsening the quality of life of the patient. I believe that the purpose of the US ‘right to try’ system is already being fulfilled through the mechanisms we have to give patients greater access to tried and tested treatment in Norway. If current arrangements are perceived as being too tight or too tight, it is better to make adjustments to current schemes rather than introduce new ones, especially when the proposed right to try scheme is criticised, little used and is found in a health system that is not very easy to compare with ours. The scheme does not give the patient any right to trial treatment, nor do doctors, pharmaceutical companies and insurance companies have any obligation to offer such treatment. We have several good arrangements to facilitate more patients access to tried and tested treatment. Several of these mechanisms are considered for any adjustments to address the needs of patients even more. There is a technical and political consensus that, as a general rule, trial treatment should be offered through clinical studies. The government’s national action plan is well received by both the service, the health industry and patient organisations, and I strongly believe that we will see a change in the availability of good clinical studies for Norwegian patients. The health regions and the health industry are now negotiating the terms of the agreement between the parties on the use of medicinal products without a marketing authorisation. I am informed that there is now movement in the matter and that the actors will be able to agree on a solution. Health regions have been entrusted with the task of evaluating the Expert Panel on Specialist Health and evaluating the mandate, so that patients with e.g.: ALS can be more fully covered by the scheme. The aim is that more patients can re-assess their treatment options. I believe that the national policy on tried and tested treatment stands, and that the framework we have set for patients’ access to tried and tested treatment in Norway is good, but can always be better. The government's aim is to involve several patients in trial treatment, and to achieve this by clarifying the framework for trial treatment and having an offensive policy for several clinical studies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e973	The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e978	In Akersposten on 22 May we can read about ALS disease Cathrine Nordstrand. That article shows what this proposal is really about. To the paper she says: ‘When they say to me, ‘Think about the medications causing you serious side effects’, I want to roar! I'm sitting here and rotting away." Unfortunately, many patient groups today have no treatment options at all, and Norwegian patients with fatal diseases are less likely to participate in the testing of new drugs during development than in many other countries. We can do something about that. But I record that even though the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre stress the importance of people with serious diagnosis getting more hope and a better life, they still vote against our proposal today. And so are the government parties. That article concludes with the statement by Cathrine Nordstrand: "It's certainly only Frp who wants to give us a terminally ill opportunity. I'm so disappointed." I am also very disappointed because today we are not willing to give people who live with a death sentence, a little tab of hope. So some loose suggestions have come in. SV has a loose proposal that is really about the government taking a new assessment. I'm not sure if it has any value, but we support it secondaryly. Then the Center Party has three proposals. Here it's also very much to turn open doors, but we don't have anything against them, so we're going to support all three.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e997	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1014	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1021	The representative proposal by Stortinget is addressed by Himanshu Gulati, Sylvi Listhaug, Kari Kjønaas Kjos and Morten Stordalen from the Progress Party to ensure that MS patients are offered stem cell treatment, either in Norway or abroad, funded by the State. The proposers want stem cell therapy to become more accessible to multiple MS patients. Multiple sclerosis is a chronic inflammatory disease of the central nervous system, i.e. the brain and spinal cord. Every year more than 500 Nordics get MS, more than 12,000 Nordics live with MS in Norway. The cause of the disease is still unknown, and there is no treatment to cure MS. This is the other thing we have today that shows how important it is to research brain health. There is already a research project at Haukeland University Hospital called the RAM-MS study. The purpose of the study is to investigate the differences in treatment effect, safety and cost between autologous stem cell transplantation and the best approved MS drug. The RAM-MS study shall contribute to increasing the documentation of stem cell therapy for patients with MS. When the results are available, it may be appropriate to consider whether the treatment should be introduced as standard treatment through an assessment in new methods. All parties to the Committee are working to ensure that multiple patients with MS have access to stem cell therapy through a national clinical study. In recent years, many new drugs have significantly improved the prediction of MS. There are therefore several treatment methods used as established and tried and tested MS in the specialist healthcare system. It is important to provide facilities for multiple MS patients who may benefit from stem cell treatment to have access to trial treatment, both abroad and in Norway, or to participate in this RAM-MS study. However, treatment must be in line with the criteria for clinical trials. Clinical studies will ensure that patients receive optimal medical follow-up, while one through the studies is involved in developing better treatment for MS patients. In its consultation exercise, the Brain Council says that the fastest way to receive stem cell treatment in Norway is through continued financial support for the RAM-MS study. This is something we agree on. The RAM-MS study ensured an extension through the budgetary unity between the Progress Party and the Government Parties. Therefore, the right does not support the proposal for increased offers abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1038	MS offers an unpredictability that is very demanding for those affected and for their relatives. The disease has unknown cause, and therefore it is so important to increase brain research in Norway if we are to help MS patients and other brain patients and get the best possible treatment. Today, Norway has criteria for who can be included in experimental treatment with stem cells. It is important to note that stem cell therapy is not the right treatment for all MS patients, and may also, in the worst case, endanger patient safety. We have noticed that the Brain Council does not support a general right for MS patients to stem cell treatment abroad. There must be an individual assessment of all patients. What we should rather consider is that several MS patients who receive stem cell treatment are considered useful for, to a greater extent, access to tried and tested treatment, both in the rest of the world and in Norway. Here I would like to draw up the RAM-MS study, which was also referred to by the case-rapporteur, which is carried out in Haukeland University Hospital. We are concerned that the treatment is in line with the criteria and is given in the framework of clinical studies. Practices for referral of patients to clinical studies abroad need to be improved. Therefore, we will recognise that regional health businesses have been given the task of developing a common practice for referral to clinical studies abroad. That's good. In this case, too, I would like to highlight weaknesses in clinical studies in Norway. The access of MS patients to clinical trials is also far from good enough. Several have to be recruited, and the recruitment has to take place faster than it is today. Here we have a great potential for improvement, and it is urgent for MS disease and their relatives all over Norway. The working party is, as it stands, within the position of the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1049	From the first day of school and throughout my life, I've had a best friend. She got the diagnosis MS very many years ago, and I have seen with my own eyes how the disease has always taken away from her more and more of her normal life. In addition, I have seen how much pain and consequential damage she suffers, and how little healthcare can do to repair her persistently impaired health. She has, like most others with MS, experienced the grief and uncertainty about how the future will be, how difficult it is to live with the fact that the disease today cannot be cured, but only slowed down and eased something. That is why for many years I have been engaged in questions about MS, and especially stem cell treatment. To ensure that MS patients are offered stem cell treatment, either in Norway or abroad, funded by the state, is the most important approach we politicians can take right now, I believe. Fortunately, Haukeland University Hospital has launched a research project, the RAM-MS study, which aims to investigate the difference in treatment effect, safety and cost between stem cell transplantation and the best approved MS drug. I am very pleased that the Progress Party was able to negotiate more money into the research project at Haukeland. That means that at least a few more people get such an offer. We have our own methods in Norway before we implement new treatments, but this takes time, time that many MS patients do not have. They're impatient, and they're angry. Norway is too late to implement new treatment methods that can give individuals many more good years of life. Meanwhile, people with this disease and other diseases travel abroad for their own account and risk. I have registered that the Hearing Opinion of the Brain Council does not support a general right for MS patients to stem cell treatment abroad, based on the fact that stem cell treatment is not the right treatment for all MS patients. Many MS patients are disappointed with the lack of support, and the Progress Party will recall that thorough investigations are being carried out in Norway before reference is made to the RAM-MS study in Haukeland. It is obvious that the same surveys are carried out before reference is made to stem cell treatment abroad. It is sad to note that the proposals of the Progress Party are not supported by any of the parties in the Committee. For my friend it is in any case too late, and for others it is also too late when the proposal is now put to a vote. We support the Committee's recommendation together with the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, and I also take up the proposals made by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1064	The representative, Kari Kjenaas Kjos, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1069	Stem cell treatment for multiple sclerosis is currently considered as testing treatment. The way to ensure that multiple MS patients for whom stem cell therapy is considered useful are offered is to do so through a national clinical study. Today there is such a study, which many have been involved in, the so-called RAM-MS study. Thus, when the results are available, it may be appropriate to consider the treatment as a standard treatment through an assessment in New Methods. The centre batch is included in the setting, which states that professional assessments should be used to assess the degree to which stem cell therapy for MS patients should be used as trial or standard treatment. As stated in the Hearing Opinion, the Brain Council has pointed out that such treatment is not the right treatment for all. The knowledge base now suggests that the effect is more pronounced for MS than for other MS types. The Brain Council also points in its opinion to the need to strengthen brain research in Norway if one is to be assisted by MS patients and other brain patients and receive the best possible treatment. Then I would like to refer to the proposal of the Centre Party in the previous case for more research, a proposal that seems to get more numbers today since both the SV, the Progress Party and the Labour Party stated that they would support it. In this case, the Central Party supports the plurality behind the adoption of the Decision: ‘The Government is asking the Government to propose as soon as possible measures to ensure that an increased number of MS patients are involved in clinical trials of stem cell therapy in Norway and to provide adequate information to the Stortinge.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1083	It was a wise initiative on the part of the Progress Party to have a case on MS, and it is good that SV, the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party can gather and work together to get a majority decision: ‘The Government is asking the Government to propose as soon as possible measures to ensure that an increased number of MS patients are involved in clinical trials of stem cell therapy in Norway and to provide adequate information to the Stortinge.’ This Decision supports Norwegian research environments, and not least: many MS patients do not have to travel abroad. That's good. So on behalf of MS patients, SV is more impatient than the majority in this case. We already believe that SV has sufficient knowledge to state in the Committee's position that we: ‘supports MS-linked and the Brain Council’s view that stem cell therapy should become a standard treatment for MS patients who can benefit from such treatment and therefore ask the government to ensure the necessary strengthening of the treatment apparatus’. Those with MS can have a lot of pain. I also have to tell the government that I hope they also work, in the Corona situation, so that these can get the medicine many of them get, and that's medical cannabis. It's been important to them that they don't have so many pains all the time. So I hope that the government will also work on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1100	Stem cell treatment for MS is considered as testing treatment in Norway and shall only be offered through clinical studies. The national study now carried out in healthcare companies, the RAM-MS study, will help to increase knowledge of stem cell therapy for patients with MS. The study is carried out in cooperation with other countries. When the result is available, it may be appropriate to consider whether the treatment should be introduced as an ordinary treatment through a reassessment of new methods. And I trust that healthcare companies and the professional community will take their responsibility for the best possible treatment provision for MS in Norway. The initiative of the national study shows just this. If Norwegian patients with MS were to receive stem cell treatment abroad covered by the public, as proposed by the representatives, it would undermine the 2016 decision to provide stem cell treatment for MS in the framework of a clinical study. In practice, this proposal means that all patients with MS who are unable to participate in the Norwegian study should be offered stem cell treatment abroad without considering the criterion for whom such treatment may be applicable. We have many effective medicines that reduce the risk of developing a serious disease. To take the risk of such treatment, it is important that the benefit outweighs the disadvantages compared to other effective treatment options. It is important to stress that many new anti-MS medicinal products have emerged in recent years, and that many MS patients benefit from these medicinal products that reduce the risk of developing a serious disease. Representatives ask the government to facilitate Norwegian MS patients to become more participants in studies on stem cell treatment in the home and abroad, and that costs are covered by public funds. The government has set ambitious targets with the National Clinical Study Action Plan. We want several Norwegian patients with MS to have access to stem cell therapy through a national clinical study. Following the budgetary procedure in Stortinget, the grant to the clinical treatment research programme in the specialist health service increased by 30 million. kr. Twenty million. kr is used to extend the national study on stem cell therapy in MS to several patients. The study management states that they can thus significantly increase the participation of Norwegian patients. They have also changed the criteria for participation in the study so that several patients who were previously excluded can now be involved. This is a treatment provided by the public, and – not least – treatment is beneficial not only for those patients who may be affected by treatment but for all MS patients – not only in Norway but worldwide.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1113	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1118	SV has written a note to strengthen the treatment apparatus in order to obtain more stem cell treatment in Norway. Does the government have any plans to strengthen the treatment apparatus for stem cell treatment in Norway to allow more people to do so in Norway once all the tests have been completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1124	State Council Yes, a number of things have been done to make this a strengthened offer that is offered in several contexts, not least as part of studies. What is important is that if we are to offer it as a regular treatment, it must have gone through a study that shows that the effect is proportionate to the risk of treatment. Unfortunately, it is not the type of study yet, either in Norway or internationally, in MS and stem cell treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1130	It's a fact that there's a lot of people traveling abroad now and paying this for themselves. This means that many people living in Norway have been through stem cell treatment. To what extent do we use it to follow up the patients and learn from what effect they have had of the treatment they received abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1135	State Council These patients receive follow-up in Norwegian healthcare, but the challenge is that the kind of approach to medical treatment does not provide knowledge on assessing the effectiveness of treatment. Because if individual patients can have a positive development after such treatment, they are not included in a clinical study with the framework they require, nor will it be able to provide us with new knowledge. Some of the challenges are that studies are not sufficiently good at international level to demonstrate the effectiveness of this treatment. It affects not only MS patients in Norway, but MS patients worldwide. Therefore, the clinical study that the Progress Party has been with and strengthened, is so important, for the knowledge gained through that study programme will be of great benefit both for Norwegian MS patients and probably also for MS patients around the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1141	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1160	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1167	The case concerns a proposal for a representative to grant official authorisation to naprapates, osteopates, paramedics and logopeds. There are currently 29 personnel groups that are authorised under Section 48 of the Health Care Act. The main purpose of the authorisation system is, of course, the safety of patients, and the scheme also provides a certain level of title protection. The size has already decided to grant official authorisation to naprapats and osteopates, and it will not be excessive to say that these two occupational groups are impatient after having this authorisation in place. This impatience is also shared by government parties. But impatience cannot thwart a normal procedure in the directorate and department. On the part of the government parties, it is thus shown that the Health Directorate needs a longer period of time to produce technical solutions, including: in the Alps. It should weigh heavily in relation to the handling of this case by the Storting. But the political will to do this is present. In this way, reference is made to the proposal for a revised national budget, where VAT exemptions include: Osteopates and naprapates are extended until 1 January 2022. On this basis, the Government proposes that, once a final decision has been taken on the professional requirements to be authoritative and the technical solutions are in place, the Government should propose the necessary amendments to the Health Care Professional Act with a view to providing the necessary authorisation for osteoporosis and naprapats – as well as paramedics and logos. Unfortunately, there does not seem to be a majority in favour of any proposal in this matter. Of course, if it all ends up attaching the proposal of the Progress Party to the Minutes, this does not prevent the government from continuing its work in line with the political centre of gravity in this Chamber, as it is today. I'm addressing that suggestion left is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1180	The representative Carl-Erik Grimstad has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1185	This case is a direct bill made by the Progress Party, where we believe that logo horses, paramedics, naprapats and osteopates will receive official authorisation under the Health Care Act. It is not the case that the Stortinget is an authorisation office, but these four professional groups have sent their applications for authorisation several years ago and received them processed. The Ministry of Health and Health has sent out a bill recommending authorisation, but in the view of the Advance Party it is too late. These are clarifications which must come during this large-scale period, in line with the Progress Party budget agreement with the Government. It is not an option to postpone this clarification until the next majority period and next government. Paramedics applied for authorisation in July 2016. Logopeder applied for authorisation in November 2016. Naprapats and osteopates applied for in December 2018. It has taken the Ministry five years to evaluate these applications. Now the conclusion is clear, and then it's just to get it done. Today I am most excited about whether the government wants to be a credible partner or not. If the government rejects this bill, the Progress Party will see it as a breach of the budgetary unity. It is not that the success of the Progress Party in a government budget is a guide for the government to follow up. For what is really an impact worth if the government doesn't feel obliged to follow it up? I expect the government parties to now support this bill. If not, it's a strong signal that it actually has no value to negotiate with the government, because it doesn't mean that penetration is going on. It will be the Progress Party to remember the next time the government might invite us to negotiations here at Stortinget. With that, I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1200	The representative of Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1205	I thought this was a rather special case. I have not experienced that a budget unit will lead to a requirement to immediately authorise new health professionals. I haven't experienced that before, and I hope it's not this way we're going to go forward in later assessments of who's going to get authorisation as a healthcare professional in Norway. I actually think it's rather unprofessional, if I'm allowed to use it as a parliamentary expression. It is not about politics to grant authorization. It shall be based on professional requirements, including education, the content of professional roles, patient safety and quality, and international relations. An authorisation gives a title protection, so users know that users who use the title have certain qualifications. There can be no decision in the Storting without a statement of case. The call that has been sent out now has a deadline of 4 June. So it is that the Storting has already decided that naprapatar and osteopatar are to receive public authorization. So this one isn't quite real either. It is now very good that the majority in this room does not short-circuit the hearing and approves the authorization directly in the laws of the Storting here today, but that one should wait until the hearing has ended. The centre party is proposing today that the government should follow up its own hearing proposal when the hearing period is over. It's also interesting to hear what comes in on the earring, because it's a fact that the Health Directorate is opposed. There is no basis for recommending the authorisation of naprapatar, osteopatar and logopedar, but they recommend an own authorisation scheme for paramedics. The centre party is not opposed to the authorisation of all these professional groups, but we do not agree to go into this through such a kind of procedure in Stortinget, through a Document 8 proposal, which actually takes place on the basis of a conflict between the government party and the budgetary partners, where they had an agreement in the state budget, where the Progress Party was forced to insist that those offering alternative medicine would no longer be subject to VAT exemptions. It was about the Center Party and the Advance Party. But in any case, one cannot follow up a budget decision in this way. In any case, I would like to distance myself from the Storting from acting as an "Authorisation Office". With this, I'd like to make the proposal the Center Party is a part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1220	The representative Kjersti Toppe has drawn up the proposal she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1225	SV does not want the Storting to be a «Authorisation Office». I have spoken to Bent Höie and asked Bent Höie many times about authorising logo horses, but I do not propose that the Stortinget override professional advice that is now being consulted. It's just a matter of health logs: I'm not going to vote to authorize logos now. But it's a little strange that the hearing was health-logoped, not logoped. I have not heard this word before. This does not happen in other countries. I have talked to some of the organisations that are working on this. Norwegian Logopedlag, Sunnaa Hospital, ParkinsonNet, the Parkinson's Association and the Afasi Association say very clearly that if we are to authorize logo pedigrees, there must be logo pedigrees and not health logos. It is important that they can work in both the school and health sectors, because many of them work in different places sometimes during the week. SV will not vote to authorise now. We will wait for the hearing to see professional advice govern the authorisation system, not the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1234	As far as I can register, there is a proposal that has not yet been addressed, so I will address the proposal that the Labour Party has in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1239	The representative, Tellef Inge Mørland, has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1245	As the representatives refer to, the Stortinget took part in the consideration of the state budget for 2021 decisions in which they asked the government to grant official authorisation for naprapates and cheeses. I understand the impatience given that the authorisation system will not be in place until the VAT exemption expires. The proposal to grant authorisation to naprapats, osteopates, logo pediades, health logos and paramedics is subject to a deadline of 4 June. In order to ensure that the decision of the Storting is complied with, it is proposed in the revised national budget that the VAT exemption for naprapates and osteopates should expire in 2021. The main purpose of the authorisation system is to ensure the safety of patients. The authorisation system shall ensure that health professionals have the necessary qualifications to hold a specific professional role. During professional practice, the authorisation shall be a security for health professionals with a specific title to have a specific type of competence. This implies that health professionals who use a protected title have a common educational background. In order to ensure that the objective is achieved, it is necessary to lay down professional requirements for the professional groups which are now proposed to be included in the authorisation scheme. Professional requirements will help to ensure the safety of professionals who are authorised to do so have adequate health professional competence and qualifications. It is also necessary for the approval authorities to have a comparative basis for assessing and quality assurance the competence and training of professionals. Professional requirements provide such a basis for comparison to the approval authority. The consultation proposal therefore proposes how we can establish professional requirements for the different professions. A change in the Health Care Professional Act before considering the professional requirements to be authoritative would be irresponsible and could be at the expense of patient safety. It is also the case that some practical conditions must be in place before the law is amended. Applications for authorisation from the different professional groups are made through the website Altinn. It is now necessary to make changes there in order to make it technically possible for the new professional groups to apply for authorisation. I believe that the timetable set for the authorisation of naprapates, osteopates, logo pediades, health logos and paramedics is absolutely necessary. The consultation will ensure that all interested parties are given the opportunity to make representations on the professional requirements underpinning authorisation, and the timetable allows for the practical arrangements to be put in place before the law is amended.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1258	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1263	We are probably many representatives who have visited our offices, before the Corona arrived, from professional groups who want authorisation. Therefore, my party has been open that we can start – and have wanted it to start – a process around it. We know that there are far more professional groups than those currently mentioned in the proposal from the Progress Party, which have had such a wish. Of course, that doesn't mean everyone is going to get a yes, but the government has also, as part of the budget agreement, chosen to authorize some pronounced groups. And right now in the Chamber, it was just before Bruun-Gundersen announced that there could be a budgetary crisis when we are going to negotiate the revised national budget, if not followed up by the government. Why does the Council of State think it is a good idea to use budgetary conciliation to authorize new occupational groups? And doesn't he think it's a little strange that you take the consultation process afterwards and not prior to such a decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1270	Finally, there is a political decision in the government which groups should have authorisation, i.e. that it is actually in Stortinget in connection with legislative proposals. So this is a political question in the end. Once the government parties have met the wishes of the Progress Party in these areas, and not in other areas related to authorisation, it is simply because it is based on a professional assessment. It is not the case that this list, or what is adopted in the context of a budgetary agreement, is merely a wish list from some groups that have been heard. It's also true that we've seen the directorate's assessment of these different groups and found that these are the groups that are within the framework of what we can at some point recommend the Stortinge to join the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1277	The Council of State was at the beginning of its contribution itself to the agreement with the Advance Party in the budget. It is well known that there is one thing you have been doing for years. My question is then: what has made it so long that we have not followed up the previous decision of the Storting and the budgetary unity with the Progress Party and that it will only be consulted now?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1282	Firstly, I do not agree with the description that it has taken a long time. We agreed on the state budget for 2021 in December 2020. We are now in May 2021. And I think the representative has come to realize that both the Health Directorate and the Ministry of Health and Welfare also have a little bit of other things to do right now. It is also the case that, in the context of the budgetary agreement, the Progress Party was very keen to ensure that acupunctuators would also be assessed in the future. All of this has contributed to the fact that this has taken the time it has taken – even though it is a high priority in us. It is not that we have said at any time in the budget negotiations or after the budget negotiations that this agreement involves breaking the ordinary legislative procedure and the consultation institute in connection with authorisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1287	I just have to ask the Minister of Health: what did you think when you were going to have a health log? I've tried to figure out which countries have used it. It's just a new word that no one understands. Organisations don't understand what it is. I know it's supposed to be a hearing, and I know that everyone who works in the field thinks it's a customs name for this group. Can the Council of State say a little bit about what the government thinks about it? Is it possible that it will be “logoped” instead of “healthlogoped” that no one understands?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1292	That's precisely for the reason we have the hearing – to get the recording. One thing is that we have said that these are groups that we believe politically should get authorisation, and will promote it for the Storting in line with the agreement with the Progress Party. But as I said in my post, there are a number of aspects about the content of this that it is important to get views on in the hearing. So the representative knows that a significant argument against logopeds having received authorisation in the past has been that there is a not insignificant number of logopeds that do not work in healthcare but work in completely different services. The normal thing is that those who are authorised under the Health Care Act are professionals who mainly work in the healthcare sector. And here you stand out in that area. Once we've chosen that term, it's probably just to get the point that this is primarily for health care logos, because that's where this law applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1299	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1306	In the state budget for 2021, the Progress Party, with the utmost reluctance, agreed to remove the VAT exemption for alternative medicine, but the premise was clear – that health professionals not in alternative medicine should not be defined as such either. That is why we thought it was right to give official authorisation to naprapates and osteoporosis. The government expressed their agreement, and the applications had already been processed, so that this could be regulated quickly. The Naprapathy and Osteopathy Professional Group thus received a continued VAT exemption until 1 July, indicating a clear premise and expectation that the authorisation would be in place by that date. I assume that the Minister of Health was also involved in this assessment when the negotiations were under way and this deadline was set. Nevertheless, until the end of March, the Ministry had to send out the bill at the hearing, and this progress led to the direct training of the case. This will not be in place by 1 July if the Stortingen now takes responsibility. I therefore ask the Minister for Health to clarify why this is not clear by 1 July – in line with the budgetary agreement. This is definitely perceived as a breach on the part of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1315	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1333	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, three lines will be given with replies after contributions from members of the government, and those who may sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1340	Today we are discussing a proposal from the representative of Moxnes to investigate a zero-plus option for hospitals in the Inland. Hearings were held in the case and eleven hearings were received. The proposal for a new hospital structure naturally creates enough debate. It often does so when it comes to the location of hospitals. The Health Minister decided in 2019 that South-East RHF could plan for a hospital structure for the Hospital Inland HF with a new main hospital, an emergency hospital on Tynset and continued hospital operations in two of today's somatic hospitals, in the form of one emergency hospital and one elective hospital with daily functions. Prehospital services and local medical centres shall be further developed. The Board of Health South-East also decided at its meeting on 22 April that a real zero option, a zero-plus option, should be explored during the concept phase, which is made comparable to other alternatives. The case is handled by the Boards of the Hospital Inland HF and Health South-East RHF in extraordinary board meetings now in May. In an extraordinary board meeting on 4 May, the Board of the Hospital Inland recommended an alternative with a main hospital in Moelv, an emergency hospital in Lillehammer and an elective hospital in Elverum. This is further investigated in the concept phase together with a zero option based on today’s solution and location. The final decision shall be taken by the Minister of Health in the Business Meeting before the summer. A large number of consultation opinions point to the challenges of today’s hospital structure in the Inland, including high levels of functional sharing, small professional environments, patient journeys between hospitals, parallel watchlines and poor economic sustainability. The government will ensure safe hospitals and good health care wherever you live. We're going to develop the patient's healthcare in the interior, and in the years that come, we're going to offer more services closer to the patient's home and bring together the specialised services in a new hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1355	In the interior, the Labour Party and several parties agree with us that the main thing now is to ensure that we get a new and modern main hospital right at Mjøsbrua, this in order to ensure the best possible and complete patient treatment in combination with a good local medical and prehospital offer in our long-term state. Now it seems that the Mjøssjukehuset has finally landed at Mjøsbrua on Moelv. We're happy about that, but it's not necessarily happening without consequences. And it can't all stay the same as before. The specialist health service should be better than before, better than now, and hospitals replaced by the Mjøssjukshuset may still have important functions, such as – indicated by Gjøvik, my hometown – different contract specialists, perhaps also local medical facilities and other activities that meet important needs. My municipality is losing today's hospital as it is now proposed, but we get a large and modern hospital with a lot of competence jobs as the nearest neighbor. We do not support the proposal of the Red Bears Moxnes to investigate a zero option, as one suggests in the case we are now dealing with. We need change, because today's structure is not sustainable, neither professional nor economic, but I stress that the assumption is a location at Mjøsbrua, and it has to stand firm, now and in the future. Today’s structure, which is pointed out by a large number of hearing bodies in the process, has challenges – yes, this was recently explained by the rapporteur. A new structure will ensure added value for the skills and the money we use. At the same time, I must stress that until Mjøssykehuset is finished, we must be spared from economically motivated cuts due to poor hospital economy and savings that weaken the patient's offer. Therefore, we propose that existing patient services and professional settings in somatic and mental health protection in the Hospital Inland should be strengthened until a new hospital structure has been adopted and realised, in order to ensure the stabilisation and recruitment of health professionals. We say, among other things: no large transfer of tasks to municipalities. With this I have promoted our proposals from the red-green side.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1368	The representative, Tore Hagebakken, then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1373	The proposal for a new hospital structure in the Inland has been going on for several years and following a typical hospital structure process in the health service model. Of course, Saka has created a debate. Nothing is more important than the security of communities than emergency services and access to good specialist health services. Inland is a region with large distances. Hence, structure means an extra amount. It was in the Business Meeting on 8 March 2019 that the Minister of Health and Welfare adopted the so-called ‘target’ for the development of the Hospital of Sjukehuset Inland HF. According to the Council of State, a collection of specialised functions shall take place before somatic, mental health and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment in a new emergency hospital, the Mjøssjukhuset, an emergency hospital on Tynset, and continue to operate in hospital in two of today’s somatic hospitals in the form of one emergency hospital and one elective hospital with daily functions. There has been quite a stir around this so-called target image locally, but several hearing authorities indicate different arrangements for supported speech. A constant feature of the hearing from the municipalities is that they have led or ordered that the Mjøssjukshuset or the emergency hospital be located closer to their own municipalities. Based on the experience of hospital planning in Oslo, the centre party fears that the calculation of the so-called zero option after the adoption of the target image will not guarantee a real distribution. For this reason, we propose today that the zero option should be considered as a real alternative to the development of the Hospital of the Inland HF before deciding on the future hospital structure, the target image, in the enterprise meeting. I record that the Labour Party has already concluded on it. We think we need to get a serious settlement of this before we make a final decision. We are concerned that the Sjukehuset Inland is subject to a very large saving plan that involves reducing bed capacity, faster printing, co-location of services and reduced staffing so that they can realise the new hospital structure. We think it is unfortunate that a person is required to assemble a function and a professional environment before a new building is ready. To this end, we propose today to ask the government to strengthen existing patient services and the professional environment in both somatic and mental health protection until new hospital structures have been adopted and realised. We also suggest that care should be taken to ensure that hospital capacity in the Inland is matched to the future needs of the population, and that one prevents one from getting a capacity based on a commitment to increase efficiency, cut daily treatment and a large transfer of tasks to the municipalities. With that, I'm making the proposal that the Center Party has with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1388	The representative Kjersti Toppe has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1393	It is wrong that perhaps the health care community's most important decisions, such as the dimensioning and localization of hospitals, are not taken by elected bodies or after locally anchored processes. Of course, decisions about hospitals, such as: To demolish Ullevål Hospital and build a new hospital in Gaustad, a major issue – and also in this case: the organisation of hospitals in the new Inland. This cannot be decisions taken by the Council of State alone, following recommendations from health company boards which have no local public-elected anchoring. In capital letters, we must scrape the health business model. Only in the last board meeting of the entity was it decided that one should also consider a zero option, but such a decision is more likely to be a proforma. The Board of Health South-East decided on 22 April to explore a real zero option, but the same Board of Health Enterprises will make its final recommendation as early as Friday. This is a treatment where a hazard over one of the alternatives with hare labs. On the SV side, we're not sure what is the best hospital solution for the Inland, but one thing we're sure of: the decision is going to stand for very many years. Then we have to have a full investigation of all the options.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1406	Inland is an area that has large distances. If we centralize the offer in hospitals, the route will be longer for the population who already have a long way to go to hospitals today. Red has come with its proposal because a centralisation of hospitals in the Inland region is planned, involving the closure of several hospitals that are so extensive that there has been hardly any similar closure of hospitals earlier in Norway at one and the same time. With the proposal, we then agree to support the requirements that have been raised in the Inland to get an investigation of the existing hospital structure, which now appears to be a serious health south-east, and which is a good thing. But it is nevertheless true of the Storting, we believe, to adopt the proposal. There must be no doubt that the State as a hospital owner takes this very seriously. We've seen similar processes like this both in Helgeland and also in Northern Ireland in recent years. It is therefore an assumption that a higher quality of patient treatment will be achieved and also better economic sustainability will be achieved by centralising existing local hospitals into a larger community hospital. There is no automation in that larger hospitals with longer travel will provide better results for patients than what we see with smaller hospitals. It is also uncertain whether the Hospital Inland can handle the financial obligations that come with the so-called Mjøssykhuset. It is planned for a future where the Hospital Inland must cut, an economically motivated efficiency that can go beyond the offer of patients in the next round. We see that the centralisation plans therefore also face great public opposition. Half of the domestic population say no to the new Mjøssjøshuset, while only 35 pst. have said that they support these plans. It's also about, we don't think it's proven that the Mjøssjukehuset with the co-location of somatic and psychiatry is the right approach to meeting the future. There is little professional empirical evidence that psychiatry is served with that kind of centralization and co-location. And not least: the hospital is getting less capacity, as we've seen at Kalnes in Eastfold. It is also not a good solution in terms of patient provision. Once again, fewer beds are planned. That is irresponsible, we believe. It is reverse to plan for hospitals with poor capacity from day one. What is needed is good hospitals near people with room for patients and hospital projects for people who fit the whole country, including those parts of the country where there are large distances, as we see in the Inland.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1419	There is a need to change the hospital structure of the Hospital Inland. Today’s functional distribution between hospitals in the healthcare company means that none of the hospitals can offer a complete range of multidisciplinary and diagnostic treatments. The target picture of a new hospital structure was adopted as known at the company meeting in 2019. It involves the collection of specialised functions in somatic, mental health and multidisciplinary drug treatment in a new emergency hospital, the Mjøssjukehuset. The thawed hospital is maintained and, in addition, there shall be hospitalisation in two of today's somatic hospitals. Prehospital services and local medical centres shall be further developed. After the business meeting in 2019, Health South-East, in cooperation with the Hospital Inland, has investigated solutions for future hospital structures at the Hospital Inland. This work was carried out at the hearing, and there were different views on where hospitals should be located. However, a large majority of the hearing bodies indicated that today’s hospital structure is not professional or economically sustainable and will not be adapted to future demands for specialist health care in the Inland. The user selection at the Hospital Inland joins the target image with a common main hospital for the Hospital Inland. The representative of Moxnes asks the government to ensure that a zero option has been investigated for the Hospital Inland based on today's hospital structure. At the Management Board meeting on 22 April, Health South-East decided to explore a real zero option, a zero-plus option, to be produced in a comparable manner with the other options. In general, a zero option shall represent a proper continuation of the current situation. The minimum cost of being a real alternative, including the necessary maintenance costs, shall be assessed. In the board case, Health South-East indicates that the zero option must contain the necessary adjustments to maintain proper operation and meet future capacity needs. Parts of the hospital in Hamar are in poor condition and have to be replaced. The Health South-East Board therefore indicated that the zero-plus option must at least require a new building to replace the hospital in Hamar. The zero-plus option will be determined in line with the other options explored in the first step of the concept phase. The studies shall provide a basis for Health South-East decision on the options to be elaborated and detailed in step two of the concept phase. Before Health South-East launches a concept phase investigation, I will hold a business meeting with leaders of a new structure at the Hospital Inland. This is planned to happen before summer. The alternatives identified during the conceptual phase in addition to the zero-plus option will be within the corporate meeting’s decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1430	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1436	A lot has happened that has gone in the right direction in the case of the Mjøssjukehuset and the main hospital at Mjøsbrua. I also said in my post ‘right by Mjøsbrua’, so there is no doubt. I'm not going to mention cities or small urban communities that don't belong to that category. What I'm asking is: what will be the basis for the structures until the new hospital is completed, both in terms of somatic and mental health protection? What are we waiting for? I feel like it's a very central question, because it's a little bit ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1443	I understand that both the representative and the residents of the interior are concerned about, but I think it is wise that the answer to that question comes more when it is actually decided which concepts you go further with. So we know that the closer we are to the realization of a hospital project, the greater reason there is to start making changes along the way, so that one adapts to the new structure before all is done. It's also common. But this is a bit ahead, as the representative was inside, so it's too early to say anything about that phase right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1452	As the Council of State said in its statement, on 22 April this year, the Governing Board took a decision that, as part of the concept phase, ‘a real zero option’ — zero-plus options — ‘made comparable to other alternatives’. In this way one might consider that this proposal for a representative is superfluous, but our concern comes from the experience of what is happening in Oslo. If one outputs such a real zero-plus option and one assesses that one will go ahead with it, it will be in conflict with the target image that has been adopted, no matter how one turns and turns on it, because it says that it should be a collection. How does the Council of State view it as real when it is completely contrary to the objective adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1459	In this phase, we're investigating zero or zero-plus options to provide a good enough basis for comparison when the next step in the decision is taken. And that also means that if you realize in that process that the option you're now pointing at is not in that context, you have to take that knowledge into account. We all have opportunities to do that, of course. But as I see it politically as regards the Inland, this is a solution that very few want. On the contrary, there is a very strong political commitment in the Inland to get the country a further process related to how the hospital structure should be, and that one very clearly wants a Mjøssykhus solution politically.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1464	We are concerned about the principle when it comes to how hospital procedures take place in healthcare establishments. As it has been in both Oslo and the Inland, one starts in a way by adopting what is the goal, and then one goes out afterwards. It is interesting if I perceive the Council of State's answer correctly – that it is that the Council of State opens up to make a change to the decision on the target image from 2019, or what time it was, if the distribution were to take otherwise. Is it so that the target image adopted can adjust to what the results show and what one considers to be the most realistic structure to go further?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1469	Yes, we're doing the investigations just to have a good enough basis for decision-making. It's not like you're starting the investigation by deciding on a target image. These are investigations before deciding on the target picture. So for every step you take, for every time you have an investigation process and the closer you get to the final construction decision, the fewer alternatives you go along with, and the more resources you use on the option that you expect is the more realistic. However, in the current phase of the Inland problem, a target picture has been adopted. It can now be adjusted in connection with the business meeting before the summer. Then you go on anyway and investigate a zero-plus option in the concept phase. However, for every decision-making process, there is more knowledge of the decision-making basis, and the more obligating is the direction of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1474	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1493	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1500	Today, the size should decide whether to allow patients with the disease retinitis pigmentosa to access the treatment method Luxturna for patients who qualify for it, either domestically or abroad. The proposal is rejected quite in cash by the Committee, and an overall committee – all parties in the Committee – draws up the following arguments against the draft representative, which are also referred to in the Council's letter of reply: ‘– the proposal will undermine the principle of equivalent healthcare provision and non-discrimination across patient groups and lead to less predictable priority decisions; the proposal will weaken the negotiating position of regional health establishments [...] the proposal would be contrary to Section 2-1(a) of the Special Health Service Act on the responsibilities of regional health establishments for setting up their services in line with the priority criteria; the proposal would be contrary to the Patient and User Rights Act § 2-4(a) on the reimbursement of costs of healthcare abroad’;» The patient association for the group concerned, the Retinitis Pigmentosa Association in Norway, believes it would be surprising if this proposal had been given a majority. The OUS eye department believes that they themselves can perform surgery and follow-up of this patient group in Norway, and there is no need to send these patients out of Norway for treatment. In April 2021, Luxturna was introduced as a method in Norway, so that the majority of the Committee, all but the Advance Party, support a comment that the intention of this proposal is fulfilled. Nevertheless, I notice that some politicians are out and say that this proposal is the reason why this happened, and it's a strange connection. In fact, it's a very ordinary decision-making process done in the decision-making system that the whole Storting has been behind. It is a majority in the Committee for a proposal that one should look in the context of both the municipality and the specialist health service in the decision-making and prioritisation work in Norway, and that has also been announced by the government. This is also the result of the work that has been done, in line with the prioritisation message.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1532	I can actually join much of what the representative of Stensland said. We are pleased that this patient group is now receiving a treatment offer and that it has done so through the decision-making channels that we are behind. In this matter that we are dealing with here, the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, points out that there is a problem that there is a lack of transparency and reprobability in the systems of new methods. It is also a debate that was up when the decision-making forum was legislated. In addition, we are concerned that there are increasing numbers of collection actions for treatment in social media, through spice and so on. It is difficult to see that people then become dependent on having a large network and their own good economy to access treatment. We also see that part of the decisions taken is not necessarily good for society as a whole. However, the fact that a decision is good for the budget of the individual hospital may mean that a municipality is subject to considerable additional costs, related to aids, medical follow-up or personnel, and costs may also be linked to disability and social security payments as a result. That is why I am very pleased that there is a unanimous committee that supports the proposal – which is then the position in the matter: ‘The government is asking how the decision-making forum for new methods can make the best possible decisions across specialist health services and community health and care services to ensure good socio-economic decisions.’ That's part of the paradox we've seen here in this case: that there's a patient group that might get major permanent disabilities that actually end up costing society more than the treatment does. But then there is also a concern that more and more such cases are being addressed in the Storting, because it is also involved in undermining the system to provide equivalent access to patient treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1548	This representative proposal is therefore about facilitating Luxturna to be made available to Norwegian patients who qualify for such treatment. Many have brought the story to the 28-year-old boy who, among other things, TV 2 has been reported about. The exposure to the case has been large, as several media have focused on this. If he did not receive treatment, he would become blind. This boy is one of under ten people who would have had an operation if Luxturna were approved. Common to these is that collection actions have been started to finance treatment, and not least to save vision. For the Progress Party, it is important to address such issues. I record that other parties have more focus on defending systems instead of solving everyday challenges for people in our country. There are such things that engage. I think there are very few of the people who have read this in the media, looked at the TV and got the entries, who think it's okay that we continue like this. For the Progress Party, it makes no sense for the State not to cover such a type of treatment. It's just frontpages, no downsides, for those that apply. Alternatively, if you lose your sight completely, these people will have a much greater need for public assistance throughout their lives. It will only be a loss for everyone, especially the people involved, who will suffer a severe deterioration in their quality of life. Without treatment, it may mean that they are not going to work, which also means increasing social costs, and in many cases that costs will far exceed the cost of an operation. Where such treatment exists, the Party considers that it is unreasonable that the State should not finance for such diseases. We can't have it so that individuals have to resort to collection actions because you're more concerned with defending a system. I note that there is no political majority in favour of the proposal, nor has it been. It was therefore gratifying that the Decision Forum on New Methods has decided that Norway should start treatment with Luxturna. Most happily, it is for the people involved. Finally, they can receive the treatment that the Party of Advancement has also thought they should receive. The Progress Party will not stop making such proposals if it can help people get a better life. With this, I will address the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1565	The representative of Morten Stordalen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1570	It's a little bit special to get blamed for being a party that defends the system, by the party that gave plurality for just a law-enforcement of the decision-making forum and the system of new methods. I'd like to remind the Progress Party of that very thing. Today, the Progress Party proposes to give Luxturna to patients who need it, while the Centre Party and SV propose to ask the government ‘to establish an alternative payment model for treatments used in the specialist healthcare service, where the payment is calculated on the basis of the observed health benefit after the application of the treatment’. So we do not support the proposal of the Progress Party today. The proposal we're making is taken up from the Retinitis Pigmentosa Association and is an alternative payment model where the payment is based on results. the health service undertakes to pay an agreed maximum price in annual instalments if the treatment has the expected long-term effect but the payment is otherwise curtailed. This is by model from Denmark, which has introduced a similar model. Both the Labour Party and the Progress Party write in their comments that they cannot support the Center Party's proposal because they think it intervenes in the ongoing evaluation of the New Methods system. As I read the mandate for that evaluation, there's nothing to look at funding and new financing methods, as we suggest here, so that's actually not an argument, but it's something that one of course can do in parallel with what's happening. When the Labour Party writes in the setting that they cannot support it because any change in the price model should be subject to a thorough arrangement, that is exactly what they are getting. We're not proposing to introduce this, we're just proposing an explanation, and I'm wondering that this proposal cannot get multiples, that one cannot be involved in this. For it is not only this patient group that could benefit from such an alternative price model, but also other patients with rare diseases where the long-term effect cannot be demonstrated immediately. With that, I take up the proposal from the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1581	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1586	It is good that Luxturna is made available to people with the eye disease we are talking about. It's a little difficult for me to say this name, so I hope this disease is good enough. This case is closed because the decision-making forum has decided that they should have this medicine. The SV notes with concern that more and more decisions on the introduction of medicinal products, treatment methods or medical devices appear to place too much emphasis on price and that other policy objectives are being weighed down. The current system for the purchase of medicinal products is based on the establishment of a fixed unit price for medicinal products by competitive tendering or price negotiations. We in SV believe that we should consider an alternative payment model where the payment is result-based. That is to say, healthcare commits to pay an agreed maximum price in annual instalments if the treatment has the expected long-term effect but the payment is otherwise curtailed. The specialist healthcare service should be able to use such a payment model in individual purchases of medicinal products. Denmark has already used a similar model to offer treatment to its patients. SV and the Central Party propose that the government should consider an alternative payment model like this. I hope that the Labour Party and the Progress Party will look at the proposal, because then we can have a majority. Such a solution would result in the country paying only for documented efficacy, while providing patients with rapid access to new treatments. SV is impatient on behalf of those groups in a disease progression with rapid negative development. Then you don't have a sea of time, as it seems the Minister of Health has at his disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1597	It is gratifying that new knowledge and new technology create treatment opportunities that were unmistakable just decades ago. At the same time, we see, in particular with new genetic technologies, that the resources they can seize challenge the sustainable development of healthcare. Therefore, the need to maintain and further develop good prioritisation systems will not be reduced in the future. The size has delegated responsibility for taking decisions on the introduction of new treatments in the specialist healthcare services of health regions. Luxturna was originally addressed in the Decision Forum for New Methods in 2020. The decision-making forum then assessed that the price offered was not proportionate to the documented effect and decided not to introduce Luxturna for the treatment of loss of vision. Following price negotiations, the medicinal product was approved for use in the specialist healthcare service in April 2021. This is necessary in order to achieve cost-effective prices and thus to release resources that can be used for more patient treatment. I agree that the system always has a potential for improvement, and there are already several of the elements discussed in the vote. At the same time, I do not think that the way out of difficult priority issues will be to raise these issues to political decision. This will break with regard to the priority criteria that we have adopted, taking into account the equal treatment of patient groups and also with the trust and responsibility that we have given to the health regions and the system of new methods. The majority have decided that the government will investigate how the Decision Forum on New Methods can make the best possible decisions across specialist health services and municipal health and care services. I agree that priority decisions in specialist health care and municipal health care must be seen in the context in order to provide the patient’s healthcare. It is not the case that the priority decisions taken in New Methods today do not take into account the impact of the decisions in other parts of the healthcare system, or for example. the decisions are based solely on the hospital economy. The effects on resource use across healthcare services are already included today. At the same time, the EEA has agreed that the effects of healthcare on other social sectors should not count in terms of equivalent access to healthcare. The government is working on a communication to the Stortinget on the principles of priority in municipal health and care services. In the Communication, we will propose horizontal criteria and principles for the entire healthcare system. I believe that this will contribute to the overall patient cycle and to a more efficient resource use overall in the healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1611	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1616	I had posts, like the Center Party, that we would like to have an alternative payment model, which Denmark has. I am a little disappointed that the government parties could not go into this proposal, or the comments, to look at a system that several others have. Why do the government and government parties think it is a very bad scheme when Denmark uses this scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1621	There are no restrictions on the types of contract forms we enter into with the pharmaceutical industry. So if you think this is a contract form that takes good care of it, you can use it. However, the challenge is that one should not ignore the fact that some of the forms of contract presented by the pharmaceutical industry also aim to make them so complex that it is no longer possible to compare prices between different types of medicinal products into a priority context. One must be so honest and open that sometimes the forms of contract that have a purpose in addition to the individual medicinal product are presented, including. in order to prevent the possibility of price comparison and ultimately simply undermine the whole system, as it is no longer possible to compare prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1626	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1645	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1652	I would like to make a statement both as rapporteur on the matter and for the Labour Party, so here it will be a little bit both in the same article. I think this is an exciting proposal that the representatives of the SV have put forward. There is little doubt that there is a high level of involvement among health care employees that healthcare should also take its responsibility for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and also develop a health sector climate plan. Because it is a paradox that the health sector, which is designed to help us live a good life, either through prevention or treatment, also through its activities, contributes to emissions, to climate footprints, which can also help to harm public health. There is an overall committee that points to the impact of the health sector on greenhouse gas emissions and also notes that health services in the United Kingdom have set themselves the objective of being climate-neutral throughout the value chain by 2050. So even if these proposals don't get a majority today, I'm assuming that many parties think it would be exciting to follow up on what's happening to health care in the United Kingdom, and what they can get into. I will address the proposals on which the Workers' Party is involved. The Labour Party will also vote in a subsidiary way in favour of proposal No. Four from the Center Party. I also recommend the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1663	The representative Tuva Moflag then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1668	The Central Party supports the intention of this proposal for a representative, but we believe that a climate plan for the health sector must first of all apply to hospitals and specialist health services. The background for that is that we think it would be wrong and bureaucratic to create a climate plan where the climate change in the health services in the municipalities should not be part of the ordinary climate action that should and must take place in the municipal sector. That is why we believe that a climate plan for health services must deal with the specialist services, and we propose it. We believe that all healthcare professionals must be obliged to develop a climate plan with an overarching objective of a climate-neutral sector. We also believe that climate change needs to be assessed when health care agencies are planning for a new hospital structure. Centralising supply or building a new major hospital in favour of local hospitals can lead to increased greenhouse gas emissions, both through increased patient transport and through increased travel for a large number. Taking care of decent buildings rather than tearing and building new ones could also mean reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We therefore propose that health professionals in their development plans be required for future structure and service provision to be visible and focus on reducing climate impacts. With that, I'll take up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1677	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1682	Climate change is a serious threat to public health, both locally and globally. Greenhouse gas emissions have significant adverse health impacts. If the global health sector had been a country, it would have been the world's fifth largest producer of greenhouse gas emissions. The health sector stands for 4.3 pst. of Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions, which is more than air traffic. We need a climate plan for the whole health sector. All organisations in the hearing support the SV’s proposal. The health sector has direct greenhouse gas emissions that originate primarily from energy and patient transport, but the sector indirectly accounts for large greenhouse gas emissions related to the purchase of goods and services. Globally, the pharmaceutical industry is responsible for higher greenhouse gas emissions than the car industry. Norway has great opportunities to negotiate procurement agreements for medicinal products and materials that impose high climate requirements. If we use this, we can also strengthen Norwegian production, since Norwegian production is cleaner than in many other countries. Then we'll get a head start. SV has a plan for a fair green shift. This proposal will help on the road from the age of oil to a fair green society. In England, they have a health sector climate plan that aims to be climate-neutral throughout the value chain by 2050. I had hoped that the Left and Christian People's Party would give a majority, but they have said that they will follow the Advance Party and the Right. The journal of the Norwegian Medical Association asked the parties who could take an initiative in Norway. SV takes responsibility and promotes, together with the Workers' Party, proposals for a climate plan for the health sector. SV votes secondary for proposal No. 4, from the Centre Party, if the proposal on the climate plan for the health sector falls.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1697	A climate plan for the health sector is considered to be reliable, but the Stortinget has adopted a comprehensive and highly ambitious climate plan for Norway for the years 2021–2030. This can be seen, inter alia, from the point of view of: in the form of decisions, a comprehensive infrastructure for zero and low-emission vehicles, several passenger transport technologies, volume of waste, etc. And, of course, as everyone knows, a CO 2 fee, which is of a certain kind. Reference is made to the fact that the United Kingdom has adopted such a plan for the health sector, but the United Kingdom has not adopted such an ambitious plan for the climate sector as a whole. Then I have to tell the Center Party that this must be one of the strangest proposals the Center Party has ever been behind. The best way to bring climate change to life in the health sector must be to stop driving diesel cars in the Oslo centre. It turns out that the largest climate emissions related to the health sector relate to passenger transport, and the centre party is so far behind that I do not know exactly how to comment on that matter. I think I'll end up there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1711	The fight against climate change requires global efforts. Norway submitted a reinforced climate change objective under the Paris Agreement last year. We're going to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 50 pst. and up to 55 pst. by 2030, compared to 1990. This is a crucial step for us to be a low-carbon society by 2050. In order to achieve this, the health sector must also contribute. The government recently submitted Climate Change Plan 2021–2030. The plan shows how Norway will meet the climate target while creating green growth. Means in the climate plan will also oblige the health sector. The health sector consists of a variety of actors and activities. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has chosen to own the health regions, which in turn own health businesses. Each municipality is responsible for the operation of various health and care services. All actors must have a conscious relationship with their climate and environmental impacts. They must be clear on their responsibilities in acquisitions, construction projects, heating and energy use and generally in all ordinary operations and patient care. Since 2011, health regions have cooperated in reducing the impact of specialist healthcare on climate and the environment. Through ownership management, I have called for new measures and an ever-increasing level of ambition. In 2015, I asked them to ensure that environmental requirements were set in acquisitions and that environmental indicators were developed. In 2017, I asked health regions to set up a cooperation committee for environmental and climate action, where they also brought with them Hospital Building and Hospital Purchases. I also asked for the development of joint documentation and reporting on the work of the specialist health service on social responsibility. Now we see good results from this. An annual report on the work on social responsibility in the activities of the specialist health service is published. By 2019, I asked health regions, in cooperation with Hospital Purchases and Hospital Buildings, to place increased emphasis on climate and environment in purchasing and in construction and maintenance projects. Many good measures are being implemented to reduce the impact of climate change on the health sector. There's still a great potential to do more. As mentioned above, the government has recently presented its climate communication showing how Norway will meet the climate target while at the same time creating green growth. The government has chosen an overall climate communication, and I am concerned to follow this up through the ownership of the specialist health service, and I want to build on and further develop the good work already done in the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1724	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1729	The Council of State says we have the climate announcement, there are many proposals, and the government will follow up. But organisations say very clearly that there are very few concrete solutions in healthcare to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. That is why many countries have, for example: England, made a separate plan for the health sector, because they need to know what they can do to reduce emissions. There are solutions in health services other than for many other areas of society. Why does the government think that we should not have a climate plan for the health sector, when all the organisations say there was very little about the health sector in the major national climate communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1735	: We are following up our ambitions in the climate communication of the management of the specialist healthcare service, as I explained in my article, and it helps to ensure that the specialist health service also contributes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Nevertheless, this is largely in areas covered by concrete measures. For example, on the construction side, the measures implemented in general in society in the field of construction, energy, etc. will also apply to healthcare. We have established a separate company, Hospital Building, which is just helping to develop good skills in which actions are effective, and not least ensuring that good results are used in new constructions. This is how a really take sector by sector. The specialist health service as a sector is very much also characterised by the other sectors’ climate action.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1740	I have talked to several people who work in hospitals, who say that it is very difficult to get the solutions through. Leaders have many major demands from the government, for example: health treatment, which is the most important, so it is very difficult to accept from the managers of health businesses. Therefore, SV believes that we need a climate plan in order that those working on the floor too can get some help to get a majority. Another suggestion: The left said that now the government is going to work to get a zero-emission vehicle, and then I think ambulances. But I got an attack from the Right in the paper that it was difficult, and that it is so important to have a high octane for the ambulances. Is the government getting more zero emissions in health care, or not? There are two different stories, from the Right and the Left, in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1747	A great deal of transport in healthcare is not ambulance transport, so there are still great opportunities there, not least in municipal health and care services. It is now moving towards the municipalities' own climate targets. The health sector is an important part of the municipality’s own climate objectives, such as: that the home service, a service that runs a lot, uses full-electric cars. I think everyone agrees on the ambition to have zero-emission cars, electric cars, in the future. But of course, they must, at any time, satisfy the functional requirements that are. Norway’s electric car policy is precisely contributing to the creation of a market for the development of cars, which, hopefully at some point, will meet the requirements of being an ambulance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1752	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1771	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1778	I would like to start by thanking the Committee on this matter, which is therefore a change to the Energy Act, namely Section 4-2, which has been the subject of a lot of debate in the past, not least in connection with the big round that we had in Stortinget in advance of a broad majority decision to support the proposal to join the EU's third energy market package, which was thus held in 2018. In connection with that discussion, it was agreed to make a change to the Energy Act, which made it clear that the system operator, i.e. Statnet, would have a monopoly on owning and operating Norwegian foreign tables, i.e. that part of the cables that goes to other countries and that is in Norwegian ownership. Then I'll say a little bit more about the history of this particular law at this point. It was during the Stoltenberg government that on 14 June 2013 a paragraph was introduced which made it clear that it was the system operator, Statnett, who would be responsible for all the cables. That paragraph was then lifted on 2 December 2016, when under the Solberg government, with the then oil and energy minister Tord Lien. It was then argued that one should have a multiplicity of actors and no longer have a monopoly with Statnet as a system operator for these cables. In the context of the broad consensus negotiated in 2018, Stortinget decided that the government would return to Stortinget with just the change that has now come. Therefore, I would like to say that it is good that in this period we finally have this clarified, that we are now adopting today the announced change in the Energy Act, which for all practical purposes brings it back to the state that existed in 2013, and away from the one that was adopted in 2016. As the case rapporteur, I would like to state that this is the main issue, and as an Labour Party representative, I would like to say that I am pleased that we have reached this broad consensus. Then there are some important questions that are derived from it, which we can come back to in the debate. These include: about the cables that will gradually be built to sea windmills, that is, to the North Sea. There the government has the right to have a stand-alone issue that requires a stand-alone clarification. The view of the Workers' Party is that this should also be operated and owned by Statnett. There are also some questions about how to deal with an outstanding concession case that is so far pending, related to the so-called NorthConnect cable. But this is at least what the matter is about. With this I address the proposals of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1791	The representative Espen Barth Eide has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1796	The central party's starting point was that the liberalisation carried out by the Right and the Advance Party in 2016, allowing private operators to build, own and operate foreignables, was wrong. The fact that the law is now being reversed is primarily good, but also interesting all the time that the Right has made it an independent point in the debate that you should not reverse things that have been adopted. The centre party is concerned that the energy resources are our common good. They have served Norwegian consumers and not least Norwegian industry well. The infrastructure will bring power, it has been a crucial piece for a well-functioning society, and for the policy objectives set for energy policy to be achieved, such as low-cost power and security of supply. As a hindrance, the view of the Centre Party has been that it has been essential to control the transfer capacity to the rest of the world. The liberalisation carried out in 2016 opened up the possibility for private operators to milk the Norwegian power market and to weaken the ability to manage energy policy in order to safeguard Norwegian interests. The party's oil and energy minister Tord Lien even made it an independent point that Norwegian electricity prices should be higher. A means to get to it was just to change the law and open up to the private cables. This made it possible for the owners of NorthConnect to apply for a concession. As you know, that application is currently on ice in the Oil and Energy Ministry, but with today's amendment of the law, it will not be impossible to re-treat that concession for the future. This means that in the future we are at risk of having the NorthConnect cable built, either under the control of Statnett or with private owners – despite the fact that today's changes in law and the new cables to Germany and those who will be ready for England will give us an export capacity of between 50 and 60 pst. of Norwegian energy production. In a situation where we all agree that more should be electrified, the Centre Party cannot understand the need for each individual to await experience with existing cables in the light of this. The cable capacity is already very large, and the concession applicant for NorthConnect has even estimated that the power prices with their project will increase to 3 øre/kWh. That is why the Centre Party is particularly disappointed today that the Workers’ Party will not join in and close the dirt hole. It would be possible without a transitional arrangement, as the proposition states. Today's amendment is based on the agreement between the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Green Party, which was concluded in the context of the approval of the EU's third energy market package. As we know, that agreement has left the Progress Party, and that the Workers' Party does not ensure that NorthConnect can be built as a privately initiated cable, is disappointing in our view. I'll bring up the proposals from the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1815	The representative of Ole André Myhrvold has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1820	The case manager has a good post that explained the changes and the history of this case. For the Christian People's Party's part, it is such that we support both the changes made in 2013 and 2016, but were not part of the agreement to which it was referred, in 2018, and stood alone outside that agreement. Now, a broad majority wants this change, and the government has fulfilled and met it in a good way, so the Christian People's Party will also vote for it, despite the fact that we may have a slightly different story from the broad majority in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1825	The proposal we are discussing today is the result of a compromise. It was important to become part of the third energy market package, and for those who had to watch this on the Internet, they could go back to the debate that we had a week or two ago about that very topic, why it was important, a debate I think the followers of the third energy market package got used quite clearly. So what we're doing today is not the primary point of view of the Right. Our primary position was the change that was made in 2016, because we believe that a more diverse image of actors will be able to promote projects for comparison and competition with each other, and that it is a good one. After all, when one hears the rhetoric of the representative Ole André Myhrvold, one must wonder what world he lives in. He's talking about private companies that until today were able to "milk" the Norwegian power system. I think that such rhetoric goes completely over all the boots, and that one should be more honest when discussing it. These private companies that it's about, who owns them, to a large extent? Yeah, they're county councils. This is something the Center Party should be happy about. These are the companies the Center Party should have the same thing. The private companies are like companies with large public interests, they're called private companies, so why is he standing here with such rhetoric? It's totally incomprehensible. The second thing he fails to tell is who negotiated that it would be possible with cable to the United Kingdom. Well, it was Ola Borten Moe, because the Center Party believes completely different things about these issues when they're in government and when they're in opposition, and it should be worth noting. I respect that people can disagree with me and my party on these questions, but those who are, shouldn't vote in the Center Party, because you never know what you get with them. Because when they're in government, they like to think the whole opposite. But we're now implementing this change because it's part of a compromise. It was a right and important compromise to make. Then I look forward to the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1836	In the spring of 2018, a large majority decided that a change to the Energy Act would be implemented. It was decided that the wording of Section 4-2 of the Act should be amended, so that only Statenett or companies where the system operator has a dominant influence can own and operate power cables between Norway and the rest of the world. This is in practice a reorganization of the law amendment made on 2 December 2016, where the ownership restriction was lifted so that private operators could build, own and operate foreign tables. Norway should not be a closed market, but it is important to find the right balance between security of supply, domestic electricity prices, how much our own industry needs, etc. As of today, there are 18 international connections from Norway to other countries. These go to Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Russia, the Netherlands and Germany. These power cables are owned and operated by Statnett. The proposed legislative change will not interfere with the established ownership of the existing property, and the law does not have a retroactive effect. It was important for the Progress Party not to build any more foreign tables until experience was gained from the cables under construction, and that NordLink and North Sea Link and socio-economic profitability should be a prerequisite for the construction of any future cables. Nor does the Progress Party have an independent objective of Norway becoming Europe’s green battery, as the Central Party in the government wants, and we believe that power should be used as much as possible in Norway. But it is important to balance the different considerations against each other and see what effect the cables are under construction having on Norwegian electricity prices, security of supply and the power system for the rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1845	State ownership over the central network is a prerequisite for ensuring democratic control and security of supply. This means that SV also has to apply to the international connections. This has long been an important political issue, and the provisions of the Energy Act in this area that we are discussing today have been amended several times. Some of it is also stated in the government proposal. We support the main lines of the government proposal in SV. But since this whole thing really started with the discussion about NorthConnect, it becomes strange to let that cable be processed according to the law of the day, not according to the law as it becomes when the Storting changes it. The application for the construction of NorthConnect was submitted to the Ministry of Oil and Energy from the NVE without cancellation and is located in the department. A concession was also applied for to build the same link before the amendment of the Energy Act was promoted and treated by Stortinget a few years ago. At the time, the matter was subject to the amended Energy Act. The NVE then suspended the NorthConnect concession treatment. Therefore, SV believes that there is now no reason why the cable should be treated according to old law, and that this means that a treatment is opened to enable the cable to be built.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1850	I'm happy for the majority that stays in this case. The fact that we have changed the law upwards is correct, but we should remember that we are really dealing with a matter that is from all over the way back to 2009, when the EU came with its third energy market package, and we in Norway are almost ten years after implementing it. Now it's going to be called Clean Energy, and eventually the New Green Deal, and it's about getting clean energy to the market to cut emissions. So, the President-in-Office of the Council, Espen Barth Eide, says that we're going back to what the law was. No, we're not doing that completely, because the so-called private actors, like the county companies, like, for example. the request for NorthConnect has been granted a right of initiative. Private operators have been given the right of initiative to start planning and development, but it is the State that has to own and operate the cables. I think it's a change to take with me, and the left is good in the law we're adopting now. There should be opportunities when we have clean energy left over, to bring it out if there are others who need it and are willing to pay for it. To the Center Party: I hope you continue in government as you have done. The central party of the government has been for all foreign residents, and also opened for NorthConnect. So what kind of thoughts you've come up with in opposition is a little hard to see. Especially when we face the challenge of cutting emissions, it is important to electrify as much as possible. It's going to be a challenge when we get to the sea areas, which are going to get more infrastructure, and not just gas and oil in pipes. Then the couplings become important. There will be a lot of cross-border connections here as well. But that does not apply to the matter we are primarily discussing here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1860	This applies, of course, to changes in the Energy Act on who should be able to own and operate international connections. The background to the bill is, as you know, two requests decisions from the Stortinget from 2018 and 2020, and this bill changes the legal status back to the way it was before 2016. This means that a concession for international connections can only be granted to the system operator, i.e. State networks, or undertakings in which they have a dominant influence. The proposal has been consulted and the majority of the hearing bodies support the government’s proposal and believe that Statnet is best suited for owning and operating any new foreign relations. Since the request decisions were promoted, considerable attention has been paid to the development of offshore wind power. Infrastructure built for sea-based wind power could also be used for power exchanges. In order to avoid the unintended impact of this legislative proposal on this type of infrastructure, we have also proposed a delimitation. The proposal therefore opens up the possibility for other actors to own transmission links related to the production or consumption of electrical energy at sea. The proposal presented does not have retroactive effect and will therefore not include the NorthConnect concession application. That application was sent to the department before the bill was promoted. But as we all know, the treatment of this concession request is suspended, pending experience of the effects on the power system of the two new cables to Germany and the United Kingdom. The current derogation for international connections in lower-level border areas than the transmission network is continued. This applies to small connections that cross the border with Sweden and are used for the input of power generation and for the supply of customers in the distribution system, not for the exchange of power in the ordinary sense. Such connections shall continue to be capable of being owned and operated by persons other than Statnet. I believe that this bill will ensure the overall development of the Norwegian power system, while not imposing restrictions on the development of offshore wind power, so that it can be adapted as progress is made. I am pleased that the majority in the Committee supports the proposal as proposed, and I am also pleased that we are following up on the agreement reached in the Stortingen a while ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1873	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1878	I thank the Council of State for a thorough introduction. I want to acknowledge that the agreement that the Council of State agreed to sign, since it was a representative of big business, has been held by this government, and it has been important that the partners of the agreement have adhered to it. It's been useful for all of us. I really have a question about the future, because we've spent a lot of time talking about that it's about harvesting experiences. Of course, it's very early to gain experience. The first of the two cables that Ola Borten Moe in the government I also put in, was negotiated, namely NordLink to Germany, will be formally opened now on Thursday, with great partyivitas, and the Prime Minister and Chancellor Merkel will be present. But it has been in operation for a few months, and I wonder if there is any preliminary impression that the Council of State could share with us, about what it has meant to us. For what has happened in the meantime since this debate began, is that Northern Germany has become extremely much more renewable in its power system, and therefore the picture is that in Norway we have clean power and in Germany it is cool, changing. Is there anything the Council of State can tell you about it so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1885	It's probably a little too early to get into the effects of that cable, but I think the representative has a very good point. Once we've discussed force exchange earlier, it's been common to think of this as sending out our pure power and replacing dirty power in Europe. But as the representative is involved, we also see that renewable energy production is growing on the continent as well, and I believe that Norway is in a good position like this. This is also an unregulatable force. That means we can import when it's very cheap. We can store it in our warehouses, and then we can sell it when it's more expensive. It's a good thing that's a different effect of power exchange, which is positive, although of course you also have to look at the total effects on the power system. As I have said many times before, I therefore agree and think it is good that we should now wait and look at the experiences before we might have more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1890	I thank you for your answer. I would like to point out that a few days ago, prices were almost down to zero because we got so much cheap power up from Germany, where prices were short-lived negative – that is, they got money to use power – and that is something that happens in a renewable power system. But I want to turn to a slightly different question, because the Council of State has made a delineation against the cables that will be built in the development of sea winds. The Workers' Party has indicated that although we agree that there is a stand-alone issue, that the government has the right to do so, we should nevertheless aim to ensure that it is the system operator Statnet that owns them. I want to know if the Council of State can elaborate a little bit why she thinks it is important to make this distinction.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1897	What's in this bill is really not closing any doors, if I'm going to try to explain it a little simple. The development of the web at sea is something that lies ahead of us, it's not in place yet, it's quite immature. Many countries are now working on how to regulate this. There are absolutely good arguments to think about the way the Workers' Party describes in the setting of the case, so it is not that I am in principle against it. But I'm concerned that we're not going to close any doors right now, because we also have to wait a little while and see how other countries choose to organize this. I know that there are some countries in Europe like this. looks at the possibility of cooperation between different countries' TSOs also in ownership issues, so it's a little too much to limit ourselves now, when we're on the threshold of something that can become big, exciting and new, and have the opportunities open. But this is a development we obviously have to follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1902	The Government Parties, the Workers' Party, the MDG and the Advance Party, at that time, entered into an agreement when they chose to join Norway in ACER. One of the demands of the Workers' Party when they entered into the agreement was that all future foreign connections should be owned by Statnet. Since then, Red has repeatedly warned against NorthConnect being built, and it must be stopped. Now the application is for the cable in the department – ready to be adopted if desired by the government. What has come from changes in the law from the government means that NorthConnect can still be built with private owners. This is why the Workers' Party's proposal that NorthConnect should only be built with the State as its owner, but it is not supported by the government parties. Does the disagreement here mean that the agreement between the ACER comrades no longer applies in full?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1907	No, by no means. I've answered that in countless times in the Great Britain before, in many debates we've had about this. It is also in the agreement that the amendment to the law that we concluded an agreement that the government should promote should not have retroactive effect. This is not a breach of that agreement. I know that there are different political opinions about how to deal with the NorthConnect concession request, when one day it may be resumed for treatment. Nor do I agree with the representative that it is ready to be adopted in the department. That treatment is not completed. It's now suspended, and we've been very clear on that. I have to say that sometimes I find it a little difficult to get the real meaning of the opponents. Is it that you shouldn't have NorthConnect, which is the main principle, or is it who should own it? I think in between there's going to be a little bit of a mix in the argument about it. Then it's fair to say that you don't want any more cables, and you're done with it, but the issue of ownership really shouldn't matter that much.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1914	I think Red has been very clear here. There are other parts that have been a little bit more fuzzy. There will be no less increase in the electricity price of that NorthConnect owned by the state than by private. It won't be. It's going to be the same effect of the cable if it's private or public owners, but we're basically for the state to own the connections. We are clear on that, but we do not want NorthConnect in either private, semi-public or state direction. It is interesting that the Council of State is clear that the agreement has not been broken in any way. But if it is as obvious to the Council of State and the Right as one of the contracting parties, it is strange that the Workers' Party needs to promote a proposal for treatment that is not supported by the other ACER comrades on the civil side. Does it indicate that it is the Workers' Party that does not fully understand what is then crystal clear for Bru in the NorthConnect agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1921	I think the Labour Party understands this perfectly, but the Labour Party can, of course, take the floor in the debate and promote its own opinion. What I also think – I do not manage to do, for this debate has the representative Moxnes and I had once before – is that the representative shows a great deal of concern about the impact on the price of electricity related to more power exchanges or more cables, but I have previously heard the representative say very much about a big deal, for example. sea wind off the coast of Norway. It would also increase the electricity price on land if you were to pull that cable in. I assume that the representative Moxnes also wants the power we may be producing in large sea wind turbines to be held somewhere. It would have been interesting to know where the concern about the electricity price is with the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1926	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1934	Finally, the Energy Act must be amended so that only Statnet can own the foreign tables. This was the great victory of the Workers' Party when they signed the agreement with the Greens' Government and the Greens' Greens' Party to join the EU's Energy Union, Acer, for major protests from both their own rapporteurs, their own party and not least the trade union movement. The Workers' Party has claimed that with the Acer agreement they have stopped the private cable NorthConnect, and have repeatedly voted against proposals here in the Chamber to ensure a stop by NorthConnect, precisely because they have this agreement with the other Acer comrades. Now it may seem that there are some cracks in the agreement, because in the bill that is on the government's table, the NorthConnect application, naturally, is specifically excluded. Just as Red has warned against repeatedly, the application is now pending in the department, and whoever wants from government councils there in the farm can press the green button and start processing to get the application approved, regardless of the law amendment adopted in Stortinget. Therefore, there is a separate proposal from the Workers' Party for the treatment of NorthConnect that the cable cannot be put into service without Statnet owning it. It is not supported by the other Acer trailers. The question then arises whether the Labour Party no longer has a working agreement with the other parties. If that's the case, the Workers' Party is cordially welcome to come and vote against the NorthConnect cable, along with Red, Center Party and SV. But it probably won't be the Working Party. Despite great resistance to NorthConnect both in trade and in their own party, they keep the door open in the future for this export cable, as we know, based on analyses, will increase the power price, whether owned by the state or not, which in turn may present increased challenges for the Norwegian power-intensive industry. There is therefore no reason to ensure that the application for NorthConnect will remain pending in the Ministry, for which the Workers' Party is in favour for all practical purposes today. This is the last chance that the Workers' Party may say no to NorthConnect before the election. Now is the opportunity here to ensure that the power goes to the industry. This could be a fateful time for Norwegian industry, and then it is important that a single left-hand side should be set up, say no to this export cable and say yes to ensuring Norwegian industry access to cheap electricity from pure renewable energy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1943	Inspired by the statement by the representative of Moxnes, I only wanted to be very clear that we felt that the agreement had been kept by both the government and our side, and that it was true that there was part of the consensus that concession applications that had already been submitted would be allowed to be processed on the basis that existed when it was applied for, but also that any entry into force and operation would take place in line with the new legal situation. There's been a broad consensus all the way around, and it's still there, so here, Moxnes is trying to find a problem that doesn't exist. What the Workers' Party has wanted is to make this even clearer in the text, because we think that even if we could read the intention quite clearly and correctly out of what it said, it could be made clear that this possible change to the Statnet ownership must have happened before the cable starts operating, if it is ever adopted. Then I have to remind you that there are a couple of other assumptions that we also agree on, and that are part of both the agreement and explicit decisions in the Stortinget, namely socio-economic profitability, which then includes the price for industry and consumers, and also that we need to gain thorough experience with the cables that were under construction at the time, where one is now fully built and operational and the other is soon to be put into operation, i.e. the two cables for which the Stoltenberg administration and Ola Borten Moe laid the foundation, and for which there was a broad consensus then. The first one was mentioned in the city, i.e. NordLink to and from Germany, and the second one is North Sea Link, which goes to and from the United Kingdom. What Moxnes might want to take over is that the power systems in other countries are changing enormously quickly. In fact, when the positions in this case were taken, both the United Kingdom, which has now signed up from the EU, for those who have not received it, and the EU countries also had a rather coal-dominated power system, and at the same time they had higher and higher CO 2 prices. That's why the power price was high on the other side of the cables. It is quite right that if you have a lot of exchange capacity from a low-priced country at a high-priced country, you can import a slightly higher price. But what we've actually seen is that the system is changing so radically that the United Kingdom, and not least Scotland, where this NorthConnect cable is planned, is becoming completely renewable, and then you'll have periods of roughly free excess wind, which can be imported. There is no export cable, because by definition a cable can carry electricity in two directions, and it is becoming increasingly common that the cables that – quite correctly – were built for export are now used for import. That's why we think it's wise to relate to the real reality out there, where this image is changing so strongly that taking locked positions about the number of cables in and out is just a kind of a denial of knowledge. But the fact that Statnett is going to drive them is a principle, ideological position that the Workers' Party will never leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1957	I'm very pleased with the last thing that Barth Eide said, he said it was an ideological point of view, and there are no good real-world arguments to do this. That's absolutely right, it should be the same who owns it. It has nothing to say at all, and it has nothing to say about whether construction is going on, as it is Norway that decides through a concession process, even though some representatives talk about ‘to milk’, etc., which is totally unprofessional rhetoric. In the extension of that, I therefore have a question for the Central Party, and any of the two Central Party representatives can come up and answer it if you want. One is: what does the Central Party think of the following text of the Agreement: ‘Support the efficiency to develop electricity interconnection between the UK and Norway.’ It's Ola Borten Moe's deal with the United Kingdom. I wonder if someone in the Center Party could come up and say what they think about the quality of that agreement, if they think he did a good job. I guess he's still the vice president of the party. The second question to the Center Party is: why does the repeated proposal to stop NorthConnect come? I understand you're against it, so it's okay, but the reason why I ask is that the Central Party believes Norway no longer controls whether or not NorthConnect should be built. It's at least the arguments that come up every time you discuss the third energy market package, on the popular coin called ACER. As they argue that we are no longer deciding: it is wrong, but why do they bother to suggest this over and over again? The third question of the Center Party, and it really concerns the whole left side, but since the Center Party had the toughest rhetoric on it right now, together with the Bears Moxnes: Why do you refer to companies owned by the public – just not the state, but it can be municipalities, county municipalities – as private companies? Do you think it's good to deceive like that? Is there something you're comfortable with? The last question is, how is it to have identical analysis of the power market with a revolutionary communist party? We know that the Center Party in the media consistently rejects that they want to cooperate with Red. It must mean that there is some sort of anti-communist attitude in the Center Party. That's good, but when you talk about the power market, you totally agree with the revolutionary communists in the whole analysis, and it would be interesting to know why.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1975	I can't speak for the Center Party, but at least I can say that what Red stands for is common sense, so if others agree with it, it's just positive – whether they're centre parties or come from other parties. What we basically want is to ensure that Norwegian industry, power-intensive industry producing metals and minerals with much less CO 2 than many competitors – not least those using gas power, whether it is in the Arabian Peninsula, or whether it is coal power, as we see in China – on similar production, is not competing with these countries. We need to secure the future of this industry, which is also important to many communities around the country. They're exporting over 100 billion. kr this year and ensures technology development and industry along our entire coast. That's the background of the engagement, which is shared not only by Red, but by many parties, and not least by the trade movement, that went all the way to NorthConnect. To answer the question from the Council of State, Red has a national meeting decision in which we say no to sea wind on a pre-war basis, so that question is no longer relevant. We also want to ensure that fisheries are taken into account and that we do not waste on the future of a potentially eternal renewable resource. We also want to upgrade our hydropower plants, extract more energy from the hydropower. There's a lot that can be retrieved, we'll believe the analyses. In addition, we may have the least debated issue in Norwegian energy policy, namely the potential for saving energy. Here there are great opportunities, not least in the case of construction, to save energy and thus also to release power to new industries in our country that will also be green and renewable. Finally, it is interesting that when you look at the evolution in electricity prices, we see that South Norway had higher electricity prices than Germany not just yesterday, but throughout April, for the first time, and that the cable between Norway and Germany reached full power in March. It's probably not like we're just importing lower prices from the continent, it's also a danger that we're importing higher and higher electricity prices through more and more cables. We already have more than enough cables to ensure both the security of supply and the export of any foreseeable surplus of power in any foreseeable future. There is no reason to build more cables if you want to ensure security of supply or if you are worried that we will not be sent out enough of our power abroad. We have too far more than enough cables to take care of it if that's the concern. Perhaps there is rather the need to submit to the EU and follow the EU dictatorship that is the reason for the decisions in this Chamber, not the pretexts of security of supply and the lack of cables to get rid of the surplus of power.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1987	I don't think the representative Heggelund is a stranger to ideology, but I can confirm that the position we have that Statnett should own and operate cables is both sound ideologically thought and actually quite reasonable, because it is directly inspired by the system we have in Norway, where the top level, the transmission network, is reserved Statnett – not because Statnett knows best in all matters, but because they are a neutral actor, which is neutral between the producer and the consumer. It is an important principle that we believe should also apply to international connections, and therefore they should be the system operator. If there are cables owned by power producers, they have a self-interest that does not necessarily coincide with the consumer's. So this is a position that is both principleal and ideological and also wise and sensible, according to the strong belief of the Workers' Party. That's why we think it's a standing principle that we're going to stick to. Then to the representative of Moxnes. I really want to ask the representative of Moxnes a little bit more about his view of cables, and the first question is: What does he think of the four cables going to and from Denmark? Was it a disadvantage for Norwegian industry that we got them, or could it be an advantage that the excess wind power is increasingly imported almost free of charge for which the Danes are not provided? I know about many in the industry who are happy that we get prices down with that kind of cables. He can answer that himself. But if, for example, he does. To say that it might have been a good idea to build the cables to and from Denmark, you also have to keep open so that other countries can go in the same direction as Denmark does, at least because they both say they do, and actually do. The power system in Europe is changing so much that the idea that we always have the cheapest power is falling. And then we get a new situation. That being said, we also believe that we have enough cables now. We have definitely enough cables for the current situation, so we've said not to build new cables until these three prerequisites are met that we think there's a broad consensus about here in the hall. But we can't go from there to saying that we've decided once and for all, that we know what the future will look like in the future, because there's an incredible amount going on here. There are also many in Norwegian industry who are concerned about Red's position on sea wind, not least in the trade movement. There was actually quite a shock in a lot of the industrial trade movement when Red said they were categorical about any expansion of sea wind, for many people who feel that just liquid sea wind is one of the industrial ventures that can take over after oil when the demand for oil and gas will gradually decline. So if the point is always to agree with the trade movement, I think you could start by being it in their great belief in floating sea winds. We have a very good dialogue with the trade union movement. We believe that what we have landed on is reasonable and wise. I'm open that in the future it can change, and that's a position that I experience is well-connected with both the central industrial federations and the LO and has been it for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e1998	First, it's absolutely right that Ola Borten Moe gave the concession to build two foreign tables, but he also said no to three. He also wanted to stop NorthConnect and remove it from the EU's priority list. So the history is not exactly the way it was produced by the representative Heggelund. Nor has the centre party been historically in principle against foreigntables — there are reasonable foreign connections, and there are unreasonable foreign connections. What we know about NorthConnect is that it's going to increase the power price of the industry by about 3 centimeters/kWh. It will have quite major consequences. It was quite interesting when I visited Norwegian Forest Saugbrugs on Thursday and got to talk to the head of the group in Norwegian Forest. It was a man who was very sceptical about increased international connections of electricity and exports of electricity, who would drive prices in weather for competitive Norwegian industry. So this is not a concern that only the Center Party has, it is also a concern that extends far into the Norwegian competitive industry. The cable officially opened tomorrow will be a cable that will have net imports and non-exports. It's also a moment to bring with it. Then we're talking about calling the NorthConnect cable private. Yes, it's private, because the Central Party believes that the foreign tables, as Barth Eide said, are part of the comprehensive network, and it should be under state control. It's a monopoly. And it's important that there's a neutral actor. It's okay that the Right representatives point out that there are county municipalities inside the owner's side of NorthConnect, but it's also hydropower. The Swedish state is on the owner's page in NorthConnect. It does not serve Norwegian interests. It serves Swedish taxpayers. This is one example showing that a law has been liberalised to open up to actors other than Statnet. That's what the Center Party is against.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2009	The representative Bears Moxnes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2014	As I understand it, it has not been up to discussion or decision our view of cable to and from Denmark many years ago. What has been the question has been whether we want to have more foreign tables or not, and we have been against it to ensure a balance between the concerns of Norwegian industry and Norwegian households and this forcefully to the rest of the world. What we at least agree on, I would think, is that the gigantic plans to electrify the base from land, which the Workers' Party, as I know, is for, will mean two things – first of all, a cost of 50 billion. kr, of which 40 bn. kr goes to the inhabitants and, secondly, a bottling of more than 10 TWh from domestic power surplus. This could lead to pressure for more wind power on land, which, in our view, is scandalous and should be stopped, and less power for new industries on land. So in sum, it's a bad deal, in our view.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2019	It's a little disappointing, I have to say, when you run out of arguments and end up using references to reason, common sense, reasonable cable or something like that – to replace knowledge about a complex system like the European power system. Understanding advanced genetic technologies and viruses does not help so much with common sense. Understanding forest ecology or cryptocurrency doesn't help much with common sense. What this is about is getting a deep knowledge of how the energy systems actually work. Think of yourself claiming Norsk Industrie and having the habit of standing up here and doing so when Norwegian Industrie has published this quote from Stein Lier-Hansen: "We believe that the Moxnes Court of Marines needs it, we already have it. In addition, Norwegian industry needs predictability and safe access to power independently of weather and wind. Power exchange and energy cooperation, and a Norwegian place at the Acer table, contribute to this.’» Greetings to Norwegian Industry. Instead, we should switch the debate to what society we want, and in the European Union that debate is far ahead of what is happening in Norway, unfortunately. So what society do we want? ‘Net zero emissions’ – net zero emissions – a society that works well within the planet’s tolerance limits, which has an active state that makes business greener and more inclusive, is now heavily regulated by the EU. Then it doesn't help to sit on each of its tues and masts about heirloom and its own and say no. ‘Face it’ – we are European. This should provide a practical basis for us to become active participants in using our capital and knowledge to participate in the major European reverse operation, and sea winds and cables are becoming crucial in the future. In the scenario of what is called WindEurope, it is obvious that it should be approx. 250 GW sea wind in Europe by 2040 in order to achieve the zero emission target, and approx. 30 to 40 of these should be in Norwegian waters. There is a conservative estimate from European thinking in the field. We should start giving up and getting ready for that. In this context, the interaction between sea wind, the land power system and the European power grid will be central. And the day to start investing in this is now. For 6 to 7 years, sea wind capacity is needed, costs are reduced and cables are built so that this can function seamlessly with Denmark and the Netherlands, which plan such hubs in the North Sea region, which will allow optimal exchange. It is energy security in a climate-friendly way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2039	The debate is coming to an end, and that is certainly all right, because there is a broad majority for the outcome that is now soon to be adopted. But I think it might be nice to sum up with an important point, and that's that the facts have got power again in this debate. It has been said and claimed that a lot of contexts that, when looking at reality, actually don’t stand up, and I think the representative Stoknes’ posts right now illustrate this in a very good way. I believe that the fact that we have gathered a broad majority around the point of view that we are going to have a transparency that the future is different from the past, especially when the whole world is trying to change is incredibly important in this matter. I want to acknowledge the cleverly said representative Ole André Myhrvold, that the Senter Party was a supporter of sensible foreignables, and then presumptuously against unreasonable foreignables. So is the Workers' Party. We are fundamentally opposed to any unreasonable foreignable, and we are also fundamental to foreignables that contribute to an increase in the price of Norwegian industry. However, it follows logically that it may be possible to be allowed for foreign tables that lead to a lower price for Norwegian industry, otherwise the first reasoning is not entirely watered. I think we're going to assume that many of the interests that would first build new cables because they saw that Norway would basically export and make money, now it's getting a little bit of new thinking because the cables can actually have some of the opposite effect. The representative Myhrvold illustrated well that the German cable NordLink, which is now being increased, may well have worked as much as an import cable. That's right, but that wasn't the plan. I sat in that government, and that was not what Ola Borten Moe, Jens Stoltenberg and Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, who was Minister of Agriculture, and I myself, who was Minister of Foreign Affairs, believed. We thought that this was an export cable that would greatly contribute to revenues for Norwegian power exporters, and we thought at that time of it as something positive. But this image changes so fast that I think it's extremely wise to have this approach: let's reap experiences, let's think in principle, let's think about this in the long term. Now that I understand that the Center Party and the representative Myhrvold are on their way to it, I would encourage and say that I think it might be a good idea for the representative Moxnes to do so too – along with a new round of how wise it is to say categorically no to the energy form of the future, which is liquid sea wind, where Norway lies extremely well, both to produce power and to produce the technology that can give it power, in precisely the yards and in the workshops and with the technology that the oil age has given us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2050	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2068	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2075	I would like to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee on this matter and also thanking the proposers for the initiative. There is a relatively broad consensus on the importance of predictability of petroleum research, as for the rest of the petroleum industry. This research and development has served the country well and will be essential to ensure the greatest possible development of the industry in the future, but not least in order to ensure the transfer of technologies, competences, innovations and research results to new industries and products to be built and developed in the context of the achievement of Norway and the world’s climate objectives. We can't make a green transition without just that technology, the competence and the capital of the petroleum industry. The climate debate is too much about energy and should be more about production in the future. The future manufacturing industry must be based on renewable principles, but with known technology and competence. And Norway has that in a big monn. The vast majority of the Committee also points to the overall objectives of research and industrial development, which are to contribute to increased value creation, employment and competence in the energy and petroleum sectors from a low emission perspective. It is essential to be able to build the necessary transition to future jobs and industries with reduced environmental and climate pressures. This is important nationally, as well as internationally. Norway’s extensive natural resources have provided the basis for both significant research environments and a large supplier industry throughout our industrialised history. At the same time, support for research and development shall enhance the opportunities for Norwegian business and competence to compete in an international market for environmentally and climate-friendly energy solutions. Research and development is therefore essential for future value creation and Norwegian competitiveness in a demanding international market. Proposalers want a strategy to give industry predictability. We must then stress that every year substantial funds are allocated to petroleum-oriented research and development. In addition, we have spent considerable resources in the sector in recent years, and in addition, the industry itself, according to the Research Council, invests about 3 to 4 billion. kr every year. The national overall strategy for petroleum technology is already under review and is expected to be completed in November this year. And with the forthcoming Landfill Communication on long-term value creation from Norwegian energy resources, for which research policy is also expected to be explained, the Committee recommended this time to reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2090	As the rapporteur pointed out: Norway has served well in oil and gas production for many years. The strong commitment to research has helped us to search for and extract oil and gas in a more gentle way and reduce emissions from production. This has also resulted in the development of a supplier industry that has taken global positions and contributed large export revenues in addition to revenue from pure oil and gas sales. Competences associated with such a strong international leadership environment have given ring-effects to completely different industries, such as aquaculture, which is well known, and marine pumps, which are also well known. But I also know that several of the companies that appeared around TV 2, such as StormGeo and Vizrt, arose in the interaction between the old Hydro – who joined Statoil and became Equinor – and TV 2. We also know that the developed drilling technology contributed to the development of Norwegian gaming technology. Robotization and artificial intelligence have contributed to the development of medical treatment services. Examples show how broad it really is when it comes to being able to invest and set up research against areas where Norway has such an important leading position. The Labour Party is a supporter of free research, but in this area it is important to combine both – that we have some free research resources, which give the results it was referred to instead, but also that we may be more focused in the future to ensure that we also have positions in new markets. There may be decomposition of old oil installations — there is a large world market, where we should take forward positions. There may also be re-use of existing oil installations for either sea wind or algae production, or the hubs that may be out in the North Sea, where Norwegian and Danish industries are involved. As far as the concrete proposals are concerned, the Workers' Party expects them to be mentioned and described in the expected Energy Communication, which we now know will come on 11 June.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2101	In this case, proposals have been made for the government to put forward a strategy to ensure that the petroleum industry and the Norwegian research communities continue their leadership in technology development, thus ensuring that the industry remains a driving force in Norway in the future. Right-wing agrees that for many years to come the oil industry will be important for future value creation and good income for our welfare society. That's something we, among other things. make visible in our annual allocations for petroleum research, which are still at a high and stable level. We also know that oil companies themselves invest in research and development. The supplier industry does the same to strengthen both its business development and its competitiveness. All of this suggests that the industry has a good starting point for future value creation. Proposals are also made for the establishment of a new DEMO 2000 facility and it is proposed to provide a greater share of aid instead of loans. Here we fully agree with the Council of State, which points out in its letter of reply that government appropriations should only trigger the activity and provide risk relief. Petroleum industry has served Norway well for the past 50 years and has given us a well-being that most people in other countries can only dream of. And even though we know that the need for oil will diminish once in the future, we have also been in the Right that there will be a need for oil for many years to come, and that the industry is part of the solution to convert us into a low-carbon society. It's a conversion that large parts of the industry themselves are involved in. We are looking forward to the Landfill Communication on long-term value creation from Norwegian energy resources to be provided in a short time. It will also explain how both Norwegian research environments and the petroleum industry can drive future value creation in a low-carbon society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2116	Last week I was the case rapporteur for a representative proposal from the Red House. I said to him that although the decision on the matter is negative, the Committee is very positive both in its comments and in its intention. Anyway, I got the mouth of the representative from Red, but I'm still sitting with the same feeling in this case, that here's the broad consensus. With a few honourable exceptions – one exception so I had signed up to the list of speakers – the Committee joined in on the content of the proposal and on the importance of predictability of petroleum research. I would also like to thank the Council of State for her response, which is a continuous tribute to the petroleum industry and an understanding of its importance to our society. We look forward to the big business message on the future value creation of Norwegian energy resources and how we will ensure that Norwegian research environments and the petroleum industry can be the driving force for future value creation. Petroleum activity is Norway's second largest industry. It has given us great value creation, income, large investments and thousands of jobs. Although we see a shift out in the world and the demand for alternatives to oil and gas is increasing, the demand for oil and gas is going to last a long time – even if some people both hope and believe otherwise. The technological developments in the sector have been crucial for this sector to continue to lead in Norway, and also among the highest in the global context. Research has been crucial both to new findings, to high cost savings, to new technologies, to smaller emissions and to higher profits. What is absolutely crucial is the transfer of knowledge that we see happening in society today. Technological development in one sector provides solutions in other sectors. We see it in renewable energy, we see it in marine, health and transport. Therefore, it is particularly important in a society that is faced with transformations, that we provide our main and most forward-looking industry with predictability and security for further investment in petroleum research. It is therefore important to facilitate the management of the sector for both further operations and to contribute to migration. I also want to address our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2139	Then the representative Terje Halleland addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2144	The case rapporteur argued that we are unable to get a green shift without the competence and capital of Norwegian oil and gas. What kind of magic is what they have in Sweden? What makes Sweden one of the leaders in green conversion and green knowledge development? What are the Danes doing? Are they investing in oil and gas because they are going to be world leaders in the wind? Is it building up more knowledge about how to trick – right or left, down in pipe, horizontal, tracking – and different geological models that will give us a green shift? That logic is, if I have to say it, very strange. We don't get any more green by investing maximum in gray. The annual budget for petroleum research is approximately 400 million. kr, as far as I've got, and that money could be significantly better spent on what we know we're going to need in the future – according to the analyses from the IAEA, according to the analyses from the European energy environments, and according to the analyses of the world's leading financial environments, such as Bloomberg, and Carney – and even Wood Mackenzie are starting to turn there. To the EU again: we need to look a little bit beyond our own navel and see what happens around us. Is it true that Europeans are playing hard on research into petroleum and fossil energy? - No, I'm not. The world's largest research programme is Horizon Europe. It's approx. 100 B.C.E. EUR – 1 000 billion. Norwegian Krone – to be used for research and innovation. How much of it goes to petroleum? How much of that goes to gas? It's not even visible. Instead, they have launched five major missions, where I sit as a board member in one of them, namely Climate adaptation and social transformation. That's what's going to be pustility hard, along with hundreds of zero-emission cities by 2030, but also cancer. It is a separate ‘mission’ called Conquering Cancer: mission possible. Health research needs more money. Water research needs more money. They also call it Mission operative – how to restore the sea and water, and not least the soil, how to restore the ruined land mines and rebuild carbon stocks in the earth, which suck it down from the atmosphere. The problem is that research on petroleum typically only produces effects in ten years from new funds that are now being invested. It's a long "delay". It does not help research on faster horses or better cameras for films when there are new technologies taking over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2155	First, I would like to say that I believe the representatives of the Progress Party are asking good questions and addressing an important topic. The Solberg government has spent between 310 and 389 million. kr per year for petroleum research, if we ignore the package of measures against covid-19. These public appropriations are directed at both the supply industry, the institute sector and the academia. In addition, oil companies invest a lot in research and development on Norwegian soil. Oil companies' own R & D efforts are estimated at 3 to 4 billion. kr annually and varies, of course, with economic fluctuations and oil prices. Thus, the industry's efforts are significantly greater than that of the state and are about equivalent. 90 pst. of the amount. The total R & D effort gives us a good starting point for future value creation. Knowledge and advanced technology are a prerequisite for safe, environmentally friendly and cost-effective activity on the base. In addition, petroleum research contributes to a very important transfer of technology and competence to other sectors of our economy. Let me mention two examples: Geological competence is essential for CO 2 management, which is again required for the production of natural gas hydrogen. Potential extraction of marine mineral resources also depends on this competence. Drones and self-propelled underwater vessels are increasingly used for the maintenance and inspection of marine installations. They are also used for environmental monitoring and monitoring of ecosystems and will play an important role in monitoring marine wind farms. To maximise the value of R & D activities in the petroleum sector for society, we have a comprehensive national technology strategy, OG21. This is a cooperation between authorities, businesses and research communities. The strategy provides advice on how research efforts should be structured and prioritised. It is now being revised and will be completed in November. Otherwise, I would like to explain and elaborate on the broad lines of research policy in the context of the Single European Act presented on 11 June. I will continue to work to ensure that petroleum research has stable conditions. It is important for the use of resources on the base and has a high transfer value to other industrial activities such as hydrogen, CCS, marine minerals and sea wind. It is also important for the further development of a mature base and the development of technologies and methods, until eventually the closure and removal of installations, in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2177	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2183	Last week, the International Energy Agency issued a new report stating that if the world is to achieve the goal of limiting global temperature increase to a maximum of 1.5 degrees, no new oil and gas fields can be opened after 2021. Does the Council of State think that the conclusions of the International Energy Agency mean that we need to think differently about petroleum research in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2188	As I was also involved in my post, I believe that much of the research done in the field of petroleum is very important for other things that we should also do – for example. CCS, sea wind or marine bottom minerals. So it's not just about petroleum. It's also part of building bridges to the new, the second, that we're going to live off in the future. I think we would, on the contrary, do ourselves a bear service if we were to cut down on that research and not put it in a holistic perspective. It is also good to mention that what is the main priority of the OG21 strategy is climate and environment. It's number one of the things you're going to work out, and it's also true in petroleum research. We have the low-emission centre and other examples of doing a lot of good in this research that is good from a climate perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2195	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 21st Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2214	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2221	Once again, we are able to discuss wind power here in Stortinget. This time, it is Red's proposal, where they suggest that the Storting should ask the government to re-apply its decision to extend the deadline for the State-owned wind power plant. First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good management. It is worth noting that, in this case, the deadline for the start-up of wind power plants at Øfjellet in Nordland, a local Wefsn municipality has managed this wind power plant at Øfjellet for three times, the last time after the local elections in 2019. The municipality has always been in favour of the measure. This means that this concrete wind farm has local connection It is also worth noting that during the management of the committee, this matter has come to the ministry in the form of a complaint, sent to the department on 10 May. She is therefore now in charge there. That means that this case is now in process in the department. The size is from time to time invited to take this type of decision that has been put on the table here today, and it raises some principal administrative issues to which the Committee, through its Committee's comments, wishes to make the Storting aware. All parties in such a case have the right to have the matter clarified in an administratively good way, which we have repeated from this pulpit several times. Furthermore, Stortinget should be careful to handle matters at this level. There is, therefore, a joint committee which suggests that this is not agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2236	As the rapporteur was involved, this plant has been treated three times by the municipality of Wefsn, the last after the local elections in 2019. The Labour Party has had contact with the local rapporteur, and they are very concerned that this should be a problem. They have found that there is broad local political outreach about the project, and the production it will provide will have enormous importance in providing sufficient renewable energy to the aluminium plant. Alcoa's aluminiumworks are the cornerstones of the Mos Sea. The wind farm is one of Norway's largest, and then we also know that there is resettlement in the area. We see that it has been challenging to reach an agreement on how this should be ensured, and that they have not reached agreement with the complaints that have been made about it. The move should take place over a short period of time, and it should be possible to find a unified solution. The working party is clear that wind turbines shall have a wide local anchorage. It has this plant. The size has also adopted clear guidelines for the handling of complaints. It shall ensure independence, professionalism and predictability. So the Labour Party does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2245	The progress party has been clear on the issue of wind power for a long time. Many times in recent years, both I and other representatives of the Progress Party have said clearly what we think about windmills. We believe it is not appropriate to build wind turbines in which the local population in the municipality in which they are being built is opposed. We have put forward proposals to stop the development of wind turbines that have been brought before the courts, and we are the only party that says no to a large-scale electrification of the base, which will mean increased demand and more expansion of wind power. The propulsion party is therefore the only party that says no to the driver behind wind power. Last summer, there was also a wind power unit on Stortinget, and the Progress Party was able to take advantage of several demands to tighten in, among others. local acceptance, cut of subsidies, guarantee of clean-up, stricter concession regime, start-up requirements, etc., etc. With that policy, I believe that nine out of ten wind turbines will be stopped. But that means that when the tenth wind power plant comes, we can't put away the same argument, because it has to be an overall argument, so that one of them is also allowed. We say we should listen to the municipality. In this specific case, the municipality has said yes three times, even after the 2019 elections. Then I am glad that the NVE and the department have said no to very many wind turbines where it is no longer locally accepted, and it comes, among other things. because the Progress Party made their demands last summer. There are several wind turbines that have no longer been locally accepted. It's not appropriate to build them out. Local acceptance is a prerequisite for building wind power, and where they no longer have it, we believe that it is the basis for not building it. But what's the jumping point for us is that it's locally accepted, and we think it's in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2258	The centre party has been and is occupied by the local self-government on wind power issues. This is precisely why we have been promoting a number of proposals in the last years of this room on the subject, including: on the local veto of the municipalities to say no. In this regard, I would like to stress that local politicians in the municipality of Wefsn have expressed that there is broad local support for this project, and that the local government in Wefsn has, on several occasions since 2014, been in favour of the concession at Öffjellet. So in Web, there is a positive attitude towards the wind farm, and the concession area has also been restricted, so that the very eyeball itself is not affected to such an extent. The site will therefore not be visible from the city. The status of the project now is that all of the roads are finished, all of the cables are laid, and in April/May, or now during the process, transport and configuration of the turbines are also in progress, and they are put into production on an ongoing basis. As I understand it, at local level there is a broad political majority who still support the development, and who have supported both the extension of the concession period and the postponement of the start-up period, and that there is also a positive attitude towards this project. I would also like to point out that the project has come a lot further than the proposer seems to be, and that there has been a downscaling of the project that spares the mountain. The Central Party therefore believes that it would be in direct conflict with local democracy to support this proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2269	The vote will be taken at the next voting time. The debate on substance is closed. 22 goes on after the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2295	All in all, seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, from Trond Giske on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 6 and 7, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the setting up of a special investigation commission to identify racism in Norway, both historical and current, with particular attention to structural racism, and to propose new measures. The Commission must consist of persons with professional competence in the field, including researchers, as well as members with a minority background. The Commission must be given a long time perspective and be mandated to commission new research.’.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to include the term ‘racism’ in the Training Act § 9 A-3.’ The Greens and Reds have been alerted to support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2335	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1–5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for greater information on the law on discrimination, its enforcement and where assistance can be sought in individual cases, against groups that experience discrimination.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with civil society actors, is asked to establish several ‘roadways’ schemes based on the model of Rosa competence and Jewish guides/stiffs.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: "The government is either asking the government to set up its own research centre, to set up a long-term research programme or to increase research on the theme of racism and discrimination." Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure increased competence in the field of racism in teacher training.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government is asking the government to lower the threshold for the withdrawal of the grant due to grounds of discrimination referred to in Section 186 of the Criminal Act.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2382	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Olav Urbø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the country’s schools, after the coronary apathy, welcome youth organisations, cultural and sporting organisations to the schools, so that schools can be secured as an important recruitment venue for voluntary youth work, and to enable students to participate democratically and to take decisions on different directions in the voluntary work.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to increase the level of basic free support for the children’s and youth organisations in proposals for the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to initiate cooperation between the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the actors organising the voluntary youth organisations in order to set up a plan for the role of youth organisations in reopening society.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2430	All in all, seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Olav Urbø on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4-7, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-7, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to propose 80 pst at the latest before the submission of the State budget for 2022. State funding of the crisis centre offer through earmarked funds.’» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose to amend Section 2 of the Crisis Centres Act in order to introduce requirements for sufficient proximity to the nearest crisis centre offer, so that geographical coverage is in line with and further regulates the crisis centre offer as a low threshold offer.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose to amend Section 2 of the Crisis Centre Act to introduce requirements for lucky day crews.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose the introduction of a general regulatory home in the Crisis Centre Act and to lay down a quality standard to further regulate: (a) implementation of the requirement of physical separation; b) competence requirements, including pediatric competence; (c) the length of the stay at the emergency centres must be adapted to the time it takes to provide the aid subject to violence and the necessary assistance for re-establishment; d) the content of the follow-up during the re-establishment phase.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2487	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the male crisis centre offer and to return to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: "The government is asking the government to make sure that the Sámi population crisis centre is improved and to provide appropriate information on the size of the population." Proposal No 3 reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the crisis centres cannot demand special pay for the service. There shall be no exemption for any cost of food.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2578	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2588	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2600	In the course of the debate, a total of 41 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Runar Seestad on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 2-12, from Bengt Rune Strifeldt on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 13–33, from Bengt Rune Strifeldt on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 34 to 40, from Sandra Borch on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 41, from Bengt Rune Strifeldt on behalf of Right, Party of Advancement, Left and Christian People's Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 34 to 40, from the Central Party. Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose amendments to the Law on Motorised Movements in Land and Watercourses so that municipalities can decide that unbroken roads can be used for recreational use by snowmobiles in general, for some areas/paths, or as part of a loop network without requiring an impact assessment under national law. In order to allow driving, the municipality must obtain the agreement of the landowners/road authority.» Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the rules for motorised off-road movement in such a way that minor off-road operations that would not be easily visible on bareland, such as the removal of stones, trees, etc., may be permitted where necessary, in the same way as for the establishment of out-land excursion/recreational loops.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to amend the rules for motorised off-road movement in order to allow local loop layers to use trampoline and ATV-mounted track during the refurbishment and maintenance of recreational loops for the use of snowmobiles without special permission.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to simplify the processes for setting up snowmobile loops by complying with the provisions of the Law on Planning and Building.’ Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the rules for motorised off-road movement in order to allow municipalities themselves to set time limits for driving licences to their own cabin.’ Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the rules for motorised outland transport so that established ice fishing loops can be maintained if the municipalities so wish.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the motorised movement regulations so that municipalities may decide to authorise the use of ATV on land where outland activities are of serious concern.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2666	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13–33, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with proposals to allow municipalities to manage the law on motor travel in the outland, ensuring full local autonomy over motor travel in the outland.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget for changes to the Law on Motor Traffic in Land and Watercourses § 3 so that motor travel in land and watercourses is not permitted, unless otherwise provided for by the Motor Traffic Act or by law or other law.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with proposals to allow municipalities to apply the Law on Planning and Building where they consider it appropriate to administer the law on motor travel in the countryside. [[Pbl]] The purpose of the plan is already defined in Pbl. and will be transport facilities and other infrastructure.’;» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to clarify that, in the event of the establishment of loops, the municipalities should have no more than direct effects of loops, and not general assessments of the state of the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with proposals to facilitate measures to stimulate increased technology development for snowmobiles.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to open up practice areas for snowmobiles under the Law on Plans and Buildings to be 2500 decks.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The size asks the government to come back in an appropriate manner with proposals to facilitate good training for a belt motorcycle and to use the scooter loops for private exercise throughout the country.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose amendments to the regulations for the use of motor vehicles in the off-road and on ice watercourses so that both reindeer management and the interests of the local population are better taken into account. In this context, stricter requirements must be imposed which oblige reindeer to engage in dialogue and to justify and define specific areas which are reindeer's and reindeer's areas if reindeer are to be closed.» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the regulations for the use of motor vehicles in off-road and on ice watercourses in order to empower the municipality to take decisions on the use of ‘alternative trasé’, without investigation under national law, in the case of loops closed due to the use of ‘alternative trasé’. the reindeer, etc., and that the State administrator becomes the Board of Appeal.’; Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the regulations for the use of motor vehicles in offshore and ice-cold watercourses in order to allow local authorities to exempt themselves from the ban on the use of motor vehicles in offshore and ice-cold watercourses. Local authorities will then be given the power to take decisions and to derogate from the legislation and the State Administrative Board will become the Board of Appeal.’;» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the Regulation for the use of motor vehicles in off-road and on ice watercourses in order to give the municipality the authority to authorise the use of a track to a water within 5 km of the walkway to fish.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal to amend the Law on Motorways in Outland and Waterways so that municipalities can decide that unbroken roads can be used for recreational use by snowmobiles in general, for some areas/roads, or as part of a loop network without requiring an impact assessment in accordance with national regulations. In order to allow driving, the agreement of the landowners/road authority must be obtained.’» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the regulations for the use of motor vehicles in off-road and on ice watercourses so that municipalities can decide that power streets/mastetrases road can be used for recreational use with snowmobiles as part of a loop network without requiring an impact assessment under national law. In order to allow driving, the municipality must obtain the consent of the landowners and the owner of the powerlines.» Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the regulations for the use of motor vehicles in off-road and on ice watercourses in order to enable municipalities to decide that established ballast loops can be used for recreational use with snowmobiles as part of a loop network without the need for impact assessment under national law.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the regulations for the use of motor vehicles in open-air and iced watercourses, so that municipalities decide whether to allow snowmobiles for cabins without a bridge, as long as the privilege holder is the owner of a cabin, or whether to apply for a limited period of time.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the regulations for the use of motor vehicles in off-road and on ice watercourses so that the municipality can, upon application, authorise voluntary emergency services to practise using motorised vehicles during winter off-road, including in protected areas and national parks.’;» Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Storting with amendments to the Law on Motor Travel in Land and Waterways, which authorises the direct entry into the law of the necessary passenger and freight transport to and from permanent residences and in the agricultural, forestry and reindeer industries. Hunting, fishing, fishing and berry fishing are considered to be an industry in this context, provided that the activity is registered in the Register of Units and the Register of Value Added Tax.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose amendments to the regulations for the use of motor vehicles in offshore and ice-cold watercourses so that municipalities can set off snowmobile free-riding areas, under the Law on Plans and Buildings.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the regulations for the use of motor vehicles in offshore and ice-cold watercourses so that municipalities can allow free movement of snowmobiles above the tree line, under the Law on Plans and Buildings.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the regulations for the use of motor vehicles in outland and on ice watercourses so that municipalities can set aside suitable areas for watercross with snowmobiles.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back in an appropriate manner with proposals similar to the Swedish legislation allowing the passage of another man’s land with snowmobiles if no damage occurs, is not a nuisance or a nuisance to the owner of the land, and it is prohibited to drive on forest and agricultural land if it is not obvious that it may occur without risk of damage to the forest or land.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2786	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-12, from the Progress Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for appropriate return with proposals to allow municipalities to manage the law on motor travel in land and watercourses, which contributes to increased local self-government, increased use of natural resources in traditional off-road industries, better facilitate travel, experience tourism, utility and other economic development, and harmonisation of the legislation with Norway’s neighbouring country, and in particular Sweden.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal to amend the law on motor traffic in land and watercourses so that it is the municipalities that are empowered to take decisions and to derogate from the legislation and that the State administrator becomes the Board of Appeal.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget for changes to the Law on Motor Traffic in Land and Watercourses that allow the municipality to grant permits for exercise areas, commercial activities, safaris, etc.’. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the Regulation for the use of motor vehicles in off-road and on ice watercourses so that the municipality can determine in local regulations when the motor vehicle movement ban for individual loops occurs, provided that the driver permits it and reintroduces the reintroduction.’; Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the regulations for the use of motor vehicles in outland and ice-cold watercourses so that municipalities can allow users of recreational loops to use snowmobiles to run off the loops for ice fishing or falls on ice-cold water, so that the applicable Finnmark and Nord-Troms legislation applies to all municipalities in the country.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the regulations for the use of motor vehicles in off-road and on ice watercourses in such a way that minor off-road take-offs which will not be easily visible on barefields, such as the removal of stones, trees, etc., may be permitted where necessary, in the same way as in the establishment of out-land leisure loops.’; Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for amendments to the Regulation for the use of motor vehicles in outdoor and ice-cold watercourses so that the municipality is given authority to authorise driving to the refurbished recreational course in accordance with Section 4a of the Regulation, on a route adopted by the Local Council.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the regulations for the use of motor vehicles in off-road and on ice watercourses so that local loop layers can use trampling machinery and ATV-mounted belts for the construction and maintenance of recreational loops for the use of snowmobiles without special permission.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to amend the Law on Motor Travel in Land and Waterways so that the organised exercises and use of motor vehicles by emergency organisations are directly permitted by law, including in protected areas and national parks.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to amend the Law on Motor Travel in Lands and Waterways so that the preparation of ski jumpers open to general use with motor vehicle/driving machinery is directly permitted by law.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government requests the amendment of the Regulation for the use of motor vehicles in the off-road and on ice watercourses, without prior consultation, so that the Innst intention. 253 L is fulfilled so that the municipality may, on application, authorise the use of motor vehicles for the transport of persons, materials and equipment in connection with the off-road industry. [[2014-2015]] The activity of rental cabins, the commercial harvesting of natural goods, the tourism and tourism industries, the exploration and exploration of mineral resources, etc., shall be considered as an off-road activity, provided that the activity is recorded in the Register of Units and the Register of Value Added Tax.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2855	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose a revision of the law on motor travel in the fields and watercourses with a view to reducing red tape related to the practice of the law and that the law be more closely coordinated with the law on planning and building so that municipalities are given more authority.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2871	There is a vote on proposal No. 41, from the right, from the front of the party, from the left, and from the Christian party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to propose the revision of the law on motorcycling in land and watercourses with a view to increasing local self-government and reducing red tape related to the practice of the law, while respecting nature and outdoor life.’ The Workers' Party and the Centre have announced subsidiary support for the proposal. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2900	The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2919	The Labour Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2938	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to present to the Storting a strategy for the forthcoming implementation of the UN Nature Agreement in Norway prior to the conclusion of the agreement at the United Nations Nature Agreement meeting in 2021. The implementation strategy shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest in the context of the government’s budgetary presentation in October 2021.’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a big message during 2022 proposing a cross-sectoral action plan on how Norway will achieve the objectives of the nature agreement.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2969	The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e2983	We're taking the vote again because more people are saying that they have voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3002	A total of 14 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Runar Seestad on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 3, by Runar Seestad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 4, from Bengt Rune Strifeldt on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 5, 6 and 13, by Gisle Meininger Saudland on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 7-11, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens proposal No 12, from Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 14, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA Mr Sästad has asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3031	The explanation of vote relates to proposal No. 13, from the Progress Party on hook net fishing. The Labour Party will vote subsidiaryly for that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3036	The representative, Mr Seestad, then explained the views of the Workers' Party. There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate and propose to introduce a compensation scheme for those who lose income due to the contractions in marine salmon fishing, inter alia, in order to preserve maritime Sami culture and nutrition.’;» The Progress Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3055	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider other measures to strengthen wild salmon stocks and other forms of reduction in fishing for salmon in Finnmark than through halting the use of hook nets.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3072	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7-11, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for an evaluation of the regulation of marine salmon fisheries, after the 2021 season, in particular in view of the impact on fishing in Finnland and the maritime activities, in order to see whether the regulations have worked as intended and whether they ensure a balance between fishing in the sea and in the water.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for untapped instruments, including measures against farming, to ensure sustainable populations of wild fauna and flora along the coast.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for untapped measures and instruments to ensure maritime culture and nutrition related to marine salmon fishing.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with an assessment of the agreement between Norway and Finland on fishing in the Tanavas trek and the consequences for fishing in Finnish salmon.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Council requests that the Government, in cooperation with, inter alia, those with the Sami and other traditional competence in salmon fishing, carry out an investigation into how the salmon management in Finnmark has been.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3113	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to stop the adopted tightening of sea salmon fishing and to continue the regulation of sea salmon fishing in 2021 in accordance with the same legislation as in 2020.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with proposals for measures to strengthen the management of the wild species, based on the sustainable harvesting of the resource and on the principle of burden-sharing.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3135	There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals for measures to strengthen the management of the wild species also to submit proposals for controlled pre-dator withdrawals in relation to small and vulnerable salmon rivers, so that measures are not exclusively applied to reduced fish.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3150	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size takes note of the proposed reductions in sea salmon fishing for 2021, but asks the government to return to Stortinget no later than in the first quarter of 2022 with an evaluation of the measures and proposals for measures to strengthen the management of wild salmon, based on sustainable resource harvesting and on the principle of burden-sharing.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3165	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to authorise hook net fishing in Finnmark out of the year and to consider other measures to strengthen wild fish stocks and other forms of reduction in sea salmon fishing.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3180	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the tightening up of sea salmon fishing and how they will act in a concrete way for the marine salmon fishermen in the South. Furthermore, the Government is asked to make a modest assessment of applications for dispensation for fishermen who lose a large part of their income without any other possibility.» The Progress Party has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3197	There is a vote on proposal No. 13 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to allow hook net fishing in Finnmark in 2021 and to consider other measures to strengthen wild caught stocks.’ The Workers' Party and the Centre have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3237	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3249	The vote will be taken on Friday 21 May, agenda no. 85.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3262	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Bengt Rune Strifeldt on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to ensure more comprehensive and efficient management of the aquaculture sector by model of the oil and gas sector.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3286	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to prevent small and medium-sized enterprises from being pushed out of the aquaculture industry due to administrative burdens.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3303	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to ensure a more comprehensive and efficient management of aquaculture.’ All other parties have indicated their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3325	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3344	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2-4, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a new and more thorough investigation into the system of supervision for compulsory returns, which includes the independence of the monitoring mechanism, the scope of the monitoring task, the relationship with Frontex and the need for resources to ensure that monitoring is ‘effective’, and to return to the Storting with proposals to achieve this’. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Board of Supervisors of Trandum receives its own budget and secretariat, irrespective of the Foreign Affairs Department of the Police.’; The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3377	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. ‘The Government is asked to ensure the independence of the Board of Supervisors of Trandum by providing for the appointment of members of the Board of Supervisors by the King of State Council following the appointment of a Board of Governors appointed by the Ministry of Justice and Defence and by humanitarian organisations. Furthermore, clear requirements for the competence of all candidates for appointment should be laid down in the Regulation’. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3556	Alternatively, between the Committee's nomination for I New § 107a and proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘New § 107a is replaced by the following: § 107 a Board of Supervisors for Forced Returns and Board of Supervisors for the International Internet of Foreign Affairs Independent Board of Supervisors oversees forced returns, the operation of the International Foreign Service and specially organised accommodation and the treatment of non-residents residing there. The king may make supplementary provisions in accordance with this Regulation.’.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3579	All other parts of I and II and III shall be counted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3590	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3600	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3642	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3652	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3732	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3743	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3755	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Jenny Klinge on behalf of the Centre Party. There is a vote on proposal No. One from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the establishment of a State rescue helicopter base in Tromsø.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3774	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2 and 3 from the Center Party. The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3781	President! I am quite sure that it was the proposals No. 1 and 2 we should support.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3786	Let's check the setting. – Then we are ready to move forward, and we have to vote on each proposal separately. We vote again on proposal No. One from the Center Party. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have expressed support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3802	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to facilitate the operation of the rescue helicopter base in Tromsø by the 330 squadron and the State rescue helicopter service with the helicopter AW101 SAR Queen.’ The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have expressed support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3820	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests until the 330squadron has the capacity to establish presence and preparedness in Tromsø, renting a civil rescue helicopter as a temporary start-up solution as soon as possible.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3850	The centre party has notified subsidiary aid to the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3867	During the debate, Mr Eide put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The majority asks the presidency to investigate and assess an amendment to Section 5 of the NIM Act which ensures that the composition of the board reflects more closely civil society.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3904	It shall be counted against II. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Central Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3918	It's votting over I and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3935	During the debate, Kirsti Leirtrø put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Prop. 151 L Changes to the Road Traffic Act are sent back to the Government’. [[2020-2021]] [[motorsport]] The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e3994	It is voted over in New § 7c. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4008	All other parts of I and II shall be counted. The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4022	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4037	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1-19 and Case No. 29 on today's map. Mr Larsen has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4046	In Case No. 14, if ‘right to try’ for ALS patients, government parties choose to support the proposal of the Centre Party No. 3 and 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4055	Case No. 1–9 is the second reading of laws and applies to legislative acts 106 to 114. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4102	It is contested in the third sentence of the first paragraph of Section 1. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4118	President, I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4123	There are several people who have voted incorrectly, so we will take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4136	The rest of I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4146	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4160	The legislative decision will be taken until the second time treatment is given at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4201	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4211	The legislative decision will be taken until the second time treatment is given at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4223	In the course of the debate, a total of 20 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Siri Gåsemyr Staalese on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, the proposals No 3-7, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 8 and 9, by Willfred Nordlund on behalf of the Centerpartiet the proposals No 10-19, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 20, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to propose that the 10-minute principle be incorporated into the purpose paragraph of the Planning and Building Act.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4258	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10-19, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The government asks the government to propose the «law on the working environment of children», which requires all schools and kindergartens outdoors, including size, quality, content, sunlight, air quality and nature. All new projects should require an estimated minimum of 25 square metres of outdoor area per child in kindergartens and an estimated 30 square metres per student in primary schools. In the densely populated parts of cities, the requirement should be at least an estimated 18 square metres per student in primary school and an estimated 15 square metres per child in kindergartens. For existing schools and kindergartens which do not meet these requirements, municipal action plans shall be established to meet the requirements.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and come back with proposals for a national action plan for the upgrading of outdoor areas in existing schools and kindergartens. The action plan should be based on the quality requirements proposed by the ‘children’s work environment law’ of the Innst. 476 S [[2020-2021]] Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and come back with proposals for a grant and/or loan scheme, for example through the Husbank, to finance municipal strategic land purchase in urban press areas, life-threatening urban areas and urban development areas.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the leisure card scheme is changed to a card that can be used for the activities the child or the young person chooses’.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the extension of the leisure card pilot scheme to a national leisure card scheme for children and young people aged 6 to 18 years and for an extension of the basic amount for the age range 13 to 18 years.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a subsidy scheme for municipalities to provide good and safe housing and growth environments in less-favoured areas. In particular, the grant should focus on measures for children and young people.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: «The government asks the government to ensure that the municipal housing allowance for life-threatening urban areas in Oslo and Bergen and others. be extended and established as a separate State grant scheme. The scheme shall apply to all areas under the living conditions, even where there is no territorial effort. The grant shall be directed towards joint ventures, housing laws, organisations and other non-commercial actors.’;» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose legislative and regulatory changes to ensure that the 10-minute principle of public transport is governed by cities and agglomerations.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: «The government is asked to propose the introduction of a mandatory green account for cities as a minimum updated every four years.» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose an amendment to the Planning and Building Act to require a blue-green factor in all urban areas.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4323	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 9, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to pay the cost of extending the leisure card pilot scheme to a national leisure card scheme for children and young people aged 6-18.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to assess the cost of strengthening the lending centres in order to ensure that all children and young people have access to sports and leisure equipment, irrespective of their parents’ income and where they live.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4347	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3-7, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide national statistics on the size, quality and content of the outlying areas for Norwegian schools and kindergartens.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to phase out rubber and plastic tyres in all schools, kindergartens and playgrounds. Asphalt and artificial cover should be replaced as far as possible by natural and non-toxic materials.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a support scheme for upgrading and expanding the outdoor areas of schools and kindergartens.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of lending centres to ensure that all children and young people have access to equipment for sports and leisure activities, irrespective of the income of their parents and where they live.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose a law on nature that, on a large and small scale, will provide permanent protection for areas that are important for outdoors and natural experiences near where people live.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4388	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to implement a national action plan for upgrading the outlying areas of existing schools and kindergartens. The action plan should be based on the quality requirements proposed by the ‘children’s work environment law’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to implement a grant and/or loan scheme, for example through the Husbank, to finance municipal strategic land purchase in urban press areas, residentially exposed urban areas and urban development areas.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4421	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4441	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to launch as soon as possible a survey of the human rights situation in Norwegian hospitals and in the home services, where residents and users themselves, and their relatives, are sources. The Government is requested to report appropriately to the Storing.’» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4467	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to return to Stortinget with an obliging escalation plan to improve the staffing of the elderly in the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to put in place concrete measures to prevent hospital abuse through good basic staffing and training of management and hospital staff.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4518	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Kari Kjønaas Kjos, on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 2, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3-5, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party Proposal No. 2 was changed during the debate and now reads: ‘The government is asked to reconsider the introduction of ‘right to try’ in Norway. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4544	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to introduce a ‘right to try’ in Norway for ALS disease, dementia and others with severe diagnosis.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4559	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to reconsider the introduction of ‘right to try’ in Norway.’ The Progress Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4576	There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit a plan for the Storting as soon as possible with measures to improve the follow-up, quality and coherence of the services of persons receiving ALS diagnosis, based on the Health DG’s report of 2019.’ The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4593	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 5 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that patients with ALS are given the opportunity to participate in clinical treatment studies and to be evaluated by the Expert Panel on Specialist Health Services.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased funding for clinical research on serious diseases affecting the central nervous system such as ALS, MS and dementia.’ All other parties have indicated their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4622	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Kari Kjöna Kjos, on behalf of the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that MS patients who are not offered stem cell treatment in Norway are offered to do so abroad, funded by the State.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate Norwegian MS patients to become more participants in research projects on stem cell treatment in the home and abroad, where the cost is covered by public funds.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4646	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4651	We're correcting the number of votes. The result is that 72 representatives voted against the proposals and 15 voted in favour. This does not mean that the proposals have been accepted. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4663	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4682	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Carl-Erik Grimstad on behalf of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party proposal No 3, from Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 4, from Åshild Bruun-Gundersen on behalf of the Progress Party The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4707	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the law on changes in the Health Personnel Act I In Law 2 July 1999 No. 64 on health professionals etc. [[Health Act]] It shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 48, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: The authorisation system under this Act includes the following groups of health professionals: 1st ambulance works 2. pharmacologist 3rd audio graph 4. bioengineer 5. ergoterapeut 6. foot therapist 7. physiotherapist 8. health professional work 9. the Secretary for Health; 10th auxiliary caretaker 11th midwife 12. chiropractor 13. clinical nutrition physiologist 14th Blank 15. Logoped 16th naprapate 17. care activities 18th Opticist 19. orthopaedic engineer 20. orthoptist 21. osteopate 22. paramedics 23rd Perfusionist 24. provisional protection eye 25th Psychologist 26. radiograph 27. Pharmacy of prescription 28. Nurse 29th Dental Secretary 30th Dentist 31st Dentist 32. dental technician 33. Caregiver II The Act shall enter into force on 1 July 2021’.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4807	My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4812	We're correcting the number of votes. The result is that 73 representatives voted in favour of the Committee's position and 15 representatives voted in favour of the Procedural Party's proposal. – The Committee’s position is thus favourable. There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a proposal for authorisation for manual therapists and then to carry out a consultation on such a proposal before the Grand Duchy obtains an overall case for authorisation for new professional groups for treatment’. The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4831	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, Left and Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks — as soon as a final decision has been taken on the professional requirements to be authoritative and the technical solutions are in place — to propose the necessary amendments to the Health Care Professional Act with a view to granting authorisation to naprapates, osteopates, logo pediatricians and paramedics’. The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4848	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to follow up its own consultation proposal for authorisation for new occupational groups under the Health Care Professional Act once the consultation period has expired and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner». The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4868	My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4873	We're correcting the number of votes. The result is that 45 representatives voted against the proposal of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party and 43 representatives voted in favour. The proposal is therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4885	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Tore Hagebakken on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the zero option is explored as a real alternative to the development of the Hospital Inland HF before deciding on the future hospital structure in corporate meetings.’ [[‘target image’]] The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4918	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of existing patient services and the professional environment in both somatic and mental health protection in the Inland HF hospital until a new hospital structure has been adopted and realised, in order to ensure the stabilisation and recruitment of health professionals.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to provide hospital capacity in the Inland Hospital to meet the future needs of the population and to prevent the healthcare company from planning future hospital capacity on the basis of a premise of increased efficiency, cut daily treatment and large task transfer to the municipalities.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4949	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Morten Stordalen on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 2, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the will of the Storting is followed when the decision-making forum takes its decisions for those who fall under the category of rare diseases.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e4973	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks for an alternative payment model for treatments used in the specialist healthcare service, where the payment is calculated from the observed health benefit after the application of the treatment.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5009	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Center Party The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5031	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that health businesses are required in their development plans for future structure and services to make visible and focus on reducing climate impacts.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5048	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a climate plan for the health sector, with the objective of a climate-neutral health sector, and to present it as a matter for the Stortinge.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a health budget and to report on it in the State budget. The climate budget must include emissions from operation, procurement, transport and construction.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5072	There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a climate plan for the hospital sector with the objective of a climate-neutral sector and to provide it to the Stortinge appropriately.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5091	Let's go to case No. 29, which is Unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5172	Purification is a central part of the basis of Southern Sami culture. Already, sewerage has been pushed from many sides through watercourse regulation and other land conflicts. The Jillen-Njärke reinbeete district is one of the districts that experience extra hard pressure from all teams with many interventions. The enormous wind power plant currently under construction is an attack on reindeer management and southern Sami culture. The expansion should never have been started, but unfortunately the Progress Party, which has Norway's record in granting permits for wind turbines, made provision for concession to Øfjellet development. The possibilities for the state councils from the Progress Party to turn the case around have been many, but no one has been used. Last summer, the Stortinget took a unanimous decision not to grant a deadline for the start-up of approved wind turbines. Unfortunately, the majority of the Grand Duchy has repeatedly looked through its fingers at the follow-up to this decision. Therefore, the NVE has set a deadline for the development of the Oyfjellet. The matter is now with the Council of State, and it is allowed to hope that the Council of State will fall to a different conclusion. SV has always been clear that last summer’s decision by Storting must be followed up with clear-cut rejection of requests for a deadline. We are also in this case, and we are therefore going to vote in favour of solving the proposal that has been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5181	The next speaker is Ketil Kjeseth. - He's not in the room. Then is the next Tore Storehaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5186	Now I was in a hurry, but I'm going to give my comments. Both the case-speaker and others have already done their best in the case of the majority, pointing out that this type of appeal decision will enter into the case-by-case procedure that this hall through our legislative competence, in fact through both the energy legislation and the management legislation, has established rules for which should be followed, and which should be done in that way one should do so. The representative who had spoken before me, stressed some of the concerns that are open to difficulty, and that must be weighed down in this matter, simply the concerns of the Southern Sami regions and the reindeer, who have also made their contributions to the complaint process that is going on. There are important and good reasons, but precisely because this kind of concern has to be taken and weighed up against each other, we have created procedures and a management code that needs to be followed. Then I think it's important that it is done in the right place, and so the Christian People's Party will not vote for any of the appeals that are made, but vote in line with the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5195	In June 2020, a unanimous increase decided not to extend the period for the entry into service of wind turbines beyond 31 December 2021. Following this decision, eight wind turbines have applied for deferral. Seven applications have been rejected, while Øfjellet Wind AS has been granted the time limit for starting up until 30 September 2022. The Oyfjellet wind farm is controversial. The concession was granted despite objections from the State Manager in Northern Ireland. Environmental protectioners, the local population and not least reindeer have protested against natural and grazing areas. In the middle of the movement routes to about 2000 pure, 72 wind turbines are now to be built. There are major conflicts between the reindeer district, which have always used the area for reindeer operations, and wind turbines that roll in with disturbing excavators and huge turbines, which will change the area forever. There is a requirement in the concession for the builder to enter into an agreement with Jillen-Njärke Reinbeite district. Such an agreement has not been concluded. The unanimous decision of the Stortinge in June last year was a clear tightening. The major protests against wind turbines across the country were to be heard, and the builders had to complete their projects within the deadline they had already received. It was an attempt to mitigate the conflict around the wind turbines. Nevertheless, NVE Oöffjellet Wind AS gives deferred start-up. Reasons are given in the request from the Oyfjellet with coronary restraints, a lot of snow and demonstrations against development. It is a little strange when Øfjellet Wind's own project manager said to the press about the same time that they were in a good position, considering their own progress plan. NVE could quite well say no to extension of the deadline. They didn't. For seven months, the Oyfjellet Wind continued to work before they received an answer to their application. In the reply to which they were suspended, the work done over the seven months, which is used as a basis for granting deferred entry into service, is contrary to the NVE's other routine. This shows that, unfortunately, the builder can rage nature at his own expense and risk while processing applications and complaints. When an application is granted because the builder has come so far, it is only building on the road — there is only a greater chance of being put into service. A unanimous Storting said in June 2020 that no deadline should be set for the start-up of wind turbines. A unanimous majority should now also support the Rødt proposal, which ensures that this unanimous decision is followed up and complied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5206	With that, the representative Björn Moxnes mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5211	It is important to say that we are now dealing with a more fundamental case as to whether the Storting should intervene in a complaint case – and not as to the substance of the case and the concession case. This is an authority we have added to the NVE and the ministry, and it should be there. About Stortinget has said about 31 December this year and the start-up of turbines, that is another matter. Several have been involved in the local veto or where this is local. Yes, it's a broad majority who want to expand the Oyfjellet, but there are some small parties that are not represented in that municipality, for example. Left, which is locally opposite but which is not represented. So there's a bunch of voices that don't get to be expressed. We have heard a lot of voices outside the Storting today, and there are many from the southern interests and the reindeer that are opposed to the expansion. Speaking of the point of fact, there is one of the issues that is the subject of the complaint. There are some interests here that it is also important to address, and that are not completely represented in the posts that are held here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5224	IEA’s new report, Net Zero by 2050, struck down as a bomb in Norwegian public. In one week, the whole premise for Norwegian oil and climate policy was turned upside down. IEA, formerly known as the Norwegian oil industry knights in black armor, now determines that all countries must stop looking for more oil and gas now, if we are to have any hope of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees. The report also confirms something else, which has so far received less attention, namely that we need to build a lot of new renewable energy to meet the 1.5 degree target. But we have to do this in a sensitive, adaptable and natural way, not literally by blasting, digging and plunging through vulnerable culture, indigenous peoples and nature. We don't solve the climate crisis by destroying nature. For too many years, Norwegian politicians have taken too much light on natural disasters. Too many times, wind power has been granted to areas of pristine nature, with Sami reindeer and important open air areas. The exercise is just one, but a very important, example. We therefore support the Red's proposal today. That's why we also now have a great popular resistance on both the island, the island of Haram and many other places, to a green industry that is basically on the nature and climate side of the world that needs this in order to phase out the dirty force. It is fully possible to expand some wind power on land while preserving both nature and Sami reindeer, but then maximum production must not be the only guiding parameters with low costs. When we destroy nature, we destroy for ourselves. Therefore, the Green Party believes that future wind power concessions on land in Norway should be reserved for areas with existing intervention and infrastructure. What does that mean in practice? Well, we can, for example, asks the company Greenstat about that. They are highly committed to projects that could potentially create much less conflict than the larger wind turbines. Often there are three to six turbines with a total height of between 70 and 110 metres in industrial areas, in a port area, at motorsport centres, waste facilities, etc. Greenstat plans to expand such projects in the order of 1 TWh over the next few years. They themselves estimate that the potential in Norway will be 5–10 TWh. Otherwise also sea wind, and after each floating sea wind, is a good alternative. Such wind power projects monger. Combined with a large sea wind effort, wind power on land that does not destroy nature can be part of Norway’s contribution to doing what IEA says is necessary to limit heating to 1.5 degrees, combined with a new and strong commitment to energy efficiency improvement and to end the waste with force. It requires a completely different wind power policy than today, and of course a completely different oil policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5239	Applications for an extended period of time for entry into service are dealt with under the Energy Act and the NVE has delegated the power to deal with and decide upon such requests. If the decision of the NVE is appealed, it is my department that is the Board of Appeal. In this specific case, the NVE gave 16 February of this year Öfjellet Wind nine months' suspended period. The decision of the NVE was then appealed, and the complaint was sent to my department on 10 May. I am not going to go into this today to assess whether Öfjellet Wind should be allowed a time limit for putting into service or not, or to discuss whether there are any particular circumstances relevant to the administrative framework to be applied in this respect. These are matters that I am required to assess when my department is dealing with the specific complaint we have now received. However, I would like to point out that I have explained the government’s understanding and follow-up to the Stortingen request decision of 19 June 2020, which was dealt with in the Stortingen in December last year. The size agreed to this, and I will base the Storting's assessments on dealing with cases of extension of time for wind turbines, also in the case of the Ömweljellet. The most important thing for me is to find out that this matter has a very important principle side. In fact, the representative proposal implies that Stortinget instructs the Ministry of Oil and Energy in dealing with a specific complaint. This raises fundamental questions of a constitutional and administrative nature. In the ultimate sense, it can put me in the dilemma of whether I should take a legal decision or respect my parliamentary responsibility towards the Stortinget. It's going to be completely wrong. I think we're all well served to hold on to a fundamental distribution of power where the Storting adopts the laws and the government is responsible for the exercise in line with these. Finally, it is absolutely legitimate to have a different view of wind power, including in the case of concrete projects. But it is not Storting's job to process individual cases. That is why I am also pleased that an overall committee is opposed to the proposal of the representative and that the matter is followed by normal proceedings in line with the legislation in force.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5254	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5260	NVE took seven months to process the application, and in the meantime Oyfjellet Wind continued his work. Since the NVE responded to Öyfjellet Wind’s request, it was justified by the exemption provisions which state that ‘if the concessionaire has come a long way in the construction works, but unforeseen conditions [...] prevent the entry into service in time, the NVE may, however, extend the period of operation’. So the NVE's yes to the application was given on the basis of an extension made by the builder for his own account and risk after submitting the application, and after the project manager in the media had actually said that there had not been any special problems due to the coronary restraints. This process raises the question of whether it is possible to obtain a kind of forgiveness more easily than a permit that builds up. If the application is based only on the examination of the application, the work will later be used as an argument for a yes to the application. Is that how we want the administration to be?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5267	As I was in my post, this is now a decision that has been appealed to the OED. It is now being treated in my department. I can therefore not go into the details of the treatment we are now going to give this matter in the department today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5272	This is probably a more fundamental question about how we can expect management to deal with these kinds of applications, which means that there is an exception to the fact that concessionaires have come a long way in the construction work, but that unforeseen circumstances can hinder the start-up in time. The question of whether such a provision can be understood is that it only takes a long enough time to deal with a case of this type, and it is enough to be built on waiting for an answer, which increases the likelihood of getting an approval of the project. Will the Council of State, on a principle basis, consider whether a procedure of this kind has been deceived or not? And do you also understand that the parties involved can respond to a procedure of this kind?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5279	I do not believe that this is a purely fundamental question that the representative draws up, because he relates it specifically to a matter I now have to deal with. I can't go here at Stortinget's pulpit and go into the details of the complaint we are now going to have. But what I can say – as I also mentioned in the pulpit in place – is that in connection with the state budget, I explained how we follow up, and how we interpret the decision that was made in Stortinget on 19 June last year. There we also explicitly say that it will be possible to give a limited period of time – of course, each case has to be assessed separately – if you are in a force majeure situation, if you have been imposed concession orders that are outside the control of the builder and that they will not be able to fulfil in time, or if you are in need of time as a result of actions or other measures that have been implemented to prevent their realisation. That's the general one.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5284	It is true that principles for administration are established, which are then, of course, applied to individual cases. It is then possible for a State Council in Stortinget to give an assessment of these principles, without thus proceeding from the pulpit here. One of the principles is that there is an exception to the fact that if the concessionaire has come a long way in construction work, it may itself increase the likelihood of an extended period. Then, as has been explained in many rounds here, we are in a strange situation here, because these force majeure considerations used by the Council of State have well been expanding themselves – public and media – said that there is no presence. If that type of force majeure relationship is not present, is there any basis, in principle, for us to state the force majeure relationship as an argument for postponing a deadline?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5291	I hear that the representative repeats that this is a fundamental discussion, but that is not, all the time it is associated with the matter. So here I cannot process that question or decide whether it has been applicable in this case. It will be part of the procedure that we are now going to carry out in the ministry. So I don't think I need to repeat once again what I said earlier about what was the basis of the state budget, which also the Stortinget decided and agreed to, but it will be leading for all matters, also for those who ask for the deferred deadline in the future, both in this case and in other cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5298	The Council of State also has another request for a time limit for processing on its table. It's in Trøndelag and it's connected to the development of the Inner Mountain. I will not ask the Council of State what she will conclude with in that matter, but I ask the Council of State if she has any idea when there will be a decision in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5303	We're working as fast as we can with all of these things, but no, I don't have a concrete time span for that, which I can answer with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5308	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor below also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5315	First, I have to say a thousand thanks to the Committee for the way they have handled this matter, and that they have taken account of local opinions and circumstances around it. Then I hear that the reindeer is pushed in front of me in this matter. I was born and raised in the Lake of Mosque. I've gone up in Øfjellet – I live in the lake today – and I can say with my hand on my heart that I've never met in this area. When we started discussing wind power in the municipality, two areas were applied for: Reinfjellet and Öfjellet. Then the reindeer industry said that if they kept the Reinfjellet, it was perfectly okay that windmills should be installed on the Øfjellet, because they were not there. This was the result – Reinfjellet got no, and Öfjellet got yes. And a little bit of a fact: these windmills aren't actually set up on the Oervelellet; they're set up behind, on a mountain that we call the Vesterfjellet. From Øfjellvarden to the nearest windmill, it's 3,000 meters. This is snaufjell, it's over 800 meters above sea level, and there's no particular grazing area. As I mentioned, it has not been clean there, but it suddenly appeared in 2018. Then pure transport was made to the mountain by truck and ferry. Why can't you just speculate? When Bioforsk and Nordlandsforschung surveyed the areas, they wrote in the report that they recommended a maximum of 298 animals on winter pastures in the area. I think it's a shame, a real sin, that Counterwind Norway pushes the reindeer industry forward and makes claims that don't stand up. The sewerage industry is an important industry for us in North Norway, and I think, unfortunately, that this polarization makes worse, and that the industry gets a worse reputation than it deserves. This extension has been adopted several times by the local government in the municipality of Wefsn, last November 2019, i.e. after the local elections. I myself participated in this election campaign, and there were very few who asked questions about wind power development on the Vesterfjellet. This is a project that the municipality has been positive to the whole time, and when there has also been local elections between the votes, to put it simply, I think it is to waste our time at all discussing this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5334	The matter will probably be discussed, even if it shouldn't be here right now, in this case. But first, I would like to thank the Minister of Oil and Energy for a very fundamental contribution, which clearly puts the responsibility right – that it is a complaint case, and it is a complaint procedure that lies in the department. That is where the decision is to be taken on the decisions taken earlier by the Storting. This case and the examination here and now does not affect that decision at all. This is a discussion for Stortinget, but without being able to influence the department's decision. For many years we have worked against this project on Øfjellet, along with the Left in the Wefsn, and there is one thing I would like to see not to have moved on. This is one of the concessions that shouldn't have been given. First of all, of course, it is the protection of the landscape, but also the reindeer. Yes, it is true that there has been a local agreement on development, and it was also sent back, prior to the local elections in 2019, for a new assessment by the local government. However, when it comes to making its assessment, I think it is important to say that one is, of course, the extended period of entry into service and the very clear decision that the Stortinget has made that there should be a clear limit here, but also that the assessment of the importance of reintroduction in the area and the importance of southern Sami culture must be part of the backbone of the decision to be taken. But that decision is the department that has to take. It's not supposed to be taken here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5342	I want to make a clarification as to what the Storting has decided. It is quite right that last June we said no to new concessions under the current legislation and that no deadline should be allowed. It was last June. But during the state budget, the Workers' Party was involved in a majority comment where we said that there should be opportunities for an exception, especially where there was a strong local desire and a anchoring of the projects themselves, and where the reason why the cases did not have the progress that was desirable was reasons that were not due to the builder. The background for us to make that majority comment was when we were visiting Raggovidda in Berlevåg, which was totally dependent on establishing major wind power plants to establish new business in Berlevåg in Finland with the production of green hydrogen or green ammonia. I now experience the same thing with the Eyepiece. There is a strong local desire to achieve this, also linked to industrial workplaces and mainly the aluminium mill. It's the administration that decides whether the reasons are good enough. We don't, but we've at least been involved in giving an opening for exceptions in those kinds of cases. At least I know well about the two examples that I have explained to you now. In the future, the Labour Party also believes that many of the new wind turbines will be linked to existing developed industrial areas or up to other infrastructure, and not in pristine nature, which has been a lot of them now in the start-up phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5351	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 22nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5368	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5375	There are few that are more beautiful than Norway's national parks. Standing on the top of the Round castle and looking out in the brilliant sun, the national feeling makes to swell a little in the chest, or it to simmer down the Folgefonna on skis, in shorts, with the Galdhøpig in the back and Glittertind in the eye hook, and then put the teeth in a Brimí dinner down in Lom in the afternoon, or to dip the toes in the summer hot sea at the end of the world and eat Norway's best fish soup and then set sail against the Færder lighthouse. It's life itself. In addition, all the areas of protection, where my personal favorite is Vega on the Helgeland coast. Not only because Vega in itself is amazingly beautiful with its hollows and cutlets and birdhouses, but also because from Vega you can see the coach, Norway's most beautiful island. It's a little bit of a hit on Helgeland. Our 47 national parks and 3,170 protected areas hold some of the best in Norway. It is good to see that they develop in a sustainable way both economically and in terms of nature protection. That is why I am pleased that the government is looking after more national park and protection area managers, and that oversight is given to the specific areas of protection. The conversion of an area into a national park does not mean, as some have claimed, that everything is banned, but the area is to be used for outdoor activities and other activities that do not harm the protection values. You can go for a walk, fishing, hunting, skiing, swimming, even riding a boat, or enjoying a better meal, whether it's made on the good old primeus inside the wide or at one of the good serving places at the national park centers – or at Brimi himself, of course. However, we need to ensure the information and profiling of national parks and other protected areas, ensure that they are of high quality and in line with the visitation strategies. More have to get their eyes up for what the parks have to do. All national parks should therefore have up-to-date visitor strategies, and the visiting centres should be further developed as important intermediaries of Norwegian nature and protected areas. What's great is that the government is actually already working on what the proposers are asking for. One tip is to go into Hardangervidda National Park Centre in Rjukan if you haven't been there already. It's really worth the trip. They have a very unique way of communicating and are now developing a modern digital communication project, which I am very happy to see. I am pleased that both opposition and position are concerned about this, and that the government is already ensuring local ring effects. So I want to wish the Council of State a good trip this summer on his national park tour. I hope he sees as many national parks as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5396	It is easy to join very much of the descriptions that came from the case rapporteur, as well as the setting of the summer trip to the Council of State. It's probably going to be a great experience, because the national parks are really one of the finest in Norway. We've taken care of nature in the real world class, and we take care of it and we own it together. The Labour Party has been working here on the Stortinget for a long time to put in place a supplementary national park plan, so that we can get even more of our areas under this great scheme. Among other things, at Stortinget we have called for – but unfortunately have been voted down – to make Eastmark and the Preikestolen national parks, but it has among other things. We've been with the Council of State party when they were in opposition, so now we believe that we can get something here. Of course, on the part of the Labour Party, we support the initiatives taken by the Council of State in this area. But this matter is about something else. It's about how we can get better local management and membership of our national parks. That's tricked for a lot of reasons. It's not only because you have local ownership, it's the most important success criterion for being able to take care of the national parks in a great way, but it may also be one of the most important things we can do to make the areas better, that we get more things in our national parks. The Labour Party is on two of the proposals today. They are about strengthening the visiting centres and facilitating more value creation and more jobs associated with national parks. Then there is also a proposal that the Labour Party does not vote for, which is about moving state jobs into national parks. When we don't vote in favour of the proposal, it's not necessarily because we're opposed to it. On the contrary, there can probably be many areas where it's right, smart and good to do, and then you should do it. But we believe that as it is now, it is too unclear and diffuse both what jobs are involved and where they are going to move, so a general proposal on what we are not voting for in this round, but it is certainly something I hope both the Council of State and future governments can look at how we can ensure that jobs are as close as possible to national parks.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5405	We join the glory of Norwegian nature and Norwegian national parks. Nature has an important place in the Norwegian People's Party, and that's good. It's probably because we have a long tradition of living in and harvesting nature's resources. At a time when Norwegian districts are struggling with centralisation and negative migration flows, it is important to think again. Many district municipalities, district dwellers and not least businessmen are experiencing increasing pressures to protect the nature that has been used in the past. The Central Party therefore believes that greater care should be taken to ensure that national parks, and not least the protection areas, provide for both economic, cultural, social and environmental value creation. We must ensure the greatest possible degree of local administration, which in turn leads to a greater degree of work being done in the areas where national parks and protected areas are located. It is necessary to stimulate local value creation, business development, viable enterprises and full-time jobs on the basis of the National Parks Administration and the Norwegian National Parks Brand. Through local anchoring, we also create local ownership, identity and pride. It is a prerequisite for a good host, which in turn creates values for both the guests, the community, the businesses and the municipalities where the protection areas are located. Value creation is more than an economic profit for individuals or individual enterprises. It is appropriate to focus on several forms of value creation and through ensuring sustainable development, increasing the value creation of local communities and preserving the values of nature in the long term. For the National Park Municipalities, it will be important for visitors to experience the whole of accommodation, local food and cultural and natural experiences. The tasks and roles of the National Park Communities make it possible for them to become key actors in the implementation of the National Parks of Norway brand. Where we see that protection is well anchored locally, it also has a better basis for standing. But then the big community has to take its share of responsibility. The protection and establishment of national parks requires local participation and local administration. The provision of State jobs related to the protection areas also helps to strengthen the professional and local communities where the protection values are in fact, thus contributing to viable local communities in the future, even though nature has a different role to that it has had in the past. I take this up with me the proposal from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5422	The representative Ole André Myhrvold then drew up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5427	As the former leader of both Nature and Youth and the Nature Conservation Association, I have spent a lot of my time creating new national parks, new protection areas. That is why it is good to hear an article like what we were presented by the case rapporteur here today – a very good one, which describes the value of Norwegian nature and the importance of taking care of it. I want to say that in the last 20 years there have been major changes in Norwegian society in the view of national parks and the protection of nature. Where heavy fighting had to be fought for many years in the past in order to make an impact on the establishment of a national park, this is more likely to meet with enthusiasm and cheer around. I remember very well when former right-wing politician Erling Lae, who was the county manager in Vestfold, went out and complained about why it was only the Norwegian mountain house that would benefit from having national parks. He believed that the coast and the natural areas along the coast also deserved national parks. There was a start on the creation of the Fäder National Park, located in those areas. What we need to do in the future is to take care of this enthusiasm, which we now see around several national parks, by stimulating local activity and jobs linked to national parks. Then I think that the will to take care of nature gets even greater. Therefore, SV supports the proposals submitted in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5436	National parks and other protected areas are valuable in many ways. First of all, they are valuable to nature itself – to the ecosystem, to wildlife, to plant life and to the climate. However, as pointed out in the proposal, these areas also offer opportunities for both economic, cultural, social and environmental value creation – choose to mark within the framework of the nature of the protected areas. Protected areas are an important basis for long-term local and nature-based value creation when managed from a generation perspective and in line with the objective of protection. Our large areas of protection are locally anchored. The Protection Area Board consists of politicians from municipalities and municipalities – and from the Sametinget where it is relevant. This scheme allows municipalities to see the management of protected areas in conjunction with the land management of the rest of the municipality and to facilitate nature-based travel to the protected areas. The board also has a locally based secretariat. As far as possible, the Protected Site Managers work in a management hub together with other professionals and institutions, such as nature care, mountain government and visiting centres. The type of management node provides a good flow of information, cooperation and district work. In spring 2019, the government presented an action plan to strengthen the management of protected areas. In the Action Plan, the Government proposes to add several national park and protection area managers, to facilitate the creation of visiting strategies for national parks, to continue the development of visiting centres and to help the Visitors become good meeting places for cooperation between voluntary organisations, businesses and public administration, to encourage the governance of the protection area and surrounding municipalities to cooperate on the establishment of good, holistic experiences and to further the value creation programme of wild forest. We have more resources for nature conservation, and since 2019 the government has made use of funds to add seven new protection area managers. The work on visiting strategies is well under way. More than half of national parks have been completed, and the government has increased funding for measures in the protected areas by almost 40 pst. during this period of government. The last time in the year's budget, the government has a double base for the association of the municipalities of Norway. It is a goal for the government to contribute to the association's setting of framework conditions that enable them to help members implement the brand name Norway's National Parks. Brandware provides a common visual identity and shall allow for more visitors to the parks where nature can tolerate it. Brandware shall also contribute to closer cooperation between the administrative authorities, the municipalities and the travel and leisure industries and organisations. We continue to bet on the visitor centre and have given funds to three new ones, all authorized, who get an annual base. In other words, the government already has a good plan to strengthen local trade unions and communities, and we are doing well to implement that plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5449	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5454	Nordic countries have nine national parks and very beautiful natural areas. It's a cultural landscape that people have used for many generations. However, Nordic countries have lost a number of state jobs, and when jobs are moved, people have to move. Nordic countries have been very high on moving statistics for the two years before the Coronapandemic began to define our daily lives. My home municipality is Saltdal. This municipality has almost 70 pst. protection, is a node and has a visitor centre. Will the Council of State ensure that state jobs are moved from directorate and government administrator to a node, such as that in Saltdal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5461	First of all, I believe that we should have a crew around the local administration of national parks that are in line with the need and protection objective, and not necessarily to compensate for other developments in society. That's the first one. The second is that the government has invested in this area. We've moved more resources, we've assigned new administrators, and we've strengthened almost everything there's a desire to strengthen in this matter. I would also like to say that it is important that we have a local administration that is anchored, that is professionally strong, and that can also help to get more value creation out of our fantastic protection areas. It includes the areas of protection that the representative is rightly occupied with. Besides that, I don't think I'm going to now promise to move special settings or funds to some other area. I am busy with a good balance and non-discrimination between the different national parks.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5471	At this hub, the administrative unit of the Nordland National Park Centre is located. It consists of five national parks and a number of protected areas. These administrators have been given responsibility for several national parks. There are four administrators, but there are five national parks, and there are a number of other areas of protection. Some were there when the administrative reform, i.e. local government, was carried out by the red-green government. There have been many new tasks, but not new people, and there are no separate SNO positions for these five areas of protection. What have the Council of State and the Government done to strengthen administration with more administrators?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5478	The representative has asked me this question before, and has been answered before, but I can repeat that precisely because Middle Nordland is responsible for more areas of protection, they have more administrators than everyone else has, almost certainly four administrators, while almost everyone else has two. In addition, they have more money available for operation, more resources for processes, and more resources for action, precisely because they have a greater responsibility. I think it's right that a good priority should be given to Middle Nordland, because they have a greater responsibility than most of the others, and I assume that the representative agrees with me based on the angle of the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5485	It seems that the minister contradicts himself. He says that there is a stake in the administration in the Middle Nordland. Then he says that the other national parks only have one or two administrators. But the others have one national park. Here we have five national parks plus a number of protected areas and just four administrators. So it's not hanging on to anything, what the minister says. Should not five national parks have five administrators, and then have additions for the remaining protection areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5490	I don't see that there's any contradiction in what I'm saying. I just said that because one has a greater responsibility and a larger area than most others, one also gets more money. Of course, the representative can shake his head, but that's what I said, and that's the fact. I don't think we should have a completely regulated license that means that the number of square kilometres one has, the number of parks or other protected areas one is responsible for, will trigger 0.5, 0.7, 1 or 1.5 annual works. I think we need to look at what is the situation locally, and what is the need. If you want even more resources than you already have in Central Nordland, that's a legitimate wish, of course. But according to the management responsibilities of Midtre Nordland, compared to most others – or everyone else, in fact – they also have more resources and more annual work than anyone else. I don't think it's a contradiction, but it's fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5497	If the Minister gets an opportunity before the elections, I really recommend taking a trip to the administrative hub, where the administrators of the Central Nordland National Park Board sit together, along with the Visiting Centre. Because it doesn't seem like the minister can take over what I'm trying to explain. I think he might then understand the problem. Having a national park as a framework for experiences is great, and the Nordic National Park Centre has wanted to have a strong role as a hub for business development. What is the reason why they no longer receive grants to be that hoof?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5504	I can assure the representative that I have quite good time before the election to visit national parks. I have at least taken quite a while. I'm going to spend two weeks on just that this summer, and I'm really glad of that. Well, that's probably not exactly defined, but we'll see what we're looking at. I probably didn't count them all in two weeks, but I have the goal of reaching a lot of people, precisely because, as many representatives in this room have been inside, these are some of the most unique natural areas we have. They are important to Norway, and extremely important environmental management is being done there. Getting a closer look at the needs that a person has around is to some extent also a useful side by spending some time on it, so I'm looking forward to it. When it comes to the possibility of industrial development, we in the government – as I was in my post – have been working on it over the last few years: ensuring that one can get more out of protection status and protection from business interests through branding, cooperation with travel and local administration. It's fine, but it can never go beyond the protective measures. It's of course a general consideration, but I'm still saying it, because it's significant, and that's why the areas are protected.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5511	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5518	A number of rapporteurs have written statements in the localities that they support the proposal for a representative which is being discussed today. Increased local ring-effects of protected areas and Norway’s national parks are a good taste for many of us who have a wide range of protected areas in their own municipality, they say. Many districts have great natural values. These values have provided a basis of life for people for a long time. The protection reduces the potential to use resources to create values, e.g.: of forestry and woodworking industries. For many, the forest was an important job earlier. But if the protection is further extended, it will go beyond the industry, for example in Inner Helgeland. Other high-value natural areas today — as before — provide a basis for reindeer, other grazing, hunting and fishing, and many of these protected areas provide a basis for jobs in a completely different location from the community. Local government and local park managers are progressing on the part of the municipalities that have written in the media. There are, however, far more jobs at ports in the Directorates and departments. The local management of protected areas under the red-green government was important. Without that commitment, we would never have come out of the cheese cap protection and started to welcome and focus on value creation in relation to the protection areas. It is therefore disappointing that the Workers' Party will not now be further involved and move more State jobs out to the protection areas, to the nodes, thus strengthening the professional environment and local communities where the protection values are. I'm really not so disappointed with the government, because centralization is target number one for them, and we have to distinguish between what the government does, and what the government says. We have heard a beautiful tribute from the national parks, but in concrete action there have not been very many jobs moved out to the districts. It's gone the other way. Moving these types of jobs to nodes in protection area management is a wise district policy and it makes sense to give more jobs to communities affected by protection. This proposal is a win-win situation that will take a concrete turn in the direction recommended by the district industry committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5531	No more people have asked for the floor. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5548	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5555	I want to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation. It's an overall committee that's behind the position, mostly, and I think it's very important for all of us to focus on managing the sea in a way that allows both we and our children to continue to reap from the sea that gives us. That's what it's all about, taking responsibility for the way we treat our natural resources, the very basis of our lives. We know that both clean seas, a clean coast and also well-functioning marine ecosystems are threatened by marine pollution and climate change, and that this affects the basis of future marine industries. It's assumed that 8 to 10 million tons of plastic end up in the ocean every year, and we have yet another limited knowledge of how this affects life in the ocean and us people. In addition, we know that increasing concentrations of CO 2 in the atmosphere contribute to a warmer and more acidic sea. In the worst cases, species may die or be exploited by other species that are more resistant to acidification, which in the long term will lead to a change in the entire food chain and ecosystems. It is a concern that the sea level is accelerating, with the negative consequences it can have for areas with low settlements and for impacts on fisheries, tourism, infrastructure and agriculture. For the government, it has been important to focus on these challenges, and since 2013 it has been a priority area to combat marine pollution and the spread of plastics, both nationally and internationally. In our comments, we have referred to various major messages that have been presented during these years, on action against marine pollution, on overall management plans for the sea and also on how the aid policy can cover the management of the sea. Many of the proposals we have addressed today are areas we have already worked on, which the Council of State also confirms in its letter of reply to the Committee. When we have not gone into the proposals that deal with the increased or altered use of aid funds, it is linked to the government launching a new and ambitious programme of assistance for marine pollution three years ago, where we have committed ourselves to spending 1.6 billion. kr over a six-year period, the aim of which is to reduce marine pollution in developing countries. In this area, strong efforts are being made by Norway. It is also important to point out that since 2014, Norway has been a strong driver in the UN Environment Assembly for more committed global cooperation against marine pollution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5569	This is a somewhat surprising and happy case that the Stortinget manages to gather on a number of decisions. I think it must be the first time in the period that the Progress Party is involved in promoting a positive case about nature and the environment. I should like to see that commitment had been there in a lot of other things, but when it's actually there, they deserve praise for it. Marines don't have anything to do with this. Everyone knows that there is a huge environmental problem, both nationally and not least internationally. The rapporteur made that very clear. What's kind of amazing to think about, and that's a big paradox, is that the Storting is going to come together today for more decisions than what we did in connection with the climate communication. I believe the key to that is the Advance Party – obviously. In every matter of environment, government parties vote against unless they have a majority against them. It's quite rare that the Progress Party and the parties on the left hand side come together, but in this case we have actually done it, and we have done it in the next case. The two issues we are dealing with today have far more decisions than the entire climate communication received. There is no doubt that in terms of the pace of what government parties will vote on matters, it is the Progress Party that decides. Today it is good, for today the Progress Party has seen the light and promoted many good proposals. We're going to vote for most of them. We are not going to vote in favour of the aid proposal – not because we are against using aid money on marine litter, we are very much in favour of it. We believe that the proposal before us is quite unexplained. The Progress Party has very little credibility here after they decided at their national meeting to cut about 10 billion. NOK in Norwegian aid. The right has also adopted large aid measures, so there will not be much more environmental assistance with the right parties still in government. The last proposal promoted by the Progress Party is that they should hold back aid in areas where they consider that marine pollution is not being taken seriously enough. I do not know exactly how they see that this proposal will be followed up in practice. We have to hold back rainforest money for Indonesia, Brazil and other countries, and there is emergency aid for Syria, Yemen and other countries that one believes are not doing enough for marine irrigation. It is simply a terriblely bad proposal, which the Labour Party will of course vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5584	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Aukrust representative from the Labour Party for at least a lot of praise and positive mention of the proposals of the Progress Party. We provide a solid and good majority for several of the proposals – thank you for that. I think this is the environmental issue that most people can agree on. For Norway, which has a long coast, the fight against marine pollution becomes particularly important. Personally, my own commitment to marine littering and catering began in general before I started school. I remember when I was six, I sat with my older sister on the terrace at home on Sørlanden and wrote handwritten A4 sheets that I hung up on the posts in the neighborhood where I asked people not to throw garbage, and that they had to take more care of the environment. I hope they were read, and that they aroused the involvement of the community. At least there was an engagement with me for this. Many of the proposals we are making today get a majority. Some of the proposals are actually so good that they are adopted unanimously. This must be the environmental issue that has perhaps received the greatest support in Stortinget. It's a little bit like this, as mentioned earlier, that it gets more support than the proposals in the climate communication as well. I'll go through the proposals quickly. We also adopt local things and, among other things, an incentive scheme to make it easier for more local volunteers to contribute to the plastic struggle. Even though the volunteers make a big effort, there's a big difference in Kommune-Norway. Many municipalities also need assistance and follow-up, which is why support and guidance are needed in action plans for marine pollution. In order not to continue to sit on each other’s hands and work, the coordinating task of state administrators has to be specified. And when this commitment also comes from below, a comprehensive strategy and an action plan at national level are needed to put it in context. So we can just do something nationally. That's why we also need international commitments, and then we also have to have a rice behind the mirror. For people, when they sort in Norway in four different bins, they have colored glass, ordinary glass and a fantastic mortgage scheme – and we almost recycle Q-tips, to say the least – regret – while watching videos from abroad dumping garbage and truckloads of garbage that go into the ecosystem. There must be a rice behind the mirror, so we can avoid it. We must not just make strict demands on ourselves, but we must make greater demands on those to whom we give money. With that, I take up the proposals that the Progress Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5599	The representative Gisle Meininger Saudland then drew up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5604	By 2050 it was said to be more plastic than fish in the sea. There is no doubt that this has to be avoided. For this reason, we need action both locally, nationally and not least internationally addressing the challenges of plastic waste management. There is no doubt that plastic smelting is a major problem. We see that when reports show that we emit between 8 and 12 million tons of plastic annually in our oceans. It is a threat to marine wildlife, but also to humans. It is therefore worrying that plastic siblings are increasing, and plastic is by far one of the greatest environmental challenges of our time. At sea, the plastic gradually becomes microplastics, to pieces so small that they are impossible to see, but that has become a natural part of the diet of both fish and bird. So it also becomes part of our diet, for the next stop on the road is our own plate. It is therefore hardly necessary to be said loud, but it is obvious that even more powerful measures are needed to combat plastic waste. Today, it is challenging to achieve an overall and overall division of responsibilities between the plastic clearing operators along the coast. It is the government administrators who have been given the responsibility to coordinate their work, but it is not specified how. Therefore, the Centre considers that municipalities and renovation companies should have a more defined responsibility and a more active role. We have also put forward proposals for a grant scheme covering the costs associated with the delivery of waste following voluntary clearing operations. It is an important measure for local clearing operations, which are largely done by the local community, for example sports. The skill and awareness of people around the country about the challenges of plastics is important to ring. I am pleased that we have received a majority for that proposal today, although I must say that it is disappointing that the government parties do not support it. In conclusion, I would just like to say that there are a number of proposals here today that are being adopted, including unanimously, which is good, and which testify to a committee that sees how great the plastic challenges in both Norway and the world have become.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5625	I would also like to start by commending the Advance Party for raising this important matter. ‘Every year between eight and twelve million tonnes of plastic are landed in the sea. It's equivalent to over 15 tons every single minute. It is a threat both to wildlife living in the sea and to humans. Plastic stowage is increasing, and plastic is by far the biggest environmental challenge of our time.’ This is what the Progress Party writes in its proposal. Although I think it is good that they address this, I would like to call for the commitment of the Progress Party to the fight against some of the largest plastic waste from the Norwegian land. A recent report was prepared on behalf of the Environment Directorate, which shows that rubber cullet from artificial grass tracks is the second largest source of plastic pollution from the Norwegian land. The biggest source is car traffic. None of these two things want the Progress Party to be with and do something with. They do not want to support our proposals and the Greens' proposals to put in place measures to limit car traffic, nor did we receive support from the Progress Party on the issue of combating rubber cullet on the country's artificial grass tracks. I hope, however, that the proposal that the Progress Party has now put forward is the germ of a greater environmental commitment from the party, because I would say it is high time. I also hope that the party will be involved in combating the biggest challenges and the biggest sources of plastic pollution in the Norwegian land. I will deal with the proposal SV is behind with the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5641	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5646	The fight against plastic in the sea and in our water sources is an important issue for the Left. We have cooperated well with the Progress Party in eight years now. Those in the room who think it is something completely new that the Progress Party is concerned about this, have not followed closely in the hour. We have established ports to receive plastic at Fishing for Litter. We have established a support program to clear along the coast. We've put that on money almost every year over eight years, I'll remember. The Prime Minister has come up with a Clean Sea initiative. This is part of greater cooperation over a long period of time. Microplastics have also been part of the commitment that we've done something with. Now the government has delivered on just that. In the case of granules and car tyres, measures are put in place to clean it up. So the representative Åsmund Aukrust is trying to make a number that there are more proposals in this case that are supported than it was in the climate plan. There's at least no contradiction between them. So it could be that there were so many measures in the climate plan that the most important thing was to get to those who were there. The escalation associated with the economy and the CO 2 tax was also important to achieve. It is not that we do not reach the targets because there were so few proposals. We're going to achieve those goals, and more. If we reach the targets we have in cleaning up plastic pollution nationally, and in addition get an effort made globally, we've done a lot for our globe for the next decades as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5661	Three years ago, the Greens adopted a resolution on plastics which is getting better and better. There we suggested, among other things: to prohibit disposable plastic articles such as Q-tips, small bags, suction tubes and disposable cups. Now both the EU and the government have followed, and we are very happy about that. The exposure to the plastic container has such wide appeal that it has even reached the point of progression – perhaps after the plastic whale. That is good, because it now means that there will be a majority on the Stortinget for some new measures against plastic waste. Today, we adopt, among other things, to increase the penalties for dumping of waste from ships and to establish a subsidy scheme covering the costs of voluntary grubbing-up operations. Fortunately, we do not agree with the proposal of the Progress Party to use the aid to clean up marine pollution in other countries. The Green Party will never, under any circumstances, make international environmental and climate work exacerbate traditional aid work. I'm really glad that the Progress Party sometimes also shows real environmental exposure. Today, the Terje Halleland of the Progress Party received flowers from representatives of the waste industry for the job in securing a majority for a better biogas policy. The party of progress can whenever they want! The problem is that the party's environmental exposure disappears when environmental policy conflicts with the core issues. I wish the Progress Party had a more holistic approach to the plastic problem, for example. in the case of artificial grass tracks, on which the representative Haltbrecken was involved. The Progress Party just voted against a proposal to replace rubber cullet with more environmentally friendly alternatives. The party also voted against a proposal to compensate football clubs with a weak economy, which is now required to spend a lot of money to ensure that the environmentally harmful rubber cullet is not spread to the environment. This dual attitude is also apparent in the case of driving. I rarely see any FrP exposure for several bicycle routes or better public transport – and despite the recent environmental directorate, it concluded that the sun is clearly the very largest source of the spread of microplastics in nature from cover wear and tear, and that these emissions are much larger than previously thought. For this reason, we are proposing today, together with SV, to ask the Government to present a case to the Storting on how reduced road traffic, with stronger efforts on bicycles, corridors and public transport, can reduce emissions from the main source of plastic emissions – both in the local and in the sea. With this Advance Party, I invite you to support this proposal as a good environmental party to show that they are serious about their plastic exposure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5678	I noticed that a lot of people are busy using large parts of the speaking time to talk about the Progress Party. I thought I'd talk a little bit about plastic. Plastic exploration of the world's oceans is one of the fastest growing environmental problems of our time. It has consequences for marine ecosystems, for the economy and for human welfare. Plastics on detours are also resources on detours. Plastic is an amazing material with a lot of good properties that we need in our modern society. However, estimates show that the amount of plastic waste will dramatically increase the coming years if we do not adopt targeted measures. In 2040, quantities of plastic waste not handled in an environmentally sound manner or ending in nature or in the sea may increase to 239 million tonnes. The government takes that problem very seriously. That is why we are in the interview with the work on a plastic strategy that we will soon be submitting. Most of the Committee's requests are going to be part of that strategy. So here it's just to rejoice. The strategy will be targeted at all sources of waste plastic and not just at the sea. The government is already working on a number of measures that many people have been concerned about in their proposals, including cleaning up. The state administrator's future role, especially when it comes to clean-up, we'll also mention closer. I thought it was nice that the Stortinget now seems to adopt a number of proposals that I should make sure that we should follow up in a good way, and it should also be done quickly. The strategy has a holistic approach and aims to use plastics that are more efficient in their use and at the same time reduce plastic pollution to the environment. The strategy will also promote targeted measures across the whole life cycle of the plastic product and measures to use more plastic waste as a resource. This strategy will be the government's action plan against marine plastic pollution and for action when plastic waste ends up in the environment and in the event of acute contamination. He will also take action against the spread of microplastics, and he builds on the plastic strategy that was part of the latest waste notification, i.e. Report. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The government will also present a strategy for the circular economy in a short time, and plastics will also be an important part of that strategy. Similar to climate, no individual country alone can solve the challenges of plastic pollution. Since 2014, the government has been working specifically for stronger global obligations to counteract marine plastic pollution and microplastics. More and more countries now call for negotiations on a new agreement, and there is every reason to rejoice over it. I believe that a legally binding global agreement whereby all countries commit themselves to cooperation will be the most effective action globally, and that both I and the government are working for. We hope we get to the goal soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5695	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5700	The statements by the SV and the Green Party in the past show that they both clearly feel threatened by the Environment Policy of the Progress Party in this matter. The Labour Party even said that the Progress Party was the joker for a better environmental policy, if I wrote it down correctly. I thought I should hear the Council of State's assessment, because I know that he also has a genuine environmental exposure, what he thinks about the Progress Party being the joker in environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5705	I think that the Progress Party has many good proposals in environmental policy. I thought so before we got here today. The step-by-step game has a historical commitment to stopping plastic stowage, as the representative, Kjeseth, was in the past. It goes back several years. I also thought we have worked well with the Progress Party both in government and outside government on climate and environmental policy in recent years. So the fact that many in the Progress Party are too good and effective environmental policies in a range of areas is nothing new. Then there's some area where there's not a good description of the policy of the Progress Party, but I'm not going to go further into it now in the lines. Otherwise it's not going to come out that we're a minority government, and that means that when the Labour Party, the Center Party and the Advance Party are a few things about, they have multiples in Stortinget. It can sometimes have more positive consequences, sometimes resulting in a weakening of climate and nature policies. We've seen something of both in the last few months.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5712	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree that we have found a lot of good policies together. My next question is a little bit more specific. I see that the Council of State refers to what the punishment has historically been for dumping garbage from ships. Now that the Storting asks the government to tighten up the punishment, I thought that I wanted to hear the personal views of the Council of State on what he thinks is the right level of punishment, how much it would be right to tighten up the penalty for organized dumping of ship-sourced waste.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5719	I guess we're so concerned about preventing the kind of dumping that I understand that the representatives from the Progress Party and several others are. This is serious environmental crime, and it will have consequences. At the same time, our experience and analysis of the situation is that there is no penalty level here that is the main challenge. On the contrary, a fairly juicy fee, up to NOK 500000, is allocated for that type of action, and it should be horrendous. What is the main challenge is to discover, identify and link it to actors, as it often is when it comes to that kind of action and misconduct. It's probably not that if one just sets the penalty level high enough, one solves most of the challenges in society. Nor does it apply in environmental policy. So I don't think I'm going to go into how high one could set this penalty level. I thought it was pretty strict today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5724	As I was in my post, we have today made a proposal for a grant scheme that covers the costs of delivering waste after voluntary clearing operations. I notice that the government parties do not support it. I wonder, what does the government do with the challenge that very many of those who are involved in the voluntary clearing operations today experience?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5731	Well, I'll be glad to tell you: we support it. The Directorate-General for the Environment has a system that already supports voluntary clearing operations. Keeping Norway clean also manages a reimbursement scheme that allows volunteers to cover the cost of clean-up operations, and the funds come from the redundancy scheme. In addition, there are a number of private funds that people are looking for, and getting admitted, to fund such things. In the forthcoming plastic strategy of the government, we are going to look at just the reimbursement scheme for cleaning up. So the answer is simply that we have a number of arrangements for this today, and in the plastic strategy we're going to look at the question. Then I can't quite see that the call decision that we're being asked to support here adds something to the discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5738	Today it is that if you organize the collection of plastic in the spring, you get that plastic delivered free of charge to a waste receptacle, but if you organize the collection of plastic in the forest, you have to pay for the submission of this. This is a question that I have also asked the Council of State in the past, and the answer at that time was not very uplifting. But today, the Storting unanimously adopts the following: ‘The government is asking for an incentive scheme for more volunteers, including teams and organisations, to contribute to the cleaning of plastics.’ So my question is, does the Council of State consider, in the context of the implementation of that decision, that it will be free to deliver plastics collected from the forest as well? It is a proposal for Decision IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5748	Both of the proposals that have been presented here are quite likely to be adopted, and then, of course, I'll follow them up in a conscientious way. As I was also in the previous answer, it is that we already have a number of back-up arrangements and reimbursement arrangements today, and in the upcoming plastic strategy with which the government is working, we will also talk about that question. So we're looking at such questions with an open view -- what the scope should be, what the level of support should be, what the right-wing associations or people should be, what the areas are to clear, etc. That's why we're asked to solve these questions, and of course we should do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5756	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5763	We have heard that this is a great debate and that it is an important debate, but there are several political parties here and, as a matter of fact, are surprised that the Progress Party can raise a debate on marine pollution. I register so much strangely from the Environmental Party of Greens and SV, but when the Workers' Party throws itself at the same criticism, I have to admit that I am stunned. And when the reason is that we haven't supported a ban on rubber cullet, which the rest of the government agreed with us, then we're not worthy to address a problem that's about marine culverting. It's almost ridiculed that a party that fights to build more roads can be against marine litter. Then I think it's almost going to be fun. So this group, which is ready to ban driving, must at the same time proclaim their own moral excellence. And when we talk about aid: the Progress Party was a proponent to use aid for marine irrigation. This has been passed on to us by the government, and it has also shown results – and shows results – and is really the basis on which the government is based in these days. But it should have nothing to do with assistance. The Environment Party representative of the Greens could not see that marine pollution had a link to aid. I am tempted to ask the representative who he thinks is going to suffer from an increased marine litter. I think it is impressive how the problems should be solved 'in their image': society should be based on unilateral premises; it should be based on prohibitions and injunctions. I get the impression that the premises are largely formed in a smaller circle in some urban culture. I guess the next thing is that we're going to live in caves, eat the food of the animals and stop making children, because it gives the least climate impact. It must be possible to solve one problem without creating ten new ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5772	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 24th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5789	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5796	I have to admit and confess that I have dropped some harsh words about the Progress Party from this pulpit, but today there is an article number two that is full of fame and joy – for it has been a real pleasure to be the case rapporteur in this case, promoted by the Progress Party. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the whole Committee for its good cooperation. To the representative Halleland I also promise that all this boasting is not going to be a habit, so I'm going to come back to good answers, because living in earth cabins and eating roots is not exactly the society we're fighting for. On the contrary, we will cultivate opportunities for both better value creation and more jobs on nature's terms. And there's biogas brilliant. It can be used as a fuel for heavy transport and ferries, as a substitute for fossil energy in industrial processes, bio-fertilizers, residues from biogas production can provide better profitability throughout the biogas industry when used for soil improvement, and bio-fertilisation can also replace fossil fertilizers, restore nutrients to the soil and provide better soil quality. In short, biogas is a circular economy in practice, and here I am happy to be shoulder to shoulder with the Progress Party. It consists of five proposals, all of which are given a majority. An overall committee calls on the government to ensure equal treatment of zero-emission and biogas vehicles on toll-funded routes. This is something that the waste and biogas industry has been calling for for years, and, following the Circular Economic Communication of the Council of State, we may be able to rename both waste and biogas to ‘circular industries’. The Committee is also in favour of harmonising the framework conditions for biogas production in the Nordic region and returning to the Stortinget with a plan to do so. In addition, an overall opposition – and thus a majority in this room – promotes proposals to simplify the application process for support for biogas vehicles. We propose to simplify and improve Enova’s support schemes for biogas distributors and filling stations, and not least to change the use of the term ‘zero emissions’ in all state objectives and plans for ‘zero emissions and biogas’. The changes we are adopting today, the Greens have fought for too long. When I was in the Stortinget in 2018, I had the pleasure of working with the Workers' Party and the Centre on the same thing as we are adopting today – at the time, the Progress Party voted it down, but it is nice that they have turned around – namely to treat the biogas vehicle as a zero-emission vehicle in public acquisitions and on sections financed by tolls. The potential for both producing and using more biogas is enormous, but there have been some regulatory barriers in the way. We're clearing up these obstacles today. Today I am proud to be a green politician and to be part of Norwegian democracy. With that, I recommend the vote and look forward to a brilliant debate on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5811	I just have to add to what the rapporteur started with, that it is actually fun to be in Stortinget today, for today's position is a result of very good cross-political craftsmanship in the committee. I would also like to commend the Progress Party for having put forward a proposal, because without it we would not have done so. We need more renewable energy, we need to use resources more efficiently, and biogas is important in the transition to the zero-emission society and the transition to a more circular economy. Biogas is a mature solution that can rapidly reduce emissions. The unique thing about biogas is that you have value chains with climate gains at all stages. It is established and is under construction biogas plants throughout the country. There is a lot of innovation in the production process, and I would like to highlight Renor AS, as for example. have used the knowledge from the supplier industry and reduced the energy demand in production by 35 pst. Another actor, VEAS, is Norway’s largest waste water treatment plant and aims to create so many new products that they can offset the sewerage charges by 2040. Targeted regulatory framework conditions will accelerate the development of current markets, reduce emissions faster and contribute to the creation of new, forward-looking jobs. One of the main barriers to heavy transport for investing in a biogas vehicle is the lack of filling stations. For liquid biogas, which is the most efficient, there are only three filling stations and all are in the East. Filling stations are needed along the main freight transport years. The risk of establishment should be left to the builders and not to the present, where Enova requires all potential users to be identified before being eligible for support. I don't think I've been away in other areas. Liquid biogas will also be important to reduce emissions from maritime transport, including the fishing fleet. The filling infrastructure must also cover important freight and fishing ports. For heavy transport, transition to biogas will have a particularly positive impact in urban areas. It is therefore important that a unanimous collapse now determines that the biogas vehicle is to be treated in the same way as the zero-emission vehicle in bombing or on toll sections. Biogas will also be important for large parts of industry. This applies to both non-quota industries, which have met major challenges when we increase the price of emissions while operating in a global market. Biogas will be an important alternative, but also in the process industry, where biocarbon can be an alternative. Today, much of the waste is exported, and there should be a target to have as much equivalent support schemes in the Nordic region as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5828	It is said that gold cannot be made of greystone, but at least with biogas you can make gold of cocoon. Transport accounts for approx. one third of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. In Westfold, where I live, the number is higher, but we're also sitting on one of the solutions – cum and food garbage that's being turned into fuel. Biogas is a very important part of the solution to our emissions. That is why I am very happy to see that the Progress Party has engaged so strongly in this. I would like to praise them – and I mean this honestly – for their commitment to the climate in this field. I know this isn't a campaign stunt, but an honest commitment that the Progress Party has had throughout the period. Today, the Progress Party is taking important action for the industry. No, I haven't changed sides. Biogas and bio-fertiliser products have very many advantages. We can replace mineral fertilisers, for example, with bio-fertilisers and reduce emissions from fertiliser production. It also ensures the re-use of phosphorus and other resources in the waste. Biogas to replace diesel and petrol cuts emissions, but it also cuts noise and local air pollution in our cities. Biogas production based on manure contributes to the reduction of agricultural emissions. In other words, this is a massive climate-child egg. Proposalers have a very important point when stressing that infrastructure is essential for the production and use of biogas in Norway to have as much impact as desired in the green transition. If we are to create predictability and motivation for those who are to invest in biogas, this is an important prerequisite. At the same time, it is very gratifying to see that we have actors like St1, who have recently announced that they are entering the biogas market in Norway. Together with Nor-log and Knapphus Energie, they participate in a cooperation to build a national network of biogas filling points in Norway. It's good to see that business takes responsibility, and that they see profitability in the biogas. Then I understand the desire for a smaller bureaucratic Enova, the simplest possible application processes and the lowest possible thresholds, yes, really simplification of everything, but I think we should be careful with politics to govern Enova once we have decided that we should govern them by mandate. Enova has also been absolutely essential for us to have actually come as far as we have done with biogas in Norway. Since 2014, Enova has supported a total of 430 million. kr for biogas production in Norway to start the market. We must continue to invest in biogas, and Enova must continue to invest in just infrastructure and heavy vehicles. Biogas vehicles do not have the same benefits as, for example: electric cars in the bombs. The time has now come to ensure that biogas vehicles are treated in the same way as electric cars on toll-funded routes. The potential in biogas is high. Probably we can double the output by 2030. Reconciling value creation, growth and climate are exactly what we need to solve our climate challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5847	Now I hope Åsmund will come along and see that the environmental proposals are coming from the Progress Party here. The difference from his own proposals is that these get a majority. What we have in front of us today is a real joy. I believe that once we have made any decisions in this matter, there will be a new timetable for the biogas that says something about before and after this decision. The biogas has been treated orally for many years. I don't think it's happened primarily because it's been a wish for it. But then it's sometimes that when one prioritizes one technology, another takes priority over other technologies. I would like to thank the case rapporteur from MDG. I'm going to be a little more grotesque with him in this post. I think he's done a very good job here. I would like to thank you for the cooperation that has been. I would also like to make a special contribution to the Workers' Party and Ruth Grung, with whom we have worked very well in the matter. We're making a lot of important decisions today. I know that we have many players in the industry who are extremely pleased with several of the decisions. And now we're going to have an equal treatment. Now we get a technology neutrality. And if we're going to succeed in the transition, we're going to have to take away that some technologies are worth more than others. We have today areas where electricity has its advantage, where hydrogen has its own, where biofuels come out best, and not least we have areas where biogas can secure solutions that give a desired effect with less emissions. If we're going to be able to convert the areas that are currently using fossil fuels, we're going to have to use all the means we have. Enova is an important piece in this work. Now we have to create predictability for both the producer and the user of biogas. We have to get around the chicken and egg discussion. We need to set up support schemes in such a way that we ensure filling stations along the main road network, and that we provide security for those who invest in expensive vehicles, in order to find filling stations. We have to do the same with the main ports, that biogas is also made available there. Biogas is the mother of the circular economy. If that's what we have enough of, it's sewage sludge, fish farming waste, food waste, all of organic residues or waste. Biogas can complement and replace fossil energy in transport both to land and to water. The government parties are behind some of the proposals, and I am very pleased about that. I can't quite do that, but I'm sitting with a feeling that we have to basically drag them after us. But I'm going to end up with the feeling I'm sitting with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5868	Now there are a number of proposals here today that get majority, and that's good. But I want to remind the Storting that it is not very long since we dealt with the climate communication, and in this connection the Centre Party had a number of proposals that referred to biogas, but unfortunately did not get a majority. But if we promise it in our own representative proposal in Stortinget, maybe we'll have a majority then? You could ask yourself. The government has announced a biogas action plan in the Climate Change Communication. Our clear call to the government is that it has to be reinforced on a very large number of points. Such an action plan must clearly anchor a production target and put research funds and grant schemes at the disposal of the development of an entire value chain. There is a large potential for biogas production in Norway today, but the situation now is that the demand for biogas is lower than the production and that there is no instrument in place with solutions for this. The industry also calls for a clearer plan for the construction of filling stations and that the plan should include an assessment of the device of Enova’s biogas support schemes, in order to ensure that these trigger investments in infrastructure, for example. In addition, Enova’s aid schemes are perceived as heavy-duty. That is why I am pleased that today's proposal seems to have a majority. There's the potential to do a lot in this area. Biogas is generated from all of our waste – from manure, from fish waste – and shows how the circular economy can be done in practice. But it is a bit subtle to stand here today and discuss biogas proposals from the Progress Party. For the government and the Progress Party, it has not exactly made it easier for operators to choose bio as a solution, as the biodiesel user charge introduced in 2020. I'm going to include an example from my own home country: In Troms the county municipality chose to switch to the use of renewable biodiesel on most of its buses. But after the user charge was introduced, the county council was forced to switch to fossil diesel again, as it is much cheaper. It shows how far away from reality and bad climate policies this government puts up by punishing those who choose environmentally friendly alternatives, with higher charges. But it is, of course, consistently in all this government, with the support of the Progress Party in climate policy, that is to say, to increase taxes in all areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5881	I have to start where Sandra Borch from the Central Party ended. This is the world’s worst example of how she addresses the user charge, as the Senterpartiet then introduced, and which stopped all biodiesel production in Norway in 2009. What this government has done is to introduce a integration requirement, so we've gone from 4 pst. until 25 pst. interference in 2021, which also means that greenhouse gas emissions have fallen considerably. Biodiesel is something else than biogas. Here, we can once again go to the Centre Party – and a little bit on the Advance Party, too, for that part – of the CO 2 tax, as the government proposes in the climate plan, will just introduce the biogas, and the fight to keep the petrol and diesel prices down, is also at the expense of the biogas, and biodiesel too, for that matter. The proposals that are being promoted here today, and the majority that are being created, are very good. In particular, filling stations are important, because what is an obstacle today is that heavy transport and buses do not have enough capacity, and it must be along the main roadways to make it a volume, and also a predictability for the purchaser. The relationship between hydrogen and biogas is also one of the major possibilities. This will be more interesting for both technology development, industry and industrial actors. Biogas will be very interesting, because it is the fastest way to reduce emissions in Europe and the Nordic countries, and the Nordic countries are far ahead. To harmonise in the Nordic region, we don't have so much work to do, I would say. The Swan label, a common Nordic initiative, has already established a labelling scheme for biogas. The Danes have gone away from their production support to biogas, and in the case of a green certificate, which we have had on electricity production between Norway and Sweden, it does not feel like we in Norway want to repeat exactly that part. So how this is going to be done, we have to look a little bit closer. I think we should focus a lot on Norway in order to get the coast and inland to interact with biogas. That's what can really give the big volumes of biogas. Getting it out in the maritime and marine sectors will give volumes, and getting filling stations along the coast, which can also be used by bus fleets and heavy transport, will be important. So St1 is mentioned here, and that's very good what they're doing now. Finnish Gasum, which is the answer to Equinor, or old Statoil, has also entered Norway. The attention to biogas is high, and the potential to produce more is also large, so this is going to win-win.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5899	In the low-emission society, we should make the best possible use of resources. The production of biogas from residues and waste is an example of good use of resources. We have a good tool to promote the production and use of biogas through the whole value chain: the support schemes contribute to research and technology and market development. The CO 2 tax and the ETS make the biogas more competitive compared to fossil energy. The waste legislation helps to make the raw material available. In the climate plan, government strengthens drug use. We will gradually increase the CO 2 charge. We aim to introduce translation requirements for biofuels for shipping and zero emissions requirements for new urban bus purchases. For both of these requirements, we'll figure out and how the requirements can also apply to biogas. The government has also strengthened Enova as a climate agent. In 2021, Enova was added 3.3 billion. kr. That's $1.6 billion. kr more than in 2013, with your two possibilities to support multiple projects. Biogas production has increased in recent years. I believe that the way in which governments have strengthened the climate power plant well facilitates a further increase in the production and use of biogas. Then we have good experience in steering Enova at a superior level, which also the Storting agrees with, at least when we talk about it superiorly, and Enova has great flexibility in making professional assessments of the areas, programs and projects that give the most outsourcing for the money. There is a basis for the governance agreement, and more detailed management will reduce that flexibility and will result in one having to use less resources in other areas. I mean there's the potential to increase the use of biogas in Norway. In particular, biogas is a good solution where electrification is difficult, e.g. in parts of heavy transport and shipping and in the industrial process. How to adjust the tools to improve even better requires thorough assessments. Gas vehicles can run with biogas on the tank one day and natural gas on the tank the other day, and it makes it quite demanding to use the vehicle straight in towards the vehicles to promote the use of biogas. The NTP running noise target is an example of a policy that applies to types of running gear. And when the Stortinget now, as I understand it, wants to decide that a gas vehicle should be equated with other zero-emission vehicles, I must admit that I am in doubt that it will strengthen climate policy. In fact, I would say that it would be quite demanding to deal with it. To achieve as much emission reductions as we need in the transport sector, we need to develop zero-emission technologies, such as electric and hydrogen vehicles. These are technologies that can be widely used and that do not have emissions during use. We need tools to facilitate that technology development. I'm not saying any of this to desavour many of the good words that have been said about biogas in the course of the debate. They I end up with. I just want to say that when it comes to correcting vehicles, biogas and zero-emission vehicles are two quite different things.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5924	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5929	As you've probably heard from all the contributions, we've been very involved in the biogas industry. It's a little bit ahead of us before we get heavy vehicles inside, with hydrogen and with it going on electricity. In that transition phase, biogas is a very good alternative, at least that's the understanding we've been given, and we've checked it out several ways. But what's absolutely crucial is to get the filling stations in place, especially for liquid. The question is – now we are adopting it quite soon in Stortinget – what the Council of State will do to ensure that we quickly get a core network in place, especially in the major transport years for freight and in port infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5937	First, it's important to say that the devices we're doing today are now working on the market. When private operators now say that they should create biogas filling stations, as St1 has warned. because we send a clear signal to increase the CO 2 charge in the future. The more one weakens that signal, for example. by undermining it, by facilitating other taxes and charges against it, it will be more demanding. But I'm because we're betting on biogas and not least for more filling stations and production. That's very good. What is more demanding is that the Workers' Party, and what looks like the plural, want to equate gas vehicles with electric and hydrogen vehicles in the NTP targets. I say a gas truck because it's nothing called a biogas train. They can go on natural gas, and they can go on biogas. I have to admit that I'm a little uncertain as to whether it actually strengthens the measure in NTP when it comes to climate. It can lead to the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5945	It seems that the Council of State has not really understood what we wanted to adopt, because it is quite clear in the remarks that we need to ensure that it is sustainability and get good definitions attached to it. Both Sweden, Denmark and Finland have invested in biogas and gained a much greater share than we have done. Even if you do not have to control Enova, it seems very special that you have to document all users before you can get support. It's possible to whisper to them that you might think a little bit differently at that point. At least as we can see it, we believe that when the Nordic region is so far ahead – and the IEA report also showed – biogas will be an important part of the renewable solution in the future. At the same time, we export about 50 pst. of our waste to our neighbouring countries. What initiative will the Council of State take to ensure an equivalent framework to give us a common Nordic market?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5954	Biogas is a commercial product and therefore good framework conditions are important in all countries for the production of biogas. I'm very much in favour of it, and it's fine with equal rules. It is also likely that the agreement will be agreed, as far as I can see. I don't think I've misunderstood anything. I thought a lot of it was positive, and there's a whole lot of things about it. I just let myself say that when the representatives of the Workers' Party and the majority look like they want to decide that we should treat the biogas vehicle with zero-emission vehicle in e.g. measured in NTP, there is nothing called a biogas engine. It's called gas vehicles, and they can run on natural gas, and they can run on biogas. We can't control or know what they're doing one day or the other. We have the NTP target that in 2030 should be 75 pst. of long-distance buses and new heavy goods vehicles and 50 pst. of new trucks being zero-emission vehicles. If a mean literally that it has to change, it could cause them to go on fossil gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5961	It's clear to us who have been working on this for a long time, that if you're going to be able to get actors to invest in biogas, they need incentives that make it profitable. If, especially in urban areas, the fossilly driven heavy-duty vehicles currently in operation are able to be converted to biogas, which has lower emissions, it will be a great advantage. That's what's at stake. The comments make it very clear that we also want a clear definition to avoid the pits that are now being described. That is the challenge of the Council of State. The real question is: will the Council of State take that initiative? For there is no reference to NTP target values, but simply to ensure a market for heavy-duty vehicles towards biogas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5968	I thought that was a useful clarification. If it is the case that the Labour Party believes that a non-discrimination of biogas and zero-emission vehicles is to be ensured in the Rome Council Decision III – I am sorry, that is not what I am aiming for. I meant IV, where a government asks to change the notion of zero emissions into all state objectives, and to add biogas. If it's true that one doesn't mean that it should apply in the NTP formulations when it comes to different vehicle targets, it's more manageable. That, I thought, is a useful clarification. But I have not quite understood it this way, nor when I read the settings. If we can be some that in some measure we have in the NTP that goes on for example. Driving vehicles, that applies to trucks, that applies to buses, that applies to vans, it may be an advantage to keep zero emissions as a target, and not to have gas vehicles – if that is the understanding, we are more of a few.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5973	Both inside and outside the government, the Progress Party has been working for biogas – also together with the Council of State – for general framework conditions, support schemes and market access, especially through public procurement. My impression has always been that the Council of State has been in favour of strengthening biogas. Now there is a proposal here on the concept of zero emissions. As the Council of State is fully aware, as long as a user uses the term ‘zero emissions’, biogas falls through. Now we have a proposal today that takes care of this. Then my question is very simple: why does the government not support that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5986	Because in some contexts it's a good idea to equalise biogas and zero emissions, but it's not a good idea in all contexts, as I now understand that both the Progress Party, the Environmental Party of Dei Green, SV, the Working Party and the Center Party will. When we have some government objectives, for example: The proportion of running gear, and talking about technology, makes sense, because one cannot use a battery car and drive it with petrol, or a hydrogen car and drive it with diesel. But a gas vehicle can use natural gas. It's just a technological fact, we can't do anything about it. This means that when a correcting agent for biogas – and I am to produce biogas, let me underline it – it's probably more targeted to align it to the fuel, to the energy carrier, and not, for example. a driving definition, as I understand one here is asking us to do. Now it was just enough created considerable uncertainty around it based on my exchange of lines with the representative Grung just, and I think it would have been an advantage that the Storting at least thought a little bit about before asking us to do so, because it has some consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5991	What the council says, is that you're afraid to be tricked. It is okay that we can say that you have a station in the garage when you charge your car, but there are not so many who have neither a biogas plant nor a natural gas plant in the garage. So I'm a little surprised that the serious actors who are on the market, who are going to supply the industry, or the vehicle for that part, with biogas, are going to be suspicious because their product can be confused with natural gas. Do I have the right opinion?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e5996	No, I suspect absolutely none. I just describe a technical reality, such as that a gas engine can go on biogas, and it can also go on natural gas, and it can't be done with that. That's how it is. And then the question is, is it right then to equalise e.g. the objective of a zero-emission gas running vehicle, as requested by the Progress Party, with apparent support from the red-green ones? I don't know if it's wise. I think it's more important and wiser to focus our efforts on what is improperly producing biogas and not natural gas, and that's production, that's distribution, that's what goes on the fuel, and not on the engine. So I think that biogas has an important role to play in both shipping, heavy transport, etc., not least as a supplement to zero emission technology. But biogas, on the same line as biofuels, is a finite resource, and we can't carry out the green shift just with biofuels and biogas. We also need zero emission technologies to support them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6003	I think I'm starting to understand a little bit about the problem now, if that's how you've realized that now it's one and only biogas or one and only biofuels that are going to be the solution. What we mean is that in order to convert both vehicles and industry into other technologies, we need the tools and access to the technologies that are there. But just to go a little bit further. We've always invested in biogas. We have always had support schemes for biogas. They have varied — sometimes we have been operating, sometimes we have gone on investment, it has been on agriculture, it has been on slaughter waste. Our neighbours have come much longer, if not otherwise in ambitions. Can the Council of State answer me as to why we have not succeeded?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6011	We have closed considerably better than our neighbouring countries in some other areas of transport, for example. the development of electric cars, and also now in the introduction of zero-emission vehicles for heavy transport and shipping. So it's not that we haven't closed with the conversion while they're closing, but we might have closed with a little bit of different things. I am very much in favour of Norway being closed even better with biogas in the future. I myself have laid the foundation stone for biogas plants, I have been present when people have invested in filling stations, I have congratulated the company that invests in gas vehicles. We've done a lot of this in government with the Progress Party. So I don't mean there's a reason to say that we haven't done anything. We've done a lot on the contrary, and we also see that the arrows point in the right direction. I have great faith in biogas in the future as an important addition to zero emission solutions. The inconsistency that lies here, I still think it's wise for us to take a little bit seriously, insofar as one hasn't done it before, and that's that there are some differences in these vehicles considering that some guarantee environmentally friendly fuels, others don't, and then maybe there's fuel that you should drive rather than the running gear.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6020	The key to scaling up and profitability in the biogas value chain is in relation to foreseeable demand. The transport industry likes biogas, but two barriers remain. One is a good filling infrastructure, and the other is an incentive in the toll sections where the shoe, or the tyre, presses. We are pleased that the government parties in the setting choose to be on III, but in the case of IV, therefore, one does not choose to support the proposal to change the concept of zero emissions to zero emissions and biogas. I find that strange and would like a better explanation. I hear the council says that there are no biogas cars, but I still see them away. TINE is using biogas cars, and Oslo Taxi is using biogas cars. So we're going to review, we're going to have quality assurance on the content. We have blue diesel, we have alcohol – labelled with alcohol content – and we have auditors who are experts in documenting quality. Why do the Left and the Government parties not want to support equality?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6027	Because a running vehicle that goes on biogas can also go on fossil gas. Of course, the Green Party can pretend that it's not true, but that's the way it is, and then the question is, is it wise, for example? to change the target number of NTP, which is that by 2030 50 pst. by new trucks are zero to zero to zero to zero to zero to zero to zero or to a gas towing device? Is it supposed to change our objectives like this? If that's what the Green Party wants, I ask them to confirm it. If that's what they don't want, I ask them to cancel it in an post afterwards, because it's very important. When one asks us to change all zero emission targets, for example. in NTP, to include gas, if one set it at the top, it means that one will have reached the target in 2030 if 50 pst. of trucks on diesel and 50 pst. goes on fossil gas. I see the representative trying to draw a line. He probably won't, but he'd like to have an post afterwards and clarify it, because it's very useful for us to know if we now, if this is agreed, have to change all of these goals. If not, I don't think the discord in this room is so big, and in that case it will be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6032	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6039	You have to hear a lot of strange things before your ears fall off. I thought the council could read suggestions. If you look at IV, it says ‘a change in the use of the concept of zero emissions in all state objectives and plans for zero emissions and biogas’, it does not say, as far as I can see, zero emissions and gas. It's like the semantic thing in it. It's a crystal clear definition. There is a big difference between biogas and gas, just as there is a big difference between biodiesel and biodiesel. You have something full of orangutan, squeezing orangutan into the biodiesel, and then you have some biodiesel that's made in a sustainable way. A key concept here, dear state councillor, is the LCA, life cycle analysis/assessment. Streams may be made on coal or may be made on solar panels. Hydrogen can be made in blue, green, or black. It's the same way with biogas in relation to natural gas, it's slightly different chemical composition. If you really want to go into it, the natural gas has a different carbon isotope than the biogas has. A wide range of options exist to verify the type of value chain from which a fuel comes. Then maybe we have to think a little bit of a thought, that this one right here with just the engine type is going to be the wrong criterion. You also need to look at the entire value chain or life cycle analysis and have a footprint documentation, a certification on which footprint it is on the fuel. Electric cars are generally better, but they're even better when they go on green current than when they go on gray current. Hydrogen cars are better when they go on green hydrogen than when they go on black hydrogen. Corresponding to biogas in relation to fossil gas: A biogas car will be a car certified to have filled biogas, not fossil gas. It can't be more difficult than what we do on customs or blue diesel or hundreds of other goods we have a certification that we know where it comes from.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6050	I'm not problematizing this wording in Rome's IV Decision to be difficult, but to know how to stick to the decision of the Stortinge, because it has consequences, what we're actually doing. But based on what Mr Stoknes said, and the representative on behalf of the Labour Party said earlier, at least I – unless someone now goes up and says something else – come to hold on to this as if the zero-emission objectives of the government are in respect of vehicle types, those in the NTP, should not be changed to include gas running gear. That is how I interpret it – unless the representatives Stoknes and Grung want me to interpret it in a different way. I'm saying, because it's like we have some targets that relate to zero emission fuels, energy operators, and then we can compare to biogas – absolutely. But we also have some objectives that relate to the percentage of vehicles, for example. at 50 pst. new trucks shall be a zero-emission vehicle in 2030, all new heavy goods vehicles shall be a zero-emission vehicle in 2030, and that 75 pst. new long-distance buses shall be a zero-emission vehicle in 2030. And neither now nor 2030 we see that a gas engine is going to be anything but one that can go on both natural gas and on biogas. That's how I can understand this, and it gives some kind of inner sense. But it is clear that if I misunderstand, the Stortinge to the representatives must take the floor and explain it, because in that case it will be useful. I will then interpret the intention in IV so that when it applies to zero emission targets where the energy carrier itself is involved, an attempt should be made to equalise biogas with zero emissions. It makes much more sense. To give an example: for a gas truck today, we actually do. It is not that, for gas vehicles, we have VAT exemptions or other special advantages, but when it applies to the biogas itself, it will not be subject to a user charge and CO 2 tax. While in the case of zero-emission vehicles – e.g. electric cars and hydrogen cars – they are exempt from VAT and have other special advantages because the vehicle itself is environmentally friendly. That guarantee does not include a gas engine. I don't understand the intent of Storting otherwise than that it must be the way it is to understand. In that case, I think that it is possible to stick to it. If not, I understand that a vehicle that should be able to run on fossil gas should be part of the goal that we have for different zero-emission vehicles and categories, and I don't think that's what the Stortinget mean – at least not as far as the representatives Grung and Stoknes say. If that's correctly understood, I'm happy for that. If I don't think we have to work a little bit further with a common understanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6060	I don't know exactly where to start. Every time we say "biogas vehicle", and when I hear the council talking, he says something about "gas vehicle". I don't understand that it can be so hard to understand that a biogas vehicle is a vehicle running on biogas. Then, in case you need advantages, you have to be able to certify it if you're asked if you've actually filled biogas or one. It is the industry and the biogas filling stations fully capable of doing so. There are a number of simple electronic accounting tools that can be used to tell you that this gas, it is biogas. If you haven't filled biogas today, but natural gas, then you can't demand non-discrimination, but when you've documented that you're running on biogas in let's say 90 pst. or 100 pst. of the year, there must be equal treatment with zero emissions, i.e. electricity and hydrogen, on the journey already made. So here I think the Council of State is creating unnecessary problems, and that 'biogas vehicle' has a crystal clear definition: so it's a vehicle running on biogas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6067	I can only agree with what the rapporteur just said. I really don't understand what's capable of messing it up then to those degrees. The most important thing is that we implement what we think we have adopted. I would like to make myself available to take a follow-up meeting afterwards, or if the Council of State can send over a note that says something about what is the challenge of understanding what we've put into it, because now we've been talking about biogas. The comments say that we need to ensure that it is sustainable biogas and that it is a challenge. Transport has been working for a long time to find out how to ensure equivalent follow-up conditions for a toll package here in the East. So I can't say anything more than that, I think we've been pretty clear – but we'd like to have a follow-up meeting here at Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6072	I think this is going to be worth the last post, because it doesn't seem like we're coming so much longer, but it's based on the fact that representatives Stoknes and Grung seem to think that there are biogas engines and fossil gas engines. It doesn't. There's a gas truck. If an e.g. For example, if you look at what the suppliers have to offer, you will find that: Scania offers great gas vehicles that you can buy. One of the major benefits of these benefits is that they can go on both fossil and natural gas. It also applies to other gas engines. I don't say this to talk about biogas or gas vehicles – on the contrary. I think it's great, it's good that people invest in it. I'm just trying to get an important point, and it's that if the Storting wants us, as a writing in this proposal for a decision, to equate biogas with zero-emission technology to all the goals of the government, for example. The NTP targets for a certain percentage of trucks, city buses and vans to be zero-emission vehicles in 2030 are a little difficult to understand how to do it at the level of vehicles. It is not difficult to understand how to generate biogas as an energy source, give it an advantage, give it support, build distribution networks – all it is very easy to understand – but it is now so that the reality is that driving can go on both sides. When we have a measure of that 50 pst. of trucks by 2030 should be zero-emission cars, it is then that if we add biogas, the goal is met by a purchaser of 50 pst. gas running gear? Or isn't it? It's a question that it should be possible to understand. It seems that the representative Stoknes thinks that there should be a solution by having a kind of reporting regime, where one should report the proportion of fuel used every day or every year, which is biogas or natural gas. It may be a safe attempt to establish, but in that case it will vary from week to week whether we have achieved that goal or not. I think there's a little bit of talk around each other, and I don't think there's any need to be party politics or any big disagreement here. I actually think we're quite a few about the goal. So I'm not taking the word now to be transverse or difficult or to be deeply party-politically inconsistent, because I really don't think we are. I'm just saying that when we have a range of different objectives and a request to change those objectives, it would be useful to know: to what? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6081	I understand and support the intention, but there are no biogas cars, so if we're going to do this the way it's put up here, it means that if I buy a fossil gas car or a fossil gas truck – which is an imminent risk of happening – I get the same benefits as buying an electric car or an electric car. That is what the proposal involves. This means that all fossil gas cars and fossil gas trucks are exempt from both one and the other, VAT, VAT, VAT, etc. It's a challenge, because no one in this room will. I understand that the proposers do not want to either. The challenge as I see it is that, as the representative Stoknes says, there are not many ways to figure out or systems for how to figure this out, because this is not something to figure out. Then we have to block a fossil gas car from being able to use fossil gas because all the fees are dropped because you have to use biogas. It's about when you buy the vehicle itself, it's not about the use, and it's a pretty big challenge to get there. I don't think it's as easy as the proposers think it is, so I think it's a little important that we don't decide that you can buy fossil gas cars and fossil gas trucks – and fossil gas tractors, for that matter – free of charge because we want to do the climate a service, because we don't. I think, as the Council of State also says, that we fully agree on that, but I think maybe it's hacked more complicated than the proposers think it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6090	I think maybe the detailed debate here is better suited for clarifying meetings than a lot of vocabulary in the staging room. But I'm just gonna give the council a little advice. If he's satisfied with NTP, for example, which says that 50 pst. of the vehicles shall be a zero-emission vehicle by 2030, the proposal for Decision IV is to amend the text from that 50 pst. – or whatever – of the vehicles shall be a zero-emission vehicle, so that 50 pst. of which they shall be a zero-emission and biogas vehicle. If then, as the council says, suddenly 50 pst. become a long-range gas transport vehicle, and then they run on natural gas, and the target has not been achieved. We know exactly every year how much biogas is sold, and how much natural gas is sold. So taking into account the ratio of biogas to natural gas is an absolutely affordable and clear calculation, and we haven't achieved the goal if you buy a lot of gas-powered vehicles. For the concept use, there shall be zero emissions and biogas. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6098	This was too interesting not to participate in – sorry. I do not fully understand the objections of the Council of State, either, because the government parties are on the proposal for Decision III, in which the government is asked to ‘safe non-discrimination of biogas vehicles with zero-emission vehicles on toll-funded routes’. That means that if you drive with biogas in the car through a bombardment that has an exemption from the electric car – or half price or 20 pst., which you discuss – it should also apply to the biogas car. Then, of course, you have to have a system that ensures that there is biogas on this car, not fossil gas. Getting such a system where – as you can get today – you can have it in the other areas as well. I saw that the councillor nodded – and then he shook his head. OK, that was a try.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6107	We're probably a little over in the department of diplomacy now, because I'm pretty sure the Storting agrees that one will have more biogas on the tank. And then I'm a little uncertain about what definitions the vehicle should have, and what categories of charges you should categorize it in. There will probably be a future dispute with the Ministry of Finance, as it has been, and even the Directorate of Financial Management is inside these discussions and helps us to hold back. But that's not what the Storting wants; we want more biogas on the tank because it helps us reduce the climate pressure. In my post I said that biogas is now certified by the Swan brand. It's a Nordic institution that works to help us have sustainable biogas production. Not all biogas producers have received e.g. Swan marking, so we have more alternatives here, including is giving incentives to those who are swan-marked, a good first step. Of course, it is possible to develop labelling schemes for the biogas, but there are not so many filling stations for natural gas today, so it is more important to bring up the number of filling stations for biogas. We all agree on that. It is the infrastructure that needs to be put in place regardless of how we can use the type of means of transport that can use biogas. And then we get to leave the other fuels alone a little bit, because we don't want that much on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6116	It's evolved into an interesting seminar, so far, but it's important, because it's important for me as the Council of State to know what the Greatness means when they're going to make decisions. It's probably not like some representatives say that now we're just going to adopt this right here, and then we're going to have to figure it out eventually. In that case, there is a somewhat unfortunate attitude to Storting's work, I believe, but of course Stortinget must be allowed to decide for himself. When Stortinget makes a decision, I take it very seriously, and I try to interpret it in the best possible way, even if someone believes it is the opposite. The representative Haltbrecken takes up what appears to be a paradox, and there is the difference between this with toll exemptions and other objectives. I say seemingly, because this is just the challenge you've had to do this, because at least there's no way to know today if a vehicle that passes the bombing, goes on natural gas or on biogas. Therefore, I know that some of the things that have been distributed and looked at are the possibility of some sort of reimbursement scheme instead, where a document what fuel you have actually used, and get it refunded. It may be possible to work, it may have to work on, but it is not possible to reimburse actual costs based on the demonstrable use of fuel but to set a vehicle target differentiated on something that makes no difference, namely whether a gas engine in the future will run on natural gas or biogas. If so, will one sign a declaration in it a buyer of the vehicle? That's where the difference lies. It may be perceived as a detail, but it probably isn't. I can only see that as long as I still think it's pretty unclear if Stortinget wants us to change the running noise measurement in NTP. I still hear the representative Stoknes repeat that there should be a biogas run, so I keep repeating that there is no biogas run, there is a gas run. I understand that one would like to produce biogas, and I agree with that, but then I also get to repeat my point that then it is generally more targeted and effective to go on the energy carrier, not the engine, because the engine is equal in any case. The representative Kjeseth is right that there are not so many natural gas filling stations and a lot of natural gas in use in vehicles today, even if there is something. But I want to remind the story that what we are adopting now concerns different objectives, not just road traffic. Within shipping there is a high use of natural gas. Biogas has great potential there, but so far a lot of natural gas is currently being used. Does Stortinget think that then the aim of shipping is to keep it going, for example.? I'm just saying that this is a problem option one with the advantage should have gone a little deeper into committee work. I mean to remember that I also informed Storting about this through my answers to the committee, and we hope that they have been well read. Now, at least we've got a round on this, and if it's agreed, I'm only going to see that we're going to have to go some clarification rounds, but of course with all the best intentions ahead, because I agree with the majority that we're going to produce biogas in Norway. I'm very much for it. This is a discussion of what is the wise way to do it, which replaces fossils, does not promote fossils.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6129	Before the council took the word, I was uncertain, but now I'm a little bit more in doubt. However, I am beginning to understand why we have not succeeded with biogas in Norway. We live in a trust society. We have biodiesel, with incorporation requirements. I'm not losing my mind to check how much biodiesel and fossil diesel are on it. I assume that there is a trust relationship, that some supplier has to prove that he has purchased the x number of the biodiesel corresponding to the other. We need to be able to do this – and solve – also with biogas. I had a problem about the CO 2 tax at Figjo porcelain factory. I expect that factory to go on natural gas as well as on biogas. But if we don't settle the situation, even in the industry, where I understand it's a problem, if we don't get to biogas, it becomes so expensive that you choose to use fossil fuel instead. We have to be able to see that whole thing and try to make some roofs, so that the biogas comes onto the market and becomes a product that can be demanded and supplied, that demand and production become so large that this is more attractive to more people, because the price goes down. We're in 2021. Is this what should span the legs for an increased biogas bet? I must almost say to the Council of State that if he is afraid that someone thinks he is difficult, I will support him in it. He is.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6141	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 25-digit number
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6158	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, there will be up to seven lines with replies from members of the government, and those who have to sign up for the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6165	Little is as beautiful as Norwegian nature, but nature is more than that. Nature is the most important thing we have, it's the whole basis of our lives. That's the air we breathe, the food we eat, the water we drink, and the money we earn. Norway has the welfare level we have today, because of nature, and because we have harvested it. We're going to keep doing that, but we're going to have to change the way we do it. The slightly immature approach that Red chooses in his proposal is to think that nature cannot be used sustainably. The only good thing is to stop doing everything – unless the state does, then. Then Red shows up from his true side. Neither the climate nor the environment is particularly important. In fact, our economy depends on nature, but not on using it up, as we've done up to now. We have to use nature more sustainably. Our economic growth, and therefore our future well-being, depends on it. We need to implement new solutions, and not just new technologies and innovation in development, because it doesn't last. We have to build smarter, and we have to weigh the value of nature heavier. A possible solution to this is developing several places in the world: so-called natural property valuation systems. I know that most people who are not concerned with the climate and the environment think there is a lot of secrecy in the UN and the EU. If there's anyone who listens, who thinks so, they get their ears closed now. Both the UN and the EU have developed methods to calculate precisely the value of nature. And I'm sure more people are wondering, "Well, what does that even mean?" It basically means getting numbers of what the natural resources have been, so we can make more profitable and more natural decisions. This is real capitalism 2.0., everything Red loves to hate – or change to preserve, that we in the Right are concerned about. It's the well-known sphere frame that we in the Right love, but we're not allowed to talk about, really, the green sphere frame, that can help us appreciate nature. Coca Cola is one of the companies that's done this. They've done it since 2016. They do it in Andalucia, for example, where water has been a very limited natural resource. Although the strawberries from Andalucia are not my favorite, they have managed to grow them with less water, to less stress on nature, and to higher income for farmers. That's the kind of cheek eggs we have to develop. We're going to continue building nutrition, and we're going to continue building cabins and roads all over Norway, but we have to make it more sustainable. We need to ensure real green growth that does not go at the expense of nature, and we can do that if we are willing to use the tools that can make it both more profitable and more natural. It's about being able to capitalize on the value of nature, and in a way that makes it pay to take care of nature. That means we have to be willing to reward those who do. To take care of the climate and nature, we need to create values, jobs and well-being. We have the resources, but we have to use them even better than we do today, without building up nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6178	I think the representative Lene Westgaard-Halle made a good point about nature and how we should value it better. I think she kept the same post at the Right Country Meeting, and I think the Right Country Meeting voted down that proposal. But I encourage her to just keep working for it, because I think it's a good suggestion, and I hope that the Right also gradually comes up with better thoughts, and that Westgaard-Halle gets more insight into the Right. The Labour Party has been called for, among other things: to have a natural risk selection, which shall demonstrate the risk associated with the destruction of Norwegian nature by Norway. The government has previously put together a climate risk committee, which has been very successful and has provided a good basis for discussions. We believe that we should do the same by nature. It is very good that the Storting has spent several weeks discussing nature, because it is the most under-communicated environmental problem facing the world – perhaps the most under-communicated problem facing the world at all. I would like to thank Red for making some proposals, because when you make proposals, it becomes a debate. So there were probably none of the parties in the committee, or in the Stortinget, except for Red, who thought those proposals were particularly well formulated. None of those proposals are addressed by our parties, but we have now used this opportunity to promote a few other proposals. The Labour Party, together with the SV and the Greens, is promoting three proposals today. The first is that we want to strengthen the work of mapping Norwegian nature. Then we get to know more about what is our most valuable nature, and we also get to know where the less valuable nature is, which means that we can avoid conflicts just by knowing where it is possible to expand for the future. The second is that we believe that the government should make proposals on how we can secure even more cultivated land and important natural areas in the context of development projects than we do today. And the last proposal that the Workers' Party has tabled today, together with the SV and the Greens' Environment Party, is that we ask the government to review protection plans and make proposals that quickly ensure the protection of areas of nature that are not well protected today. We have a number of arrangements today that protect our nature, but we also know that there are some areas that fall outside. So it's a proposal the Labour Party is promoting today. And with that, I take up the suggestions that the Workers' Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6193	The representative of Åsmund Aukrust has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6198	As the Aukrus representative pointed out, several of the issues in the proposal for a representative today concern important areas in isolation, but which, in the proposals that have been promoted, do not give the overall approach to the major issues raised, which means that we can participate in them. The centre party is in a historical line that's about the use of nature, a historical line that breaks with the consumption of nature, because our line is about managing nature at its best for its descendants. Several of the traditional consumption parties have now begun to see the consequences of their own policies. Unfortunately, the answer from the consumption batches is one-sided protection. The center party thinks it's the wrong medicine. We are sure that people will continue to live off and in line with nature in the future, and that the basis for assessment related to land use and nature management must be based on a politically neutral knowledge base that enables natural values to be balanced and protected against the action or activity necessary to enable people to live and operate in that country. The center party is very concerned about taking care of the food soil, but we also have clockwork on the local self-government's ability to regulate this for ourselves. We now see that the degradation of food soils goes down, as the focus around the problem rises. Land use and natural interventions arethroughlined in this country. We are in doubt as to whether more investigations and the establishment of more systems and organisational models for further nature monitoring are actually necessary or will solve the problems that today's proposal for a representative is dealing with. The centre party is committed to obtaining production to get people what they need for living. Natural processes, photosynthesis, produce renewable natural resources in the sea, in the forest and on the earth. In the view of the Centre Party, it is essential that the production takes place in such a way that the interaction of nature is ensured, and thus production can be eternal. The management mindset is fundamental to the views of the Centre Party on the use of nature, and it is not right or wise to take advantage of such use, as it would impose greater pressures on other areas or, as today, on fossil carbon, and on the climate problems that arise with it. When we as elected representatives protect an area, it must also be followed up by a management plan, so that the clearly defined objective is met. Such a management plan should not be put out to tender but should be realised by public bodies or NPISHs on a long-term basis. We have also put forward a proposal on this, and I will bring it up to the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6215	The representative Ole André Myhrvold has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6220	I noticed that we had both the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Climate and Environment in the Chamber. It gave me a very golden opportunity to raise a question about transport and land. The Environment Council writes very well in its letter. There's a lot of nice rhetoric in the letter to the committee. But what I've seen is that those who are concerned with degradation of Norwegian nature and areas, in the Environment Committee, may have a hard job ahead of them talking to their representatives in the Transport Committee. I also believe that the Council of State which manages nature in this country must also talk to the Council of State that manages transport in this country. Because what we see and are witnessing now – with the decline of Norwegian nature and Norwegian cultivated land and the expansion of the road network we have seen in the last eight years – has been enormous. And we've been on autopilots on highways all along, whether they're needed or not. Those who are concerned with the degradation of Norwegian nature must be concerned. These are huge areas that we're talking about. I can take a lot of examples of that. We've had some expansions that have been done by New Veier AS. New Veier has in a way become the satellite, it's been the tool for the degradation of Norwegian nature, on a scale we haven't seen before. This must also be addressed by the representatives of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to their colleagues in the Committee on Transport. I can read a quotation that's pretty interesting, and then you can wonder who's writing this. This concerns the E6 project between Åsen and Steinkjer. ‘The measure is also expected to affect 83 cultural sites with 114 cultural memories of national importance, one km 2 with important/especially important habitat types, 1494 habitats for species of large/particularly large national administrative interest, 33 km 2 with grazing and/or cultivated land [[...]] Who's writing this, President? I don't know if you have any idea? It's New Veier. They write this sea, and yet the government is in favour of a large-scale expansion of the E6 northwards from Trondheim and does not think of the railway being the alternative instead. What is happening in this country with the scaling of roads? Here, state councils need to talk together if they are really serious about taking care of nature and land, and if we dare – with respect – to look at the results of the Natural Panel, also under the UN administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6240	Should the representative address the proposal SV is part of?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6245	I'm dealing with the suggestions that we're part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6250	The representative Arne Nävra has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6256	We are totally dependent on nature around us to survive, but today the resources are consumed to achieve short-term profit, unfortunately without regard to future generations. The resources are all the nature that is around us, from the butterflies in the flower bed in the backyard to the few areas that are untouched that we still have in Norway. They have to be taken care of by stopping the degradation of our nature, which we see is happening at an excessive pace today. Today’s government has opened up to build up a lot of nature through the liberalisation of the legislation — it has even instructed the state administrator to raise fewer objections to the municipal decision to reduce nature. And time and time again, nature loses when the government wants to build highways, cabins or allow larger free slips in the beach zone. Then what's our basis of life is eaten up a bit by bit. It is still possible to create a society that takes nature into account and that also gives people high quality of life, but then resources must be governed within the limits of nature's tolerances and not according to the need of capitalism for both eternal and ever-increasing economic growth. We need to ensure diversity by ensuring that the species that make up the ecosystems have enough space to live, not just to survive at the limit of extinction on what are small residual areas. Cabin areas, shopping centres, industrial areas, motorways and other expansions are often unspoiled and without overall plans and are constantly forming new encroachment in a shrinking nature. Instead, we have to build on areas that are already in use, for example. by improving existing roads and ensuring traffic safety over new roads and by investing in public transport instead of building new and extremely expensive eight-field motorways where there is a thin traffic base, in order to reach the target a few minutes faster. We also want an area-neutrality principle in Norway to avoid destroying more nature, and we want to ensure that shopping centres cannot be built on agricultural land or untouched nature, and to have a construction ban on wetlands. It is good, we think, that the Workers' Party, SV and the Greens' Environment Party maintain some of our proposals, but we do not think they go far enough to safeguard nature in their own proposals. It's fine with a zero vision, but we also have to have concrete demands and tools to make sure we don't lose any more nature. With that, I maintain the Red's proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6267	Then the representative Björn Moxnes has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6272	We are facing a global natural crisis. Fortunately, in Norway, we still have a lot of nature, but we are also gradually missing more natural areas. In the future, we need more nature, not less nature, and to get it to work, the government is wide and active. We work, for example. to allow the municipalities in land planning to use already developed areas instead of building new, pristine areas. We have provided clear guidance on this both in the national expectations for regional and local planning and in the State planning guidelines for coordinating housing, land and transport planning. I would also like to refer to the climate plan, where we announce that we are going to work to reduce the decline of ants by planning according to the planning and building laws and, where appropriate, other priority measures. The government also works to ensure that municipalities can make good decisions when it comes to alternative land use. In 2021 we have created a separate scheme for the municipalities that will create its own municipal plan for nature. By making such plans, the municipalities, politicians and administration, and of course also the inhabitants, will have increased knowledge and competence about the nature of their own municipality, and how they can take care of it in planning. A good knowledge base is important in all land use decisions. Last year we launched the portal for organic base maps. The portal collects and makes available the knowledge we need when we're going to decide how to use the space, for example. is for food, road or shelter. At the same time, the Environment Directorate continued to monitor nature by nature in Norway, in line with the 2015 Storing Decision. The knowledge collected will also help to create a possible future spatial calculation that will provide an overview of the amount of natural resources we have at any time in Norway. The Environment Directorate delivered a report last year that provides an overview of what we have today and what is missing. The Ministry of Climate and Environment will now assess the issues closer. The government is also continuing to work to preserve a representative selection of Norwegian nature. Work is in progress on the conservation of valuable nature. This shall contribute to the protection of nature which is not adequately represented in the existing protection area. The authorisations to forest protection are significantly increased under this government, and by April 2021 is about 5.1 pst. protected by the forest. In 2020, the government established a new marine protection area, more than a double, and earlier this year, we presented to the Stortinget a holistic national plan for the conservation of important marine sites. The number of selected cultural landscapes is double, from 22 in 2013 to 46 in 2020. In addition, the government is making an effort to repair previous interferences in nature. We restore, among other things, nematode and watercourse nature. A separate wetland restoration plan for 2016-2020 was created and the plan is now updated to 2025. I share Mr Moxnes' concern about the natural disaster. So the government takes a number of important and proper steps to take care of nature, and we're going to continue with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6291	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6296	Organic base maps shall satisfy society’s needs for good and up-to-date knowledge of nature. In the opinion of the Centre Party, the monitoring of natural diversity must be carried out in accordance with general standards of value neutrality and quality — Nature in Norway, NiN. To achieve this, the ecological base map to be provided by the Art Database must be an ‘er map’, which describes natural characteristics in the same objective way as topographical maps and rock maps. Do the Councils agree to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6301	I'm for one to have objective representations of nature, of course. I'm a little uncertain about what a criticism of ecological base maps actually lies in the question. It may be extended to include the representative of Lundtigen if he is able to do so. I mean that the natural mapping in Norway is done with adequate value neutrality and definitely with quality. Publicly funded nature monitoring takes place by nature in Norway, as determined by the Stortinget in 2015, and the aim of the survey is to ensure good and up-to-date knowledge that will lead to planning. Competence requirements apply to nature type mapping charters, methods are standardised with complete digital data flows and results available to all. It gives transparency, it gives transparency and allows verification. I believe that nature in Norway is well suited to this purpose, and I also believe that ecological base maps are valuable in the planning of land for local politicians, ordinary people, organisations and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6308	The Council of State does not answer the question. After the assessment of the Centre Party, a consistent and clear distinction must be drawn between the production of knowledge, i.e. the production of the ecological base map, and the use of this knowledge, whether from the Directorate for the Environment, Agriculture or Norway's Watercourse and Energy Directorate. The Environment Directorate has developed its own monitoring instructions, and from the State Manager, for example: in Oslo and Viken, it says: ‘The selection of nature-type mapping areas shall focus on areas (b) where habitat types can be expected to be identified by the Directorate-General for Environment’s mapping instructions.’ [[...]] Does the Council of State think that this mapping gives us an ecological base map?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6322	I have to admit that I think it is a bit demanding to get a grip on the question. I know that the representative Lundtigen has asked me a similar question before, and I think I would ask him to put it in more detail in writing, and then I would promise a full answer. I cannot see that I have received such a written question. I can't say anything but that the instructions given here are reasonable to refer to in these contexts, and that a driver with this type of mapping is good in the Viking and old Busherud, too. In addition to that, I have to admit that I think it is a bit demanding to understand what is being asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6329	Yes, this is demanding, but the Council of State is responsible for the system that is now being practised. Now we have a system where one goes away from the base of the ecological base map which is going to be objective, scientific, which is going to be an er map in the same way as a quaternary geologic map. Then one goes to a mapping method that is the mapping method of the Environment Directorate, and it's called NiN according to the Environment Directorate's instructions. These are two different things. It is quite surprising that the State Council has not made this clear, that the Environment Directorate is now monitoring through the state administrators, something other than the Stortinget wanted as the ecological base map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6336	I understand that the representative Lundtigen thinks, is that as long as the Environment Directorate is involved, it is not scientific. Then I believe that I interpret the question in the best possible sense. I have to admit that at least there's not a reality description that I take too good fish here and now, or that it's going to be contrary to some of the intentions of what the Storting has agreed. I think I repeat my invitation to ask myself a written question, and then I am happy to come back to this in detail. Right here and now I thought the question was a little demanding to get hold of, and I don't think I should go into more detail in my answers until I have got hold of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6343	In the climate debate, we are now discussing the term ‘net zero emissions’. We are also facing a serious natural crisis, which the Council of State is aware of, where land changes, interference in nature, are the ones that threaten species diversity most today. Unfortunately, it is not likely that any of the proposals we are making today will have a majority, but can the Council of State imagine starting to work with a net-zero vision for nature, as we have for the climate, so that if a road is to be built, if an intervention is to be done, the builder must provide for a restoration of a similar natural area somewhere else, as an example?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6349	Yes, I thought absolutely the way to think about it is interesting, and we do have some variants of this today, and they work relatively well. We have e.g. a system of ecological compensation, as a utility in individual cases where a person enters a very valuable natural area. That's good. We use considerable resources to restore both watercourse nature and drained ants. It also works well. There's more of a money question about how much you can do there in a year, but that's where we've at least increased the permits in the last few years, and I think you can use that thinking in several areas, so I think absolutely, as the representative asks, that there's a fancy way to think about it. What's usually a little bit difficult in these situations is what's an ecological value. That's a slightly demanding question. It depends on the nature we talk about, who should be responsible, etc. In the climate plan, we have said that we will look further at the issue of land tax, so this is absolutely a discussion that I am involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6356	I thank you for your answer. That was a slightly uplifting answer. It is clear that if such a target is to be introduced, there must be some requirements imposed on the builder. In a way, we need to introduce a polluter-pays principle also on behalf of nature. But I also have another question, which we address in the setting, and it goes on the quality of the nature studies, the impact assessments, that are made of different designs. We have seen several times that there have been no surveys of investigators, which have allowed a measure, perhaps erroneously, to be developed. Since we do not get a majority in favour of our proposal today, what will the Council of State do to improve the quality of these impact assessments?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6363	Thank you for enough a good question. We're working all the time to make sure that the impact we have in Norway is better. If they're ever good enough, it's probably an important discussion, but at least they have to be better and better. In April, therefore, we commissioned the Environment Directorate to assess the main challenges and the actions they will take, both in the short term and in the long term, in order to improve the impact. Together with the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, we continue to develop the guide on impact assessments, and before Christmas, the Directorate of the Environment and the Riksantikvaren presented a new methodology for dealing with environmental issues in impact assessments. In February, Multiconsult delivered a report to us, which was commissioned by us, with an assessment of the content of impact assessments and actions for the last five years. It gives an important boost to the knowledge we already have, and is also partly critical of how things are done, compared between areas, and of course we need to look closer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6368	One thing is the degradation of nature, another thing is to take care of nature, use nature, use the tree, take care of the forest and the forest industry. That's important for the green shift. I wonder a little about a project that I know the minister knows well, and it is cleaning up the returns. Forestia is one of those who's been working on it for a long time, recycling three. It's actually a brilliant thought, because then a CO 2 bonds forever, one can say, and one uses the forest, the tree and nature in a positive way. The majority has decided, as far as I can remember, even almost unanimously, that the government should support projects that Forestia is working on and wants to realise. But for the time being, Forestia is pretty well stuck in the red tape jungle, quite simply, a young boy of bureaucracy, and is sent here and there, and nothing happens. So my question is, what does the Minister do specifically to ensure that Forestia is supported, so that they can get on with the project that we're all really engaged in?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6378	I agree that the project in Forestia is an exciting project. I have had a meeting with them myself and got it explained in detail, and I found it very exciting and important with what they are trying to get. I have of course also noticed that Stortinget has agreed – I do not think exactly the wording, but it is at least decided that projects of that type are important to support. I could agree on that. What is a bit demanding is that neither the accumulation nor the government usually goes in and provides direct support to individual companies. We have an instrument tool – so that you can keep it a little at arm's length – that evaluates good applications, and it's both Innovation Norway's job, and it's Enova's job, a little depending on what kind of project it's about. And as far as I've understood here, they've probably sought support from both of them. So I don't think I can go any further into the proceedings for this, but I have no problem joining that representative says that this is an exciting project, and that one is working well. I can also say that I agree that I hope that it will be realised, and I hope that many such projects will be realised in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6391	This weekend, the state council told the NRK that we have built too much nature around the country, and that we have to stop that, but the government hasn't done much to reverse the trend. They have abolished the INON concept as a tool in land policy, liberalising motor travel in nature. So I guess Solberg himself has also said that the hub, which is among the country's most threatened birds, is in the way of building homes. The government has also dramatically increased the construction of polluting motorways and created New Roads, which we have seen rolling over local democracy in many important municipalities. It may seem that the government is not so concerned about stopping the loss of nature in practice. Why does the Council of State not want to ensure conservation by also ensuring spatial neutrality?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6396	It is very rare for the government to agree that one should build nature. Land policy is very much located in the municipalities and in the local self-government of this country. Of course, the representative of Moxnes knows that well, as a long-standing local politician. So the question is, how far will the government go in overcoming the municipalities in degradation of nature? We see that in some areas we need stricter rules. For example, I just sent a letter to the municipalities and underlined the importance of not building up more moors in order to take out more peat, as the government considers a ban on that kind of new extractions, for example. So we're sending expectations, and sometimes even impositions and prohibitions, to the municipalities all the time. So it's enough that if you're for or against building down nature, a little too often depending on what purpose it is. Someone is very against wind power and very for cottage villages, someone thinks the opposite. Someone is very much for the railway and very towards the road, someone thinks the opposite. I think we have to assume that the degradation of nature is problematic in any case. And I'm because we protect nature stronger than we do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6401	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6408	This summer it is actually 30 years since I linked myself for the first time in the fight to take care of Norwegian nature. The state today is more serious for nature than it was 30 years ago. That's how the rapporteur said in his statement that nature is the food we eat, the water we drink, that's the houses we live in, that's the clothes we wear, that's the money we earn. Too often we don't know what we're losing when we're building down nature. We don't have names for all the thousands of species that exist in Norwegian nature today, and that's just a small part of them that we know the state of. And when we don't know what we lose when we build down nature, it's the impact assessments and the companies that are behind them, that have to take some of the blame for it. We have seen several things, including: in several hydropower cases, that the natural mappings carried out were too poor. When they were followed by biologists hired from environmental organisations, more natural values were found than the development interests said they were in the area. For some of these cases it has been important to get this screening. In the old Hordaland state, instead of building down the Baltic Sea basin, it has led to a unanimous accumulation of the protection of the Baltic Sea watercourse, precisely because information was given on the table that there were several natural values in this area. I get to withdraw just that with that it was a unanimous big thing, for it was probably not quite unanimous, but it was at least a solid majority who stood behind the situation. This also shows some of what I raised in my question to the Council of State, the importance of having stricter legislation linked to those who make these investigations. We should look at whether companies that repeatedly report under-values should still be able to be recognised as investigators in important matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6417	It is very important to discuss the concept of ‘nature’. The Labour Party, SV and the Greens have a proposal entitled: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen its efforts to identify all nature in Norway in order to safeguard the valuable nature.’ Here are two key concepts: ‘monitoring nature’ and ‘safe nature’. In the opinion of the Centre Party, mapping nature must be done to a large extent in a way that is objective and verifiable, that is to say an ecological base map, which becomes an ‘er map’, in the same way that geologists have mapped the rock and obtained a geological map, and quater geologists have mapped loose mass depositions and obtained a quater geological map. A map must be recognised by all users. This is not the case today, because today the mapping methodology has been developed according to the Environment Directorate's instructions. It is as unobjective as that the Directorate of Agriculture should have a survey according to the direction of the Directorate of Agriculture. Point 2, in terms of ensuring the valuable nature: one can secure nature by taking nature out of use. Then we have to discuss: what should be protected? Why should it be protected? How is it to be protected? And where is it to be protected? What is then going to have to be managed afterwards in an eternal perspective, so that the purpose is cared for. It is not then possible to submit tenders, as is the case today, where a change of practitioners is made at regular intervals. It must be a long-term administration, and it can be done through NPISHs or through the public, following the assessment of the Centre Party. Then we have the eternal use. There is talk here as if nature has not been used in Norway. Nature must be used. It is the central thing in the green shift that a user uses nature, uses nature whether it is sea or land, produces more renewable carbon through photosynthesis both to land and to water — cod, timber and timote. But it has to happen in an eternal way. What we're talking about here in terms of nature is a use where you have areas of expansion. Then one has to say it. There are areas of expansion that a seafarer has to discuss, because there is one that goes away from photosynthesis and nature as it has been until today. It is very important to discuss at a higher level, I feel, than what the Storting usually discusses these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6434	To the post from the last speaker, my good colleague Lundtägen, who comes from the same state as I: here enough SV and the Senterpartie team distinguish significantly, yes. In the case of biological registration and screening, there is only one type of good screening, only one, and that is the professional biological screening. There is no one else — everything else is customs and clothing — it is the professional biological survey that has objectives. As far as I know, the Directorate for the Environment is a specialist, and it's a departmental directorate – I've read it to myself. At least it is not the Ministry of Agriculture, which in many ways is a Ministry of Food. This was a strange description of the representative Lundtigen. It is too bad registrations, and it is behind the proposals that are in the Chamber, both from Red and from SV and the others. It is too bad to record – we have seen it once after a time – and two to three days of studies are done on projects almost in the billions class. How is that possible? In the case of forest, as I know the representative Lundtigen knows well, it was largely done by the accountants from the industry. That's what's part of the background of the criticism, and it's called the goat and oatmeal. We know this, that's the background for this: independent biologists have found a bunch of red-listed species, for example. in the area around the Foll Sea at Notodden, which had not been able to register the industry. It tells us what's the seriousness of this situation. We're missing out on knowledge without just objective records. We do that all the time. So we have to get objective, biological, scientific surveys done by professionals – and they are biologists, to a large extent. Sometimes proper registrations are made, e.g. in the case of the ice edge. There the government actually turns its back on the professionals when they first have that knowledge, but usually it's not like that. Usually we don't have enough knowledge. That's where the shoe presses. I noticed that Westgaard-Halle's representative had a green marble frame. I think that in the case of transportation, as I was in the past, at least her colleagues use her largely the blue and to a large extent the black frame, which mirrors the asphalt. I just want to repeat that in the transport sector, we may have the worst in terms of the degradation of nature today, and that is the huge expansion of motorways. Remember, after our manuals, we turn in four-field motorways based on traffic volumes that are much lower than those of our neighbouring country. Why is that? I have asked myself many questions about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6447	The President would point out that the term ‘customs and clothing’ is not to be regarded as an acceptable parliamentary practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6452	It is quite right, as the representative Nävra says, that the centre party and SV separate layers on this issue. But what do we separate layers of? What we distinguish layers on does not apply to a survey of nature in Norway. The centre party wants one to map nature in Norway, because it is important, just as it is important to map quater geology. But that mapping must, through the ecological base map, be objective, scientifically and verifiable, and that charter must have confidence in all users, in all directorates. The various Directorates, whether the NVE, the Norwegian Watercourse and Energy Directorate, the Electricity Directorate, the Agriculture Directorate or the Environment Directorate, can also have their surveys based on their objectives. However, what is the problem today is that the Ministry of the Environment, which is responsible for monitoring, uses a mapping methodology that has gone away from what was the objective, scientific and verifiable, NiN as developed by the Natural History Museum in Oslo, and across to NiN according to the Environment Directorate’s instructions. It's exactly the same as having a mapping according to the Agriculture Directorate's instructions. This is the core of the matter. This leads to so much conflict on this issue, because there is a purpose that is not objective from the very beginning. It is not an ‘er map’, as the Quaternary Geological Map is, but it is a ‘Borse Map’. «Er» and «Bor» are incredibly important in the theory of science. This is where the Size must have a basic discussion if this is to continue. If it continues as it is today, it will tear down the confidence in the mapping, because the mapping is not objective. I can assure the representative that I have been so lucky to be able to participate in seeing the result of a control measurement. The result, that is, what the Environment Directorate's instructions give, and what NiN gives, which is an 'er map', was that the maps are completely different. It's going to happen. There will be an important discussion in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6461	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6478	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6485	Inner. 447 S for 2020-2021 contains four proposals for representatives with the common denominator driving licences. One of the proposals is to phase out the dot load system in road traffic. The impact was introduced 17 years ago and has contributed to fewer road traffic accidents. The left and my assessment is that this system has worked well as intended, and we want this system to continue. This shall divide the majority of the Committee. Document 8:202 S for 2020-2021 contains follow-up decisions to repeal the health certificate for older drivers and that the government is to implement this amendment by 1 August. This proposal shall have a majority within the Committee. Earlier this year, it was decided to repeal health certificates for older drivers, and the majority now requests implementation by 1 August, although the Council of State has notified an investigation for a proper transition to the current provision. I see that the majority believe there is a solid background of fact in order to be able to cancel today's system without further investigation. This reason is what I'm most responding to. During the examination of the case earlier this year, reference was made to a dubious Swedish investigation and other countries' legislation on this matter. In Norway, we have completely different ambitions about road safety than many other countries, and we have achieved very good results. Today's legislation on health certificates provided by the prescriber has been revised in recent years, and I think it is important to evaluate today's system based on Norwegian circumstances. Then there is a proposal from a representative to allow driving licences for categories T and B to be issued with a category BE licence, i.e. the right to drive a passenger car with a trailer. This proposal does not have a majority. Here is the main reason of the majority of the committee that driving a car with a trailer requires a completely different knowledge from driving a tractor with a trailer. The tractor driver often controls slow speed and reversing in an excellent way, but when the speed starts to approach 80 and perhaps 100 km/h, there are completely different skills that a passenger driver must have. This knowledge must be learned and examined. It should be necessary to take a specific test in order to drive a passenger car with a trailer and not be an automatic test for those entitled to drive a tractor. In the fourth proposal that we are considering today, the proposers will introduce category B1 driving licences for quadricycles for 16-year-olds. There is a possibility in the EEA Regulation to introduce a national driving licence category, but few countries have done so, and in those countries where this is legal for 17- and 18-year-olds, few take this driving licence. The worst thing about introducing a specific class for these vehicles, if any, is that 16-year-olds may be entitled to drive a four-wheel section which may run for up to 90 km/h. Accident rates, and especially mortality rates, have decreased in all age groups in this country, except for 15- to 17-year-olds. We probably have to work for a safer driving behaviour for this age group rather than allowing more speed. It is always exciting to discuss driving licence policy. There are clear points of view and many different interests. It is therefore very important that our legislation can be understood by its citizens and that it is based on knowledge. I believe that the changes in the provisions on driving licences proposed by the one representative proposal should not be implemented. It is unfortunate that a majority will now implement the abolition of health certification requirements for older drivers without further investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6502	As the rapporteur says, we have put together four proposals for representatives in a debate. As the rapporteur, I would like to make proposals to show the views of the Labour Party. First, the proposal to terminate the peak load system in traffic with effect from 1 July. The dot load system was introduced 17 years ago and has been evaluated twice since its introduction. The system works as intended. It is preventative, predictable and easy to deal with for all road users, and most importantly it contributes to increased road safety. So to Document 8:202 S for 2020-2021, to implement decisions to lift the requirement of a health certificate for older drivers. In this respect, the Stortinget has already taken a decision, and the Labour Party is here to clarify that the decision will be implemented by 1 August at the latest. The argument has not changed since we discussed the matter last time. When a person is deprived of the licence due to, for example: dementia, it's not age, but the disease does. Today, we burden the health service with checking many healthy, up-and-coming people because of age and not disease. The working party believes that the health service should rather spend its time on those who are sick, regardless of age. The working party is definitely concerned with road safety. Today we have a compulsory health certificate system, and despite that there are drivers who should not have a driving licence. As I said, the majority has made its decision. Rather, let's use resources on a system that is not age-discriminatory. Older people are not overrepresented in accident statistics. Sweden and Denmark do not have a compulsory health certificate. So to the proposal to introduce category B1 driving licence for a quadricycle for 16-year-olds. In that case, it would mean that a vehicle of category B1 would differ significantly from the ATVs registered as a tractor or moped. The Labour Party therefore does not support this proposal. So to the last proposal, Document 8:203 S for 2020-2021, which is about to allow passing of category T and B driving licences to qualify for category BE. There are large differences in the permitted speed for the two categories of driving licences, 40 and 80 km/h respectively. In addition, a rule change is now considered to allow speeds up to 100 km/h for category BE licences. In addition, through the EEA Agreement, Norway has undertaken to comply with the EU Directive on driving licences, and this also makes it impossible. So this proposal is not supported by the Workers' Party either.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6515	Today, as I said to the debate, we have four issues relating to driving licences: three representatives from the Progress Party and one from the Centre Party. I want to do something for the Right's view in these four matters. Document 8:202 S for 2020-2021, from the Progress Party, is about implementing decisions to repeal health certification requirements for older drivers. On 9 February 2021 we debated and decided on the proposal of the Socialist Left to lift the requirement of a health certificate for older drivers. This proposal was put to the vote. Right was a part of the minority that voted against this, with a background of traffic safety. After the decision, we received more than one input, from among others. Safe Traffic and the National Public Health Association, which express concerns about the decision and are of the opinion that other measures must be established to capture the driving skills of older drivers. The last time today, we received an e-mail from the Road Safety Selection in Trøndelag County, which expressed strong concern at the decision to lift the health requirement and urged that the case be settled before the entry into force of a decision. It is therefore reassuring that it is precisely what the Council of State wants: with the background of the Administration Act and the distribution instructions, make sure that a case is as well informed as possible before a decision is taken. It also applies to the follow-up to decisions taken by the Stortinget. Right is satisfied that the Council of State is working hard to ensure road safety, and the Right is sure that all parties are busy working for the zero vision, as the Stortinge decided 20 years ago. Document 8:201 S for 2020-2021 is about abolishing the dot tax and is from the Progress Party. The dot tax system was introduced in 2004 and has gradually been extended from a breach of speed limits to more and more infringements of traffic rules. The background to the introduction of the scheme was a desire to improve road safety and contribute to fewer road accidents. The system has been evaluated twice by the Ministry of Transport. The first two years as a new leader, the risk is particularly high for serious accidents. Right agrees that it is right to have special rules in the dot tax system to influence good and safe behaviour of young drivers. Right is of the opinion that this scheme refers to good results, and we see no reason to abolish the dot tax scheme. So to Document 8:203 S for 2020-2021, that passed classes T and B shall grant entitlement to driving licence category BE, a representative proposal from the Centre Party. It may seem like a logical proposal from the Centre Party here, but there are still moments when it is necessary to adopt this proposal to grant the right to drive a car with a trailer to all those who have a driving licence for a tractor and a driving licence for a car. What the proposers don't include is the moment of speed. Tractors can run at a legal speed of 40 km/h, while a passenger car with a trailer today can run for 80 km/h and it is estimated to increase to 100 km/h. With regard to road safety and the possible new speed limit, the Right will vote against the proposal of the Central Party. Finally, Document 8:248 S for 2020-2021, on driving licence category B1 for a four-wheel motorcycle for 16-year-olds, is from the Progress Party. The European Driving Licence Code allows the national State to introduce its own driving licence category for a quadricycle for 16-year-olds. Many countries, like Norway, have chosen not to introduce this class. The proposers would like us to use the national action space to have several categories of vehicles and age groups, and propose in the representative's proposal to introduce category B1 driving licence for a quadricycle for 16-year-olds. This age group is the most at risk of traffic accidents. Young drivers are more immature and willing to take risks. The exclusion statistics from 2019 show that in the 16–17 age group, work on road safety should be intensified. The number of deaths and serious injuries in this age group is at the same level as in 2010, while at the same time there has been more than a halve of deaths and severe injuries in the age group 18–19. Right is busy with traffic safety and is of the opinion that introducing a new driver card class for 16-year-olds does not strengthen the work on zero vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6532	Norway is one of the countries in the world which have decided the most severe reactions to speed violations or other infringements of the Road Traffic Act. In addition, we have a very strict and rigid dot load system. At the time of the introduction of the dot-load system, it was only concerned with serious speed violations, driving against red lights, illegal overruns and infringements of the rules on compulsory withdrawal, i.e. serious traffic offences. Now the system has become considerably more stringent, it has been gradually expanded, so now you get punishment for all sorts of traffic offences, regardless of whether they are large or small. Youth and those with a new driving licence are penalised twice, as they get double-counted with dots. Then the threshold for being deprived of the licence and losing the right to drive a car is very low. As a result, only minor infringements of the Road Traffic Act can lead to severe criminal reactions, and not only to the loss of a driving licence, but also to the loss of a job for those who depend on the driving licence to get to work or to carry out their job. So here it is said that dot load is a miracle agent that leads to fewer accidents. I hear there are several repetitions in this room, but I would like to point out that there is no clear evidence that it is only dots isolated that are the miracle medicine. That's the sum of all the different measures, which we're all pretty much in agreement with, which seem good and reduces the number of accidents. But that dots are so much better than, for example, Better roads, better driving training and better new, safe and safe cars — better than all the other road safety measures that we have gradually implemented over several years in Norway — there is no evidence. The sum of the measures works, there is no doubt about it, but that dots are a miracle medicine compared to other measures, is going to be completely wrong. Driving licences for elderly people, health certificates and the discriminatory cognitive test have become a repetition in this room. The case concerns several hundred thousand people who depend on driving licences and on cars to maintain the quality of life, to get around to friends and family and get to the store to do most of what they need in everyday life. We in the Progress Party have been working on this matter for many, many years, and we have received an infinite number of enquiries from very many older people who feel discriminated against and unfairly treated, older people who have been isolated, older people who have lost the spark of life, older people who are frustrated and depressed. Fortunately, it seems that this matter is being changed and adopted again, but I have to say that I am a little provoked, because the road safety card is also drawn in this case – it is like a kind of trump card that I feel that a lot of parties in this room use almost uncritically and try to play the opponent check with – while we are concerned about changes and minor adjustments within the road traffic law and other rules on driving licences or what it is, are stigmatised that we are not concerned about road safety. It's quite provocative, because we're all. I remember that after having had Minister of Transport from the Progress Party for many years, we have historically low accident rates, although for example we have. has increased speeds. I am not going to spend more time on that driving licence case for the elderly now, because we have discussed the facts in that matter a lot. We did that in winter, and we've done that several times before. But I would like to thank the Workers' Party and SV for not having ‘fucked out’ in this case, and that we now again ensure a majority for an exact date for when the demand for this strange discrimination against older drivers will cease. We have now set it to 1 August, and we expect the government to follow it up loyally, so that no older people will be required to be tested or to take a health certificate after this date. I would also like to remind you that neither our neighbouring countries nor other countries in Europe have such a test based on age, so I have to say that it is both surprising, disappointing and unacceptable that the government would not implement the decision to remove the health certificate requirement, but that it would only be investigated after the Stortinget had adopted it. I must also say that I am surprised and disappointed with the Center Party, which is not supporting us and the elderly in this matter, but rather prioritises supporting the bureaucrats and the government. I must say that is very disappointing. The attitude of the centre party in this case on driving licences for the elderly is even more strange since we are now also discussing a joint proposal from the Centre Party and the Advance Party that would have given persons with a driving licence category T tractor and a driving licence category B car right to a driving licence category BE – that is, a car with a trailer attachment and hanging up to 3.5 tonnes. 3 500 kilograms, that's a lot, and it's heavy, but I'll get back to that in the next article. I then take up the proposals of the Progress Party on the matter and proposal No. 3, from Bård Hoksrud and myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6551	The representative Tor André Johnsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6556	T+B=BE – and this calculator may have seen several of us together with a picture of a car with a trailer and a heavy tractor. T stands for tractor licence, B for car licence, and BE stands for car with heavy suspension. The center part thinks that this is true. We believe that if a person with a tractor licence is fit to drive a tractor with a trailer with a total authorised mass of 25000 kg, he is also fit to drive a passenger car and to tow a trailer with a maximum authorised weight of between 750 kg and 3500 kg. In the light of this, I refer to the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the combination of a category T driving licence and a category B driving licence is entitled to a category BE driving licence.’ With regard to Document 8:248 S concerning the introduction of category B1 driving licences for quadricycles for 16-year-olds, the Centre Party is in favour of measures that can make access easier and life better for people, but at the same time this must be weighed against road safety. The centre party sees no good reason why 16-year-olds should be able to drive a light motorcycle, but not four-wheeling at the same speed. However, the Centre Party considers that such a change should be the subject of an ordinary investigation so that all aspects of the case can be assessed before the change is made. Therefore, on behalf of the Centre Party, I address the following proposals: ‘The Government requests the introduction of category B1 with age limit of 16 years’.» In Document 8:201 S, the theme is dots. If you are registered with at least four dots, you get a letter of warning from the police to change the driving behaviour in order not to lose your driving licence. If you get eight dots in three years, you lose the right to drive for six months. And if you're in that trial period for the category B driver's right, you get twice the number of dots if you make mistakes that give dots during the trial period. These dots are an additional warning for those with the most recent certificates that lack driving experience and should absolutely run carefully. The center part doesn't want to remove the dots. They've been evaluated twice since the introduction 17 years ago, and they work as intended. To put this into perspective, this is the case for a speed violation between 16 and 20 km/h where the speed limit is 70 km/h or higher: if you run 20 km/h too fast there, you get two dots. If you have a speed violation of over 21 km/h where the speed limit is 70 km/h or higher, you get three dots. And if you go towards the red light, you get three dots. The aim is to increase road safety and the arrangements are to keep track of the situation. It is predictable and easy to deal with road users and contributes to fewer road accidents. As regards Document 8:202 S, the Central Party shall vote against the recommendation of the Committee. I understand that the Council of State needs a little time to implement that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6581	Then the representative Siv Mossleth has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6586	I will not say very much about several of these document 8 proposals in the case. In general, the SV and the Progress Party distinguish layers in the field of road safety thematic proposals or proposals that result in poor road safety, such as: higher speed, more liberal rules for driving licences and speed checks, e.g. Average Speed Controls – we separate layers on all of this. So there's one area where we've found something together, and it's a health certificate for the elderly, which is one of the things here today, and that's the one I'm going to comment on a little bit. I support the speeches by the other speakers who have been on the interlocutors before me, except for the Progress Party, on the other Document 8 proposals. In the case of a health certificate for the elderly, the Council of State has now had some. six months – or six months when we look at the new deadline, August 1. That should be enough to fit in a big decision on a topic that is very familiar. It's an area where you can see all the positions, you can see what's going on and what's been going on, you know the history, so it should be quite easy to respect the decision of the Storting in that case. Whether I should say anything about the content of it, it must be, as I also said in February, that this has not been an easy matter for SV, which is concerned with road safety. But what we want to stress is that we should never put an equal sign between the arguments that are being used, a high percentage of dementia among the elderly and the accident frequency. You never have to do that. It's not such an equal sign. The second big argument is that only this group is being taken out and in some ways special, with some tests or a review of the condition. If we look at the statistics, it's obvious that there's a very high proportion of traffic accidents among the young. There's no doubt about it. And we see that from the statistics. I have not noticed that there has been any proposal for a maturity test in the case of young people to prevent traffic accidents. I wouldn't have suggested it, either, but it's a close comparison to make. But you will continue to run a never so small race towards the elderly, who are so dependent on their certificate in the districts, and we have argued against this before. My point is also that the department took the initiative for a very large investigation – not the last time this was up, but the time before it again – it was well in 2019 this matter was up, and then it was on a proposal from the Central Party, I believe. Then an investigation was carried out, and then, in doubt, the recommendation was to raise the age limit for a health certificate from 75 to 80 years. One also had assessments of what is now here – and which was originally in the SV document 8 proposal in February – but it was therefore recommended to raise the age limit instead. That means there's been some research, there's been some research on this subject, and it has the department, so there's not so much new work to do. What is a strong argument, and for which I am weak, and I think I also mentioned it in the February debate, is that there are quite a number of family members who notice this on the body. An elderly person in the family would like to ask himself, ‘ Is this fit to drive a car? ’ And then you wonder how to attack it. It's not that easy. It is the strongest argument that I think speaks for a health certificate for the elderly, but it is nevertheless not strong enough to go in order to have it in the Norwegian law. Then you have to try to find schemes to catch this up with the health workers. That's what you have today. As you know, you have a duty to do this under Norwegian law. Anyone related to patient groups is obliged to report if there is a suspicion of a failure in the ability to drive a car or poor ability. So I mean, to a large extent, the system will capture this. I am aware that I can be confronted with cases – on the news and through headlines in the newspapers – where an older person may have been involved in an accident, and that there will be a confrontation then. There will also be many young people in traffic accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6601	This applies to four proposals which have a broad scope but which are at least largely within the theme of road safety. And if there's something we know, then it's that this is an area where Norway is in the world class, and we're the best in the world at that. It's not a follow-up, it's a very systematic good job for decades. If we go back a few decades, Sweden was leading us in this work. It was Sweden that came with the zero vision. We came right after. But today we are the best country in the world on this. And it's not a matter of choice, it's a systematic and good job. My concern is that if we start removing some pieces of this puzzle, it won't look the same. And that's my concern with several of the suggestions that are here on the table. I am pleased that the majority of the cases still hold back and point to it, and I feel that there is a deal in this room about the importance of road safety. I feel that fortunately something binds us together, but we also have to see it within this sanity. I thought the representative Tor André Johnsen said it quite well. He said it's the sum that helps to give the good health. And then I'm afraid that once we take something out here, there'll be another sum, a worse result. I'll start with the dot load. It has been a successful system. I want to tell the representative Arne Nävra that just when it comes to the dot load, there is a certain direction towards the youngest drivers. I think that's right, and that's our success. The system has been evaluated twice, and it's good. So for the sake of introducing a category B1 driver card for quadricycles, with age 16 years. Several have been within it. What I want to say is that these differ significantly from the ATVs registered as a tractor or moped, with a maximum speed of 40 km/h, which can currently be run by 16-year-olds with a driving licence for mopeds or tractors. So there's a difference between the type of means of emergence that 16-year-olds can run today and those who will come within this category. So let's make it pass class B and class T automatically give BE. I think it has been said very well today that there is a major rapidity difference between a tractor that can run 40 km/h and a car that can run 80 km/h. We know what driving a hangar with great weight can result in when it involves the degree of seriousness. However, I would like to spend most of my time on the issue of health certificates. I won't repeat the debate we had in February. There was something clear and clear about the big crowd, and I have been working on it. The first thing I said to Stortinget, the representative of Hoksrud, was that I am already in the process of complying with the decision to revoke the health certificate for older drivers on 9 February. The measure is likely to result in more drivers running without meeting the health requirements, and my concern is that it can lead to more deaths and serious damage to our roads. It is therefore important to address the consequences of implementing the Storting decision. This work is now being carried out together with the health authorities. I want to underline the administrative duties under the Administrative Act, and the distribution instructions are to ensure that the matter is as well informed as possible before a decision is taken. This also applies to the follow-up to decisions taken by the Stortinget. I would like to stress that the change requested has led to significant changes in the computer system of the State Road Service. It is necessary to make good progress in order for the changes to work in practice, for the liabilities and for the authorities responsible for managing the scheme, and not to cause undesirable and unfortunate side effects. What is important is that the same number of people also pointed out that they are concerned about the existence of routines and arrangements that allow those who are not able to drive a car to be removed from the driver's card. This is also underlined in the Plural Commentary of the Inst. 195 S for 2020-2021, at the examination of the draft representative. I've been busy watching the cure. I work too fully with follow up the decision, but I am busy doing a thorough and good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6621	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6626	We continue with the health certificate for older drivers, which is a very controversial scheme. I agree with the Minister of Transport, we do not have to repeat the debate that we had before. Just to say it as it is: there are advantages and disadvantages of all arrangements, it's not black or white. But the bulk of the population thinks that there are most drawbacks to today's system, and it's very controversial, and it's a group idea that we want to get away from. This is a known substance. Here at Stortinget we have worked a lot on this. We have got the Storting investigation section to work on the matter, to provide information, which they have again received from, among other things. The Department of Transport, and we know a lot about what information is here. We know how Sweden and how Denmark do this, and it works very well, as we know, and there are no more accidents among the elderly in Sweden and Denmark than in Norway. The question is quite simply: when will the Minister for Transport take the decision of the Stortinge?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6631	The answer is that it is as fast as possible. When we went from this room on 9 February, we started a work to sort out the consequences of the decision that was made here, and of course with the intention of following it as soon as possible. We do so in cooperation with the health authorities and social services. There's also a technical side to this, and it's the State Road Service that has the system. So I also understand, as I quoted not long ago from the talking room, that the bulk of the population is concerned that there are routines and arrangements that allow those who are not willing to drive a car to be removed from the driver's card. This is underlined in a plural comment. There are also challenges in that context. An example is the many older people who do not meet the health requirements but who today let the driver card go out without a formal decision. We need to avoid these being able to drive again without compliance with the health requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6638	Let's just say that if you're not fit to drive a car, you don't need a driver's license. It is regulated both in the driving licence regulation and in the Health Care Professional Act. That's the way it is today. Even if you have a valid driving licence and a valid health certificate – and something happens to you so you are not fit to drive a car, then you should lose your driving licence, regardless of your age, and that must be the case. It is difficult for the Minister of Transport to say that this will lead to more accidents. Very well known, there are no higher accident rates among older drivers in Sweden and Denmark – I would like to be corrected if this is misunderstood. They have good systems to unlock those who are not fit to drive a car, and so do we. If you are unfit to drive a car, you should not do so, whether you are 25, 45 or 85. The question is: Does the Minister for Transport know well how this works in Sweden and Denmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6645	I thought the representative Sverre Myrli said it very well. In Sweden and Denmark, they have a code to take out those who are not fit to run. We have a health certificate in Norway. If it's going to go away, we might also have something else to do just that, that it shouldn't be like that. Because I don't think any of us want anyone who isn't ready to do it, to drive a car. That's why, I think, it's important that we do both the administrative and the road safety work before this decision is fulfilled. But I'm not going to do a rematch on the case. The Storting majority have said that the health certificate is going away. We're working for it to go away, and we've been working as fast as possible. Then I understand that the bulk of the population is impatient. It's me, too, because I want to follow up the decisions that are made, and I don't want there to be any doubt – when I leave this room today, it's to follow up that decision. I hope I made the most possible before 1 August, but I can't promise that everything has been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6652	I think we can make it clear that everyone agrees that people who are not going to drive are not going to drive a car. But there are also many, and I think we should also make that statement in this room, which feels it's unreasonable that it's age that decides whether to take a test or not. I agree to have a good and proper investigation, but I have to say that the Council of State is operating a bit with speed when he says here now that when we made a decision in this room on 9 February, he went back and asked the department to start working on the matter. In fact, I assume that the Council of State and the Department have investigated this – when the matter was discussed by the Committee and the Stortinget and asked for an opinion from the Department, that they had already started working on the matter, and that it is actually perceived that the Council of State is training the matter. The Council of State does not say when he intends to follow up the decision of Storting now either. I believe that this is such a well-known case of issues that the Council of State should be able to clean up and ensure that the decision of the Storting is followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6659	We had not dealt with this matter when she came to treatment in Stortinget. We gave answers based on the knowledge and competence we had, but we had not made a statement when the Stortinget made the decision on 9 February. But we did it immediately afterwards. The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, asked me if we were in the process, and then we were in the process. We had a dialogue with the health authorities to follow this up. Now we have to see, among other things. on the legislation in Sweden and Denmark, what makes them follow up on this even if they do not have a health certificate. Our wish is that we should be able to follow up this decision with both good road safety and good management. That's my intention. I leave here with a desire to make the most possible by August 1st, but I found it difficult to give a guarantee on such a large and comprehensive issue, which is complex.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6668	I experience the Minister of Transport as a very caring person, a person with a great heart, and who is very happy with his fellow human beings. I don't know how many stories he's heard or how many requests the Council of State has received, but we in the Progress Party have received a lot of requests from the elderly who have been very depressed, frustrated and isolated. They feel that life is raging around them. They have mostly driven the car a few kilometers to the nearest store. These are many older people living in the countryside, where there is no collective provision. When they lose the opportunity to go to friends and family and at the store, they simply give up. Unfortunately, we have also been told stories by people who have contacted us, who know other elderly people who have just taken their own lives. What will the Council of State do to those who have lost their driving licence so that they can have a new assessment? Will the Council of State show political power or let the bureaucrats rule again?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6675	Now I feel that the representative Johnsen challenges me on what we discussed on 9 February. I disagreed. I probably meant that I wanted to leave that health certificate standing and made him better. I think we could take with us many experiences of doing the work better. So the bulk of the population said that the health certificate should go away, and I'll follow it up. As others have said from this chair, no one wants someone who is not a skilful to run a car. Then we have to look at this. That's what I'm doing. But I still think that I believe that an improved health certificate would have been a much better solution. But the great majority have said something else, and then I am working on finding a solution in line with the great majority of people who have said and who are securing both the administrative and the road safety aspects of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6680	From older to younger, I want to ask the Council of State a question about 16-year-olds and ATV. I feel that in the Progress Party we do not get a majority in favour of our proposal, but I hope that the Council of State may see that it is safer to get a separate driving licence category with training requirements, requirements for practical driving, requirements for safety equipment, such as helmets, and a speed lower than for two-wheelers. A 16-year-old can drive two-wheeling today, a normal light motorcycle, and it may be worse than a quadricycle. I wonder how the Council of State views the proposal of the Central Party, which should be a good compromise, asking for an assessment and assessment of the possibility. I hope the Council of State will see that, after all, it is not so dangerous to allow 16-year-olds to run ATV with thorough training and thorough requirements for safety equipment, such as helmets – that we can control the accidents we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6692	I always think it's wise to deal with such questions, at least before we go straight to the decision. What I said in my post was that I felt that the kind of ATVs we're talking about here have a very different rate than the ATVs and mopeds, also of quadricycles, which makes it possible for 16-year-olds to run today. They have a much lower speed. And accident statistics are also related to ATV alarming. This is due to the fact that we have had more and more ATVs, but it has nevertheless been a serious development in the accidents, where more and more people have been harmed by ATVs. It bothers me. We see that we work consciously, we can talk down, but for ATV we have had a statistic in the last few years that unfortunately have been negative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6699	I'm recording that the Council of State says he'll do his utmost to get the investigation that you're working on, the assessments that the Department is working on, until 1 August. I believe that. I think the council wants it. Our point in the opposition, which stands for this proposal, is at least that we believe that the Council of State has had a good time. These are things that have been going on ever since 2019. We have been through the subject matter in various proposals, and that was within the Stortinget in 2019, then in February and now. My question is: If the Council of State does not succeed in making the adjustments you might have thought, or if the bureaucrats, as the Progress Party calls them, intend to propose, can he not then implement the Storting Decision on 1 August, and can any adjustments and new regulations follow?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6704	There is something I need to assess whether the situation is such that it will not be fully implemented. But I say here that I want to do as much as possible for August 1. This is a wholeness, of course, and I feel that we are not least comparing ourselves with Sweden and Denmark – especially Sweden – in this matter, but we must see the health of the systems we have. It's also a question that naturally brings in health. We have made changes to these issues as late as 2019. I still think that the best solution would have been to change the health certificate itself, to make it better. So I think we could also solve many of the challenges that lie there, but that's not in the direction that I'm looking at right now. Now I see in the direction that the majority of people have pointed out – get the health certificate removed, but make sure that those who run a car are ready for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6711	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6718	I want to follow up on the central party's slightly clever attitude in the matter of driving licences for the elderly, in view of the fact that 18-year-olds can drive with 3.5 tonnes on tow after their car in e.g. 80 km/h, while 80-year-olds in the countryside, where there are poor or no collective offers, should be excluded from the possibility of taking a car trip to the nearest local merchant to shop some food. The Progress Party supports both the 18-year-olds and the 80-year-olds, but for some reason the Centre Party does not support the 80-year-olds, only the 18-year-olds. I think that's kind of funny. The illogical oscillation of the centre party in terms of driving licences and age does not stop here, but is continued in the case of ATV for 16-year-olds. Today it is fully possible for a 16-year-old with the tractor tag to drive ATV which is blocked at 40 km/h, but there is no training requirement to handle such a vehicle. There is also no requirement for safety equipment, such as the use of helmets. In addition, there is a known problem that it is surprisingly easy to adjust slightly on the ATVs to go significantly faster than 40 km/h – double speed without any problem. The sum of these measures for today’s ATV vehicle and ATV licence rules means that there is actually a significant safety risk — as the Minister has also pointed out several times in the debate today — because there are many accidents with ATV. But there are today's ATVs, where there are no training requirements, no safety equipment requirements, and unfortunately also very easy to adjust for speed. This is what the Progress Party wants to do. That's exactly why we want to introduce our own ATV licence for 16-year-olds, with strict requirements for both theoretical and practical training, requirements for the use of helmets and speed barriers. Actually, that's something we're convinced will lead to getting control of the accidents we have today. It is strange that the majority in this Chamber obviously do not understand it, and it is strange that the majority in this Chamber use today's legislation as an argument for voting down the proposals of the Progress Party, which would actually make a positive contribution to road safety for ATVs and 16-year-olds. A 16-year-old can currently drive a motorcycle on two wheels – two wheels versus four wheels – and you can drive for more than 110 km/h. In Norway it is not legal, but the light motor cycles tend to go at 120 and 130 km/h, and this can be done in Sweden and Denmark. It is significantly safer with four wheels than with two wheels and at a lower speed. Unfortunately, it seems that the majority will not support the proposals of the Progress Party. We think that's a pity for road safety, which we know this hall is very concerned about. Therefore, instead, we call on the majority to support the proposal of the Centre Party, and we hope that it can be adopted. As the minister himself said, he wants to investigate first, and then it should be harmless to support the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6733	To Arne Nävra, who mentions this with young drivers, there was a little bit of this with the dot load, which is double, fortunately, and you have a trial period. It was found that if we were to deal with the large number of traffic accidents for young people, we would either have to increase the age limit to 20 years – we talked about it – or get a probationary period of two years, so that we could prove to the rest of society that we were fit to drive a car. I think it's been a very important arrangement for fewer traffic accidents. So the representative Johnsen says that there is a collection of many measures. He is quite right in that, it is quite clear that there is a collection of several measures. And especially this exercise run over a longer period: you can start to exercise run from 16 years, because then you have a lot more routine when you're 18 and you're going to drive alone. I think that is also an important reason why we have reduced the frequency of accidents and the seriousness of the younger ones. So to the elderly. Not all doctors say, ‘You are not fit to hold a driving licence when you are 80 years old.’ However, we know that the picture of the disease and perhaps reaction and other things can be a reason why you have to consider taking away some driver’s license – because you become a danger both to yourself and to others. Clearly, the stories are many. When my mother came up at that age, I had to take the car away from her, and that was not easy. We weren't good friends when it went on. Arne Nävra was also concerned with a heavy load on the family. That's exactly what I think is going to happen, that relatives are even more obliged to make sure that mom or dad or whoever it is now is fit to drive a car, instead of being inside the doctor sometimes and it's said, "Yes, you're fit, you're allowed to continue." Most people get that message when they leave the doctor's office, and are not taken from the driver's license hard and brutally.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6742	Jon Gunnes explained something that I put down with a certain impression that when you're 80, you lose the certificate. It's not like that. If you are 80 years old and lose the certificate, it is because the doctor understands something you do not understand. I'm so lucky to be vaccinated, and tomorrow I'll take my other vaccine. When I met up with the first vaccine, I think almost everyone who was there was born in 1950, that is, as old as me. I saw the one miserable person after the other bump across the road and into the vaccine. Then I thought, oh, they can't be as old as me, it had to be the ones that came for other vaccines, that came there. You yourself are the last person to realize that you can't drive. I don't think I'm going to be any less happy to lose the certificate if it's my wife who says it, than if it's the doctor who says it. I think my wife very much wanted the doctor to say that. We have to get away from the discussion where we are talking about age discrimination. No, it's not age discrimination. It is not because you are 80 years old that you lose the certificate; it is because the doctor sees that you can no longer drive. That's a reason. I'm not going to go to the doctor if I'm not going to have a Class B certificate. There's someone who has to say it to you, it's not you who's going to say that now I stop driving, now I'm too old. Well, maybe I will? Maybe I've run away from someone? Maybe I can see it the day I drive towards the direction of travel on the Winter Bridge or run on a young person in a pedestrian street? It's a bigger downfall, I think, than if your doctor says that now the driver's license should go away. So I'm glad the Council of State says that it's possible to find other solutions to that. It is possible that it is not the doctor, but in some way we have to check those who are going out – without them causing themselves and others an accident. That's what the state council has to work on when he's going to remove the automatic health certificate. The family is there, and the health service is there. When you get so far that you need home help, it might be home help that should say so. Someone's going to have to tell me that now it's over, I'm pretty convinced of that. Age is some weird thing. I thought my teachers were ancient, and then I discovered that my daughter had the same teacher as me – twenty years later. So it's not age discrimination, it's not 18 and 80. You do not lose the certificate when you are 80 years old. You lose the certificate because a doctor has told you not to run anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6753	I'll have the same commitment, but not as serious as the previous speeches. It is quite right that the representative says: it is not that everyone loses the «note» because they become 80 years old. But I think many people experience it as discriminatory that age is what determines that you have to enter and get that health certificate. One of the challenges here was that there was some arrogance among some health care professionals. It was very easy just to put on this cognitive test, which we know is actually quite challenging. I know of quite young people who have challenges to pass the same test, as too many are talking about quite a lot: risking losing the «lap». I agree with what the Council of State says, that you might want to see if you could do other things and find other solutions to this. But also there I feel that there was a little arrogance and little willingness to actually take over and see if there are other possibilities. Finally, there is a counter-reaction, where the Storting now clearly states that this is not the criterion to be taken into account. It was quite funny to listen to Gunnes' representative, I noticed what he actually said from the pulpit. He thought it was good to have a double dot load for young people between 18 and 20 years of age or those who have had the «lap» for less than two years. I don't agree with that, because I actually mean that a lot of those who take the 'note' today have a completely different training from what I had, and some of those who are older than me, who have been on the pulpit here, had a completely different training than what I had. We probably have the very, very best training in the world because we make quite strict demands and are concerned with ensuring the zero vision. We're going to work for zero hard damage and kill in traffic. I experience in this matter, and throughout my time in the Committee on Transport, that this is a topic that has gone on again. That's also why I challenged the Council of State a little extra when he said that after the decision on 9 February, they went back to the department and started the work. Yes, this work has been started many times in the department, but there are also strong forces there that don't want to or don't want to see other ways to do this. I think it's sad, but now it's at least that it's going to be a big crowd, if it's not going to be wrong with the voting, as it was a little earlier today. At least we want to make sure that there is a majority now saying clearly that this is a ‘go’ to the Council of States. I feel that the Council of State intends to follow it up, and then I expect and hope that he will make every effort to comply with the decision of the Enlargement, which says that from 1 August this will change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6766	I have to say, I'm a little surprised by the speeches from the government parties that have now been up and that I see quite strongly defending today's system without seeing any counter-representation with it at all. I said it in the line change a while ago, and I said it from the pulpit here when we discussed the matter the last time, that this matter is not simple. It's not black and white. There are advantages and disadvantages with both today's system and a new system that will have to be put in place. There's no doubt that the more we test, the more we find out. Of course, today’s tests help to hatch drivers who are not required to hold a driving licence. But we could reverse the reasoning: Why don’t we all test? Then, of course, would we have opened up even more? It's like looking for the health care system: the more a person is checked and checked, the more he finds out. So there's a limit to how much to test and control. So the left, like a liberal party, doesn't at all have any counterconceptions about testing a single group in society – as a group. Of course – if we had checked all drivers under the age of 25, we would have found drivers who probably should not have had a driving licence. But why don't we do that? No, because we don't think 'group' among younger people. You're an individual, and that's what we have to think about when it comes to older people. We know from accident statistics that some immigrants from specific countries are overrepresented in traffic accidents, but we could not imagine testing immigrants as a group or immigrants from a particular country as a group because they are overrepresented in accident statistics. No, we think you're an individual, and that's how we have to think about older people. There are good solutions to this. It is a controversial system that we have today. I am surprised that the government parties do not receive the feedback we receive from the others. Yes, I've met doctors who are for today's system, I won't hide that. But I have also met many doctors who contact me and say that today's system is also problematic. There are also professional objections to the tests used, if they say anything at all about the ability to drive a car. One solution to this is maybe to have everyone in for the test -- check all of them -- every ten or fifteen years. As far as I know, there are some countries in Europe that do it this way. These are solutions if we want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6779	The representative Tor André Johnsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6784	Traffic safety is important. We're all concerned about that. But we are also all concerned about – at least I hope – justice, equal treatment and quality of life, including for the elderly. It should also be a matter of everyone's attention. Several older people have had to take those tests due to errors, simply because of errors. Some doctors have misunderstood and required everyone to take the test, regardless of the suspicion of cognitive failure or not. Obviously, if you look at older people who haven't gone to school since before the war, who get stressed because the doctor's there with the stopwatch, who get stressed because it's really a cognitive theoretical test and not a practical driving test, it's not so strange that they might be ironing out those tests. I think several of us would. So my question is, I hope the minister will say a little bit about this: what will the Minister do to make those who have been deprived of the licence on the wrong basis in the past will have a new opportunity? It should be easy to get there, for example. in the case of a practical driving test.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6790	Since I was so clearly challenged by the representative Johnsen instead, I will take the floor to explain the situation. It is true that the Central Party was the party that took the initiative and promoted the first proposal to raise the age limit for mandatory testing. It was definitely in its place. In the matter that is now referred to, the majority decision that was taken, the Central Party had two own proposals. One proposal was to ask the government to review the functioning of the current compulsory health testing system for the renewal of driving licences and to determine whether it was appropriate to raise the age limit for compulsory health testing to 85 years. We wanted an increase in the limit of mandatory health testing. We had a suggestion that the Central Party asked the government to make it clear in the Driver's Licence Guide that the cognitive tests should only be used in case of a suspected cognitive failure. In other words, there is nothing all routinely going through. Now I expect the government to implement the majority decision. Unfortunately, we have some request decisions that the government has been far too poor to follow up – but we do so in the review of the follow-up to the request decisions. I expect this to be followed up, but I understand that it may take some time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6801	The representative Igstad took care of the vaccine queue. It's too complicated for me to come into it today. But I want to respond to some of the concrete challenges I have been faced with. The representative Johnsen points out that there is someone wrong with this, and I believe he is right, but it is clear that we do not know the depth of the individual matters here. That's why it's hard for me to say something about it. But that's also why we need a good system, and so it's not in a manual to get a new system in place. What we've done is we've increased the age limit. It looks like you're taking it a little bit easy. We've deliberately increased the age limit of the test we've had for now. It's been a big deal, it's a big deal of a consolation that's done it. I would have liked to see that we had seen the consequences of what we had done before we went on. But I think Sverre Myrli is right when he says that we know that whatever solution we land on here, there is no proper solution. But it also says something about the need, before we have a new system in place, to review it. One might say that this has been a debate that has gone. But to take this test out completely from 80 years, it's never been done by the department. It was a decision that was completely new on February 9, but we're working as well as we can. My wish is to follow naturally the desire of the Stortinges plural at this point. But it has to be done within both the road safety and administrative framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6812	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 27.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-25.ana.ud291e6829	No one has asked for the floor. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
