ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e141	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Three permit applications are available: from the representative of Une Bastholm on sick leave from 23 March until further notice by the Socialist Left Group on sick leave for the representative Petter Eide from 23 March onwards and until further notice, from the Group of the Party of European Socialists on sick leave for the representative of Morten Stordalen from 23 March until further notice Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Oslo, Olivia Corso Salles, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the representative Petter Eide's leave due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: That application shall be dealt with without delay and shall be accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Oslo, Per Espen Stoknes and Solveig Skaugvoll Foss For Vestfold, Ellen Eriksen
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e196	Per Espen Stoknes, Solveig Skaugvoll Foss and Ellen Eriksen are present and will take the seat. The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e203	On behalf of Petter Eide, Eirik Faret Sakariassen, Solveig Skaugvoll Foss and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to regulate the police's use of power in behalf of children under the care of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e208	The representative, Helge André Njåstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e213	On behalf of Åshild Bruun-Gundersen, Bård Hoksrud, Roy Steffensen, Himanshu Gulati, Tor André Johnsen, Bengt Rune Strifeldt, Sivert Bjørnstad, Erlend Wiborg, Ellen Eriksen and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions to remove the tax by 2024.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e218	The representative, Martin Henriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e223	On behalf of Lene Vågslid, Maria Aasen-Svensrud, Åsmund Aukrust, Anette Trettebergstuen and myself, I would like to make representations on the support for the Human Rights Service.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e228	The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e234	On behalf of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Audun Lysbakken and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to step up Norwegian contributions to international climate finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e239	The representative Per Espen Stoknes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e244	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to improve children's outdoors and the growing-up environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e249	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e254	Red suggests a dental reform to treat teeth as part of the body. We're proposing to mark the ten oil cans. Finally, we propose an independent sample of Norwegian participation in international operations and the consequences of these operations, from 1991 until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e263	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e268	On behalf of Tor André Johnsen, Åshild Bruun-Gundersen, Sylvi Listhaug, Hans Andreas Limi, Sivert Bjørnstad and myself, I propose a fair compensation scheme for the Norwegian tourist industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e273	The representative, Mr André Johnsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e278	On behalf of Sylvi Listhaug, Sivert Bjørnstad, Siv Jensen, Kari Kjønaas Kjos and myself, I want to promote a proposal for a representative on Norwegian production of important medicines.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e283	The representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e288	It's an active staging today, President! On behalf of Liv Signe Navarsete, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Ole André Myhrvold and myself, I would like to propose a representative to withdraw Norway from the EU Energy Agency Acer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e296	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1 to 5 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e362	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e376	Let me thank the Stortinget for providing me with a very important topic, namely our ability to prevent, detect and counteract security-threatening activities in a specific case, which referred to the sale of the Norwegian-registered company Bergen Engines AS. On 15 December 2020, the Norwegian authorities notified Rolls-Royce plc that the group would initiate a process of selling the Norwegian registered company Bergen Engines AS. It was stated in the notice that the Transmashholding Group was one of the potential buyers. It was also stated that the actual purchase would be carried out by TMH International AG, a Swiss registered company of 100 pst. owned by the Russian registered TMH Group. We are aware that the TMH Group has relations with the Russian authorities. In the meantime, I use TMH as a generic term for both parent and subsidiary companies. Bergen Engines is a manufacturer and supplier of e.g. engines and generators for both civil and military use in Norway and several allied countries, including the United States of America. The central question is whether the sale of these activities to a company controlled by a country with which we do not have safety cooperation will pose a risk to national security. Of course, it has also had a lot of public attention, and I understand that. At the same time, I can assure Stortinget that this is a problem that the government has taken – and takes – seriously. That's why the government over time has been working to map all the relationships around the possible sale of Bergen Engines, knowing that the case raises fundamental questions, and that decisions that are made can have long-term consequences. In this process, the work of the EOS services has been very central. The government considers that we now have sufficient information to conclude that this is necessary, to ensure that national security interests are not threatened, that we prevent Bergen Engines from being sold to a company that is controlled by a country with which we do not have a safety cooperation. Of course, in matters relating to our national security, there is some information that cannot be shared with the public. It is also true in this case. The basis for our final position on the matter is more complex than what has been achieved in the public debate. Since the basis for the assessments is essentially classified information, I ask for understanding that I cannot go into detail about these conditions. However, I would like to highlight the most important issues that have been at the heart of our assessments. Our assessment is that the technology Bergen Engines owns, and the engines they produce, would have had great strategic significance for Russia, and it would have strengthened Russia's military capabilities in a way that would clearly be contrary to Norwegian and Allied security policy interests. Although these are products and technologies not covered by the export control lists, Russia has had significant challenges in accessing them since the introduction of the Western sanctions against the country in 2014. The proposed purchase could result in attempts to circumvent the export control legislation or our restrictive measures against Russia, in order to gain access to knowledge and technology of great military strategic importance for Russia in a disguised way. Exports of technology and engines to Russia would be contrary to Norwegian and Allied security policy interests. In addition, it can also be mentioned that with a sale of Bergen Engines it would also be accompanied by a large property with significant building mass. The strategic location, towards the northern entrance of Bergen and defence installations of safety significance for Norway and allied nations, is also a matter of importance for the matter. Therefore, overall, the Government considers that national security interests may be threatened if the ownership of Bergen Engines is transferred from Rolls-Royce to TMH. A Royal Resolution will therefore be promoted with a decision to stop the sale in accordance with the Safety Act § 2-5 of the following Friday, March 26, 2021. In this case, we have had a positive dialogue with Britishide Rolls-Royce in an otherwise demanding case. Such issues are challenging for both national authorities and business actors involved. In the dialogue with the Norwegian authorities, Rolls-Royce has been both professional and cooperative. We informed Rolls-Royce about the government's decision on 18 March. Since then we have had constructive discussions, and the company agrees that the decision to stop the transaction is taken. Our security concerns have been linked to TMH and the country where the company is controlled. Companies controlled by a country with which we do not have security policy cooperation are not affected. So there's still a large capital market that will qualify as owner. Our perception is that Rolls-Royce will continue to work on finding constructive solutions for Bergen Engines and its further operations. I will come back to our work with, and the process around, Bergen Engines. But I'd like to lift my eyes a little bit. The Bergen Engines case is part of a broader context on safety-threatening activity using economic instruments. I would like to give the Storting a relatively broad explanation of the subject matter and the case complex because the issue has many sides. It also does not always appear in the public conversation. Let me begin by saying that I am pleased that the Stortinget through the consideration of the Justice Committee's Innst. 275 S for 2020-2021 indicates that the Government of the Communication on Social Security, Report. St. 5 for 2020-2021 Social security in an uncertain world, paved the way for the further development of our ability to prevent, detect and counteract security-threatening activities. I am also pleased that the Storting agrees with the government that a prerequisite for good preventive safety work is knowledge of risks and how this can be reduced by a holistic approach and the combination of different human, technological and organisational security measures. On the basis of the case at hand, I am also pleased that the Stortinget has registered that the government in both the social security message and the long-term proposal for the defence sector has highlighted unwanted investments in Norwegian businesses as a significant threat, where investments and purchases can be used as an instrument for purposes other than purely commercial purposes. Foreign investment and ownership form a significant part of the Norwegian economy and have long traditions in Norway. It contributes to the desired transfer of knowledge, the development of new technologies, innovation, increased productivity, job creation and increased tax revenues. We ourselves are a significant investor in other countries through the Staten pension fund abroad – the oil fund. The Government is concerned that Norway, as an open and export-oriented economy, must have enterprises that have the necessary input of capital, technology and knowledge, and that commercial considerations must weigh heavily in any transaction. However, this specific case has proved to have far more sides, where other considerations need to be more focused. Therefore, we also have a positive starting point when companies and capital from other countries want to invest in Norwegian competence and in Norwegian jobs. The strength of the Norwegian maritime industrial environment also makes it attractive for many to develop and own businesses in Norway. At the same time, it is not uncommon for public vocabulary to discuss the possible consequences of ownership shifts for industrial enterprises in Norway, especially for enterprises that have faced economic challenges. The debate following the publication by Hydro of the sale of the rolling business is an example of this. Uncertainty about ownership disturbs employees and customers, even where security policy interests are not present. Therefore, there is no doubt that the government wants maritime industry companies and important jobs such as Bergen Engines to develop their business in a strong Norwegian industrial environment. The response to Minister of State Lunde of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries to questions from the press about Bergen Engines must be seen in the light of this. It appeared that: The authorities do not monitor transactions undertaken by commercial operators. The department was familiar with the sale. We consider this to be an agreement to sell between two commercial operators, which the ministry should not or should not interfere with. The Minister of Industry has publicly stressed that this was a general industrial policy response and not related to the security policy assessments. We are also concerned that other countries do not use national security considerations as arguments in cases where there appears to be more trade conflicts than real security concerns. It is therefore important that we ourselves be cautious about using the Security Act to intervene in otherwise lawful transactions, without sufficient grounds for doing so. At the same time, threats and risk assessments from our EOS services highlight the use of economic instruments for purposes other than business by several countries. Investments and purchases can be used as an instrument to gain insight into sensitive information relating, for example, to: contingency mechanisms, critical infrastructure and policy-making processes. It can also provide access to technologies and resources of strategic importance. Enterprises developing high technology for use in industries of strategic importance are particularly vulnerable. Unwanted investment in Norwegian enterprises may result in countries with which Norway does not cooperate in safety matters being able to enter a position where they have an influence that is contrary to our national security interests. The use of promises of investments or the threat of their withdrawal may also be used as a means of pressurisation against other countries. In some cases, concrete investments or purchases may appear problematic in themselves. The Bergen Engines case illustrates that. However, as the police security service provides in its open threat assessment, there may also be challenges related to some investments, purchases or financing such as: research and development projects which, in isolation, may appear to be unproblematic. Overall, and in view of the fact that some countries work very long-term with instruments that appear to be purely commercial interests, these investments may nevertheless also be incompatible with national security interests. Addressing these challenges therefore involves inter alia: to see a country's financial involvement in Norway over time. This is not a unique Norwegian challenge. The threat and risk picture that some foreign investment can represent is common to many European and Western countries. The knowledge that some countries use investments and purchases as strategic instruments makes it possible for more related countries, such as Finland, the United States, Canada, Germany and France, to consider measures to reduce the risk of foreign investment. As mentioned above, the government has informed the Storting not only in the Communication on Social Security but also in the long-term proposal for the defence sector about the issue of the use of economic instruments for security-threatening activities and the government's work in this area. We have focused on actions in this area. Firstly, we have prioritised and prioritised the work on appropriate legislation. The Security Act is our most powerful tool in this context. Norway has had a cross-sectoral safety law for more than 20 years. A new, revised version of the law was proposed by the government and adopted by the Stortinget in 2018. Norway therefore has a modern and flexible legislative framework to prevent, detect and counteract security threats. This also applies to undesirable investments in Norwegian establishments or their purchases. Chapter 10 of the Security Act lays down rules on the control of investments and purchases by companies governed by the Security Act. The purpose of this screening mechanism is to capture potentially security-threatening transactions and to allow for the adoption of the necessary decisions to prevent such activity, including the cessation of transactions. Furthermore, Section 2-5 of the Security Act provides a basis of law and a mechanism for the intervention of the King in the Council of State if there is a non-negligible risk of planned or ongoing activity, e.g.: an investment may threaten national security interests. The provision is a safety valve, and it is explicitly stated by the preprocessors that it will supplement the provisions on ownership control in Chapter 10 of the Act, where the establishment in question it is planned to purchase is not subject to the law by individual decisions under Sections 1-3 of the Act. Paragraphs 2 to 5 shall apply only where the activity in question may involve a non-negligible risk of threat to national security interests. There is a requirement that a decision be necessary to reduce the risk involved and that the decision is an appropriate measure to achieve this. In addition, a proportionality assessment will have to be carried out in order to balance the consideration of national security interests with the negative impact that the decision will have on the actors concerned. As a basis for assessing whether decisions should be taken, evaluations should be obtained from relevant bodies. The general obligation of administration also applies to the extent that time permits. The majority has also adopted the government's proposal for a new law on the register of real rightholders. The register increases the availability and transparency of ownership and control of legal persons, entities and other associations, and foreign legal events, in Norway. The information may also be relevant for assessments for national safety reasons. The Export Control Code is managed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and shall include, inter alia: contribute to preventing unwanted exports of goods and technologies which may affect the development, production or use of military products by other countries or which may serve directly to develop the military capabilities of a country. In addition to the licence obligation for exports of goods and technology covered by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' checklists, there is also a licensing obligation for certain military end-use services. The export control code has no mechanisms or means to stop the sale of enterprises or to prevent foreign purchases of private enterprises. Enterprises operating in and from Norway are in any case subject to the export control legislation, irrespective of who owns them. The government has also started a work for, among others. to identify and see whether there is a need to adjust overall measures already in place or whether there is a need for more measures in the interests of national security interests. Among other things, we consider adjustments to the existing legislation, including whether we should lower the alert threshold, require the registration of property with a sensitive location and questions about strengthening the NSM's basis for information collection. Secondly, there is a systematic effort to provide a better overview of foreign investment in Norway. Information on foreign ownership is recorded by a number of institutions, both Norwegian and international. Norway has good systems to record information, but we want a better overview of some countries’ economic footprints in each sector. Several measures are in place to improve such an overview. In dialogue with the Ministry of Justice and Defence, the Central Statistical Office has assessed how they can produce more relevant statistics. Norwegian Institute of Foreign Policy, NUPI, has an ongoing research project, Consequences of Investments for National Security, COINS, funded by the Research Council. In connection with this project, the NUPI has developed recommendations on how to better understand foreign investment in general and property in particular. This has resulted in the fact that the Minister of Defence and I have commissioned the National Security Authority, NSM, to publish an overview of foreign ownership in different sectors in their annual risk report. In the 2021 letters of assignment, the NSM and the Staten Kartsverk have also been given a joint mission to determine how to ensure the best possible overview of foreign ownership of property. Overall, we expect these measures to provide us with a better overview of foreign ownership in Norway. Thirdly, we give priority to international cooperation. We share the threat and risk picture with our allies and a number of other countries. Unwanted consequences of foreign investment are on the international agenda, and Norway is actively participating in multi- and bilateral discussions on this topic. It is worth noting that, unlike many other countries, we have a cross-sectoral security law that allows intervention in security-threatening activities, both prior to the investment or purchase, but also afterwards, to prevent undesirable consequences for national security. Relevant work is ongoing in the EU in this area, such as: includes a regulation on foreign direct investment. It entered into force in 2019 and is being implemented in the Member States. This Regulation is based on the common commercial policy of the European Union and although, in its content, it has a certain internal market mechanism, it is clearly outside the scope of the EEA Agreement. This means that it will not be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. However, this Regulation provides for overall screening cooperation with third countries, inter alia: through consultations and exchanges of experience and best practices related to some countries and sectors. It is therefore important for us to seek cooperation with the EU in this area. The Ministry of Justice and Defence is therefore in constant contact with the EU delegation in Brussels on this subject and a meeting is planned with the Commission in the near future. Fourthly, we give priority to research and competence. The national safety authority has a central role in assessing and contributing to the reduction of risks associated with foreign investment. The Government will consider how to reduce and counteract foreign investment security challenges, including ensuring that NSM will in future develop expertise in this area and maintain close cooperation with our own EOS services and services in other countries in this area. At the request of the authorities, the NUPI has conducted a comparative study showing how a sample of countries we compare with, interpret and assess risks associated with foreign investment and how they have designed legal and political instruments to reduce risks. At the request of the Ministry of Justice and Defence, the Swedish Defence Research Institute has also prepared a very relevant report which looks into how foreign investment and other economic instruments threaten national security. So a little bit more about the Bergen Engines thing. Both the Minister of Defence and I have spoken to the media about how the Norwegian authorities were made aware of the matter. On 15 December 2020, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs received an e-mail from the Export Control Officer of Rolls-Royce. The e-mail contained an attachment that referred to a planned sale of Bergen Engines AS to TMH. This note has been made available to the U.D. and its contents are mentioned in the media. The case was initially communicated in the export control track, but concerns the transfer of ownership to a foreign actor, which falls outside the export control code. The export control legislation applies only to the specific export of goods or technology from Norway and has no mechanisms to prevent the purchase of private enterprises. Regardless of who owns Bergen Engines, such exports from the company would have to be assessed under the export control legislation, including the restrictive measures against the country TMH. The following day, the U.D. forwarded the note to the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries for information and follow-up along their own tracks. The information was also made known to the Police Security Service and the Intelligence Service. The information was not sent directly to the Ministry of Defence at that time because there was no information at that time that made the information relevant to the Ministry of Defence. On 7 January this year, the U.D. sent a response to the export control officer in Rolls-Royce, informing them that the matter had been forwarded to the relevant departments and departments. In mid-January this year the matter was discussed at ministerial level in the departments most concerned, and that was also the political level being briefed. A more detailed assessment of the case was then started on the basis of the different national security interests. The work on assessing the possible impact of the case on the security of specific acquisitions and on national security interests has thus been ongoing since mid-January of this year, with the broad involvement of relevant authorities. The EOS services have assessed the relevant aspects of the case on the basis of their respective legal basis throughout this period, and we have received continuous, but preliminary assessments as the case continues to receive new information that was collected and analysed. There has been no delay in this work at any time. For the sake of order, I would also like to point out that we received the initial assessments of the services before the matter was discussed in the media. The content of these assessments is, of course, classified information, but I want to assure the Storting that the many and complex aspects of the case have been subject to thorough assessments during this period. The risks associated with supplies in the defence sector and on the civil side, the risk of circumvention of export control legislation, the risks associated with sensitive properties, the risk of transmission of sensitive information and technology have been among the elements of the assessments. The Ministry of Justice and Defence cooperated closely with the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. We have also had dialogue with other departments regarding the civil deliveries of Bergen Engines. The Ministry of Defence's initial assessments of the complex were linked to concrete deliveries to the defence sector. In this first phase, prior to the publication by Rolls-Royce of the proposed sale, it was assessed that there was no basis for intervention in the sale using the Security Act. As mentioned above, Section 2-5 of the Safety Act requires a decision to be taken. The safety of the defence vessel was assessed to be ensured by other adequate risk mitigation measures. Consequently, it was notified to Rolls-Royce that Norway would not take any action prior to the publication of the proposed sale. We see that the company may have seen the matter clarified, but the reality is that it was further worked on a broader assessment of the matter in the departments concerned. The national safety authority has stated that their assessment in the first phase, prior to publication, was also that it was related to the issues raised then and at that time, not sufficient grounds existed for recommending that it be intervened in the process by the application of the safety law. However, this did not stop the assessment of the safety consequences of the possible sale. On the contrary, everyone continued to work on the various aspects of the case with a view to obtaining a sound decision-making basis for a final decision in the case – both in depth on the defence side, civil and not least in view of what this would mean for technology transfer. Therefore, as I have now explained, it has been continuously assessing the possible consequences and risks to national security interests since mid-January. That is also the reason why the handling of this case has taken time. We need a sufficient basis to conclude. Using such an intrusive tool as to stop a initially legitimate sales process between international, private, commercial actors is a significant and serious act. That is why we have been constantly working to obtain the necessary information and to make further assessments. This is also the system of the Safety Act in cases where the use of § 2-5 is assessed. On 8 March, there was sufficient information and assessments that we, through the National Security Authority, chose to notify Rolls-Royce that the Norwegian authorities were assessing whether the transaction should be stopped under the Security Act. Such a warning has obvious consequences for the company and required an adequate basis for assessment by the authorities. The company confirmed by letter of 12 March that both the transaction process and all knowledge transfer to TMH in this respect had been suspended pending a final decision by the Norwegian authorities. TMH also confirms this. The studies carried out by the NSM at Bergen Engines indicate that no safety-related information had been transmitted at that time in the process. During the period since the NSM notified the company that the Norwegian authorities were considering stopping the sale under the Safety Act, the overall decision-making basis in the case has been further strengthened. The government considers that we now have sufficient information — both about purchasers and about the risks involved — to conclude that stopping the sales process is absolutely necessary to ensure that national security interests are not threatened. Let there be no doubt that both the general problem of some countries using economic instruments for security-threatening activities and the safety consequences of this specific case of the sale of Bergen Engines are a matter of great concern to the government, and are taking it most seriously. As we have expressed to the Storting in that proposition and notification, as a society, we must recognise that the use of economic instruments against Norway constitutes a complex and unbridled threat that we cannot ignore. At the same time, we want transparent and predictable framework conditions for cross-border investment and trade. This is not the last time we're in this demanding dilemma where we have to weigh important considerations against each other and land correctly. We therefore need to learn from the individual case. We shall also do so in this case, but let there be no doubt that the government has shown both the will and the ability to take the necessary steps to safeguard national security interests. At the same time, we need to do this in an orderly way where we have sufficient information to justify the actions we are taking and the decisions we take. It's a responsibility we have towards both public and private businesses nationally and internationally. With that I thank you for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e512	Under Paragraph 45 of the Storting Rules of Procedure, the President will open a short comment round limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group. The President will also propose to derogate from the second paragraph of Section 45 by giving the floor to the Minister of Defence, in addition to the Minister of Justice and Defence, to a closing post limited to 5 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e519	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank you for the presentation. But this case isn't just about Bergen Engines. This case is about something much larger than that. Bergen Engines is just an example. The issue is how Norwegian security is maintained in response to strategic investments and purchases, how security awareness is in the hands of all departments in general and perhaps the Ministry of Industry in particular, and not least how governments deal with threat assessments when they arrive. As this case has occurred, it has seemed as if the answer has been: not at all, until overtime. The NSM, PST and E services have all explicitly warned against strategic purchases and investments for a long time. That's why this case is not over because you've been snowing the same as an emergency solution for Bergen Engines. Right now, at this sale, there was no opportunity to provide a guarantee that technology or information that is vulnerable to us is going astray. We cannot get that guarantee from the company, it must come from the government, because they are responsible for ensuring Norwegian security. That's why it was right to stop now. I noticed that the minister quoted the head of defense, and I think that made sense. The matter is only above when one shows with conviction that one has a consciousness of what one does to ensure against strategic buying-in and investment. What do we do next time? We can't run to the King of State Council overtime every time. This case still has many unanswered questions, e.g.It is not clear to me why the Safety Act was not applied to Bergen Engines from the beginning. That assessment and justification has not been provided by the government. After this matter was problematised both through questions here in Stortinget and in the press, the government began to answer that they would assess the safety law. They did not say that to Stortinget until 7 March, and now they say that the assessment has been made all along. But if they have made that assessment all along, they had to say it all the time. The government has an obligation to inform Stortinget to inform matters when a question arises. It's just hard to believe. If the Security Act was evaluated all the time, it is very strange that the Minister of Defence wrote nothing about it in his first reply to me. Then he just wrote that the Security Act was not used – dot. Not: the Safety Act has not been used now, but one might consider doing so later. He did not mention that until two weeks later. We need a concrete answer to when those assessments started. We know the government knew something about this in December. At the beginning of 7 March, they referred to the assessment of the Safety Act. The uncertainty of the last few months around Bergen Engines creates uncertainty for the company, creating uncertainty for employees, creating uncertainty for us as a society for whether Norwegian security is maintained on an ongoing basis. That uncertainty is the responsibility of the Minister of Defence, and he has said that he sees no reason for self-criticism in handling this matter. No, no, no, no, no, But how are we going to avoid this happening again? It is obvious that there is a need to review the use of the Safety Act to see if there is a distance between its use and where it should be used. And in what way does the government take responsibility for all businesses themselves protecting protective information. I'm still not sure what the government defines as critical infrastructure. A reassessment is necessary. The Minister of Justice is responsible for the Security Act. The Minister of Defence is responsible for the security of the state. The Minister of Economic Affairs is responsible for industry. Now the three different departments come with different statements. The fact that the Minister of Industry said that it was a general response to business policy to say that this is not something that the Ministry should interfere with, bears witness to a lack of a culture of security. This is not just important to get in place for the case of Bergen Engines. It is important to clarify how to ensure a long-term, safe and predictable management of Norwegian security. This case concerns the safety law. The speech is given by the Minister of Justice, but the care of Norwegian security, the protection of the state and, above all, the total defence in the ministry is the responsibility of the Minister of Defence. I therefore propose that this statement be the basis for consultation within the Foreign Affairs Committee, where both Councils are present. And then I just have to add finally that I notice that there wasn't so much talk about jobs at Hordvikneset in this presentation. There is also something the government has to take responsibility for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e540	I want to start by saying that the statement we heard was exemplary. It was clear, and it was also informative in that it informed the Stortinget of the decision that will be taken in the Council of State next Friday, formally. I believe that the case has now been handled by the Minister of Justice, it has entered into the right path, it also underlines the seriousness of the case when the Minister of Justice uses words such as that the sale of Bergen Engines was incompatible with national security interests, and – in another context – that this was a security-threatening transaction, and that what we are working for under the Security Act is to prevent, detect and prevent harmful transactions. Then you can still question why there were so many different signals coming from the department that was supposed to be the closest to evaluating the deliveries that this company had given to its own departments. There is also a need to draw on a different background of experience from that which follows only the administrative law — that of allowing two parties to enter into a transaction — because in that area they were themselves parties to the contract, and they themselves had full insight into the know-how and knowledge of the Norwegian defence that was accumulated in that company. That's why it was with some surprise – also because the Storting has quite fresh memories of the Security Act, which has taken us into consideration in recent years, and we have also received a new, updated Security Act – that the defense, which was supposed to have first-hand knowledge that uses this company, was at the same time the first department of several to say that this was perfectly all right, and is just taking in the views that we all deserve to have lower trade barriers, and we are part of a global money system. You have to weigh any interests, but it was concluded that the Safety Act had no meaning. So the department and the professionals who were supposed to be the first to check if this was all right were obviously at this point in a situation where you didn't see this seriously. So you can ask questions about learning in this, what it will be. I hope it is agreed that on such issues there is no question of weighing national security interests against the level of intervention against private parties. It is about, quite simply, the consideration of Norway and our position in the field of security policy. Then there is no longer any question of balancing opposing equivalent interests. Then you have torn in the first hedge, then you are no longer qualified for further participation. We are dealing with a country with which we do not have cooperation in security policy – it is a pleasant term, we are dealing with a unified political system – and Russia, which, of course, has a regime that unfortunately does not respect its own citizens, will hardly respect business secrets in so-called private companies that are based in these countries, also because they have local legislation that makes this distinction difficult. But I will end by saying that both the Minister of Justice's statement on the matter and not least the conclusions that are now being drawn, and the future guidelines for dealing with such purchases were very reassuring. As we see it, there is no need on our part to have any further review of this matter with transmission to the committee, etc. We believe that this statement was on its own and was very solid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e555	Let me also thank the Minister of Justice for the presentation. I have to say that post-clearance is also good, but this is therefore a full right – a full right, but at the same time a defence of today’s system. Today's system hasn't worked, the government hasn't worked. The cooperation has been miserable, and you just didn't understand the seriousness. We're talking about Section 2-5 of the Security Act. It's irrelevant right now. It's an excuse. The Security Act § 1-3 is more than enough to stop this sale. I can quote from there. It is therefore necessary to stop the acquisition of other enterprises when they have ‘information, information systems, objects or infrastructure essential to basic national functions’. If it is not within the framework, yes, then one has misunderstood, and then Section 10-1 applies, namely, the obligation to notify in case of acquisition. In fact, the purchaser is required to notify, the acquirer of the business. Here it was Rolls-Royce who reported, but the Russian company also had to report from, which it obviously did not since the Council of State referred to Rolls-Royce. This shows a dramatic lack of coordination that should have been at the very top of the government. First, one went – what was it called – the export control track. Well, I've been working in the Ministry of Defence myself, and I've been working in the defence industry. They knew this when they were working with the defense industry in the Ministry of Defence, quite quickly. I am convinced that a note has gone up to the management about this that has been ignored, or you have not understood the seriousness. It's dramatic in itself. It takes four months to read its own safety code and has only now come to this conclusion. It is thanks to the opposition in Stortinget and some media. The fact that you have to meet at all in the main hall and give an explanation is in itself a confession that you have not attended the class. You don't know. You have used your left hand and not seen what your right hand has done. It is itself a scandal, and I maintain the word «candals». I also support Jette Christensen from the Workers' Party's proposal that a proper statement be made, so that we also know how the Defence has been involved and informed, and how the government has dealt with this from the Department to the Department, if one has been coordinated at all. It turns out they haven't been. Of course, you can talk about the future, which the Council of State spent 25 out of 30 minutes doing, doing better in the future, but the matter itself is so important for Norway's security. You just don't understand what kind of technology is in Bergen Engines. Nor has it been understood or argued that this company has deliveries for engines for the Russian defence, including submarines. Had it been followed in the hour, the national documents produced by the company could be read, informing them that the ambitions for the future are to develop engine technology for submarine activities and other vessels within the Russian Navy. It was published in 2015 and in 2017 the company found that it could actually deliver this. In that case, the Norwegian Government cannot say that it did not know and could not and did not understand what they were doing, that the national safety authority was not sufficiently involved, that it first went to the Ministry of Industry, which was to see if it was a business transaction — or the food trail, as it is called. This was obviously a matter that should have been in the government security committee and discussed there, with the Prime Minister present, because this is the greatest acquisition to a country outside NATO we do not have security cooperation with. It could have been any company in Norway of the order of magnitude that was sold for SEK 1.6 billion. NOK, a company that went 1 billion. NOK in deficit. Now I'm not going to interfere with the transactions, but there's a reason that the stock price in Rolls-Royce went up 40 pst. overnight. Something has to say -- it was an excellent sale of Rolls-Royce, and a purchase of the Russian company that it obviously needed for engine technology and not least for parts of the central technology for stationary engines in their own marine defense. The right of the government is good. Bergen Engines stays, and now we're going to see what Rolls-Royce does. It may be that Rolls-Royce has made a good sale and may not be interested in that company, because they have already said so. What does the government do? Will it buy up this company to save jobs and technology?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e576	We notice that the government has now initiated a spin-off operation in 12 hours and announces that they will stop the sale. The government confirms, after minimizing the matter and making excuses for weeks, that this is a sale that will have great military, strategic value for Russia. It will involve the export of technologies and engines to Russia which are not in Norwegian or Alliert interest. I think it is alarming to think about what could happen in this matter if the media had not mentioned it, and if not the opposition had intervened and been vigilant for the government's security policy work. There appears to be little credibility when the Minister of Justice is now trying to give the impression that the government has had full control all the way. They have known about the matter since 15 December, as it has now been confirmed in the statement. And there's a lot of creeping around the timeline from December 15 to now, where there seems to have been a total failure to protect Norwegian security interests across both the Prime Minister's office, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice. On 4 February, after the U.D. had known about the matter for allegedly over a month, a notice went directly to the Prime Minister's office about the sale, where it was stressed that it should be checked that the security of the state would not be affected by this sale. On 8 February, four days later, the PST, the E-Service and the NSM came up with a new threat assessment and repeated what they had said for several years, namely that foreign purchases of strategically important enterprises, infrastructure, etc. is a threat to Norway, that Russia and China are the biggest threat actors for us, and that they will use economic instruments to secure their influence in Norway. On the basis of this, the Central Party just took up national control of the Prime Minister in Stortinget’s Question Time on 17 February, where we asked if the Prime Minister was concerned about foreign purchases in Norway. That was what the Prime Minister thought there was no reason to worry about because we had the Security Act to protect us from that kind of threat. It is not reassuring that the Prime Minister stood here in Stortinget on 17 February and assured us that the Security Act protects us on the issue of national control and the threat from foreign purchases, while this matter took place in the scenes. On 21 February, four days after that again, the matter became known in the media, and then the Ministry of Economic Affairs, with its much-mentioned statement that the government could not, or should, interfere in the sale because this is ‘a contract of sale between two commercial operators’. Now the Minister of Justice is trying to reject it as a purely commercial policy response, but it is the Ministry of Industry that is responsible under the Security Act, so it seems to me as an attempt to calm down from that failure. Minister of Foreign Affairs Ine Eriksen Soreide was also asked whether the Security Act is comprehensive if Bergen Engines is not to be covered. She said, "In this case, we are concerned that the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries has said that this is a transaction, a commercial agreement." Minister of Defence Frank Bakke-Jensen has spent a lot of time minimizing the matter. As late as February 23rd, he compared Russian insight into the engine technology of the E-service spyware to the fact that the Home Guard is driving the Volkswagen pickup. And on 1 March he replied in writing to Stortinget that the Safety Act does not apply. It was asked specifically whether the Safety Act had been assessed according to Section 10-1, cf. § 1-3, which Tybring-Gjedde had in mind, or other provisions of the Security Act. He then replied that it does not apply. Why did the Minister of Defense not say that there was an assessment under § 2-5 if that was the case? There are still many unanswered questions in this case. We wouldn't be here now if the Right hadn't had such a naive relationship with the threat from foreign purchases and national security. The Central Party believes that we need to have the statement sent to the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee in order to be able to come to an end in all aspects of this matter and to make sure that this cannot happen again in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e599	So that's how we feared. There was a basis for intervention and termination of sales, and there were important national interests at stake. I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for his statement. It was clarifying at that very point, in the conclusion, the necessary conclusion. But it was so unclear on other points that this case cannot be over with this. After hearing the Minister of Justice, it's hard to figure out whether what we just heard was a turnaround, a retreat, or whether it's credible, as the government gives the impression, that this would happen completely without the opposition and media interference in the matter. There is considerable confusion about why the government has communicated so confusingly during these weeks. It is difficult to see the relationship between what the government has said outside, both to the media and in writing to the Stortinget, and the explanation that this process has gone exactly as it should have. Let's look at some of the things that we have to get to the bottom of. Firstly, how it is possible, if the government has worked all the way on the matter and today's conclusion was a possible outcome, that the government has communicated so confusingly along the way. Take, for example: State Secretary Lunde's statement. Now I hear the Minister of Justice say that it was a general industrial policy response. It was at least very well suited to create the impression that the government was on the wrong track, very well suited to create the turmoil that has been in Stortinget. So I think that explanation – it must be allowed to say, with respect to reporting – seems a little thin. Then a very central question here is why Bergen Engines has not come under the Safety Act § 1-3, why the government has had to use what is the emergency brake in the Act, § 2-5. Is it because there's been unconsciousness somewhere? Is it because there has been a lack of coordination between departments? I notice that the Minister of Justice is also clear that Rolls-Royce may have experienced this as a green light. The question is, as I am addressing both councils' answers, whether it is not the emergency brake in the law that needs to be applied, is also a recognition that the government was late on the track. I would like to support and ask that this matter be sent to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, because there are obviously several issues related to both this specific matter and the coordination of departments and the work on the Security Act in which Stortinget has to be brought to an end. Then I also ask for a much clearer message on another important side of this matter. There's a clear commitment to the workplaces on the Hordvikneset. There are many employees who are now wondering what the future will be, who have looked forward to having a long-term industrial owner, who wants it. This is an important industry, and it is also an important future industry and part of the green shift in Norway. It is an important industry and an important enterprise to preserve in Bergen and Norway. It also means, as this case has evolved, that it must be a political responsibility to help a long-term industrial owner come into place, whether it be a private owner, or some kind of state involvement is required to achieve it. But I want to demand the government's commitment to this and the government's response to how one now, after this decision has been taken, will work to create security for those who work at Bergen Engines, and ensure that this important part of Norwegian industry remains part of our industrial environment in the West in the future, and that jobs are safeguarded. By doing so, I conclude, as I said, with the request that this matter be sent to the Committee for further consideration. I think that's absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e620	This matter should be simple. Russia’s oligarchs will take over sensitive high-tech industries that we need in Norway and that can also make sensitive information go to the Kremlin if they take over. In December this was a very simple solvable matter, but it still became a threat to the security of the kingdom, as well as 750 valuable jobs in Bergen, a unique environment of expertise we need, are at risk of being laid down. For most people the case appears quite simple, you should have stopped the sale from the first moment, but it is not that easy for the sitting government. Only three months after the government was notified, they are now taking action. It has been arduous to prepare for this statement, because for a few months we have now tried to get an overview of how the government has handled the matter, with the various departments that have sent it back and forth between themselves, and which have pointed to each other. It has also been demanding to keep up with the very wide-ranging answers that have come, not only from different state councils, but also the different answers of the same state council, State Council Bakke-Jensen, within a short time has given about the matter. So first, the Safety Act was not up to date because Bergen Engines is a subcontractor to the supplier that the Defence Contracts with. Then it suddenly turned out that it was not at all impractical to use the Security Act anyway, but only in a different way. Now let's use this statement to try to figure it out, and here the Justice Minister might also help us figure out how it was possible, and that it took so long. How is this possible in a situation where the national safety authority presents its threat assessment and where the first threat mentioned is State intelligence? In the case of a threat to the security of the State, the following is stated in the first paragraph: ‘By buying-in and investing in Norwegian business, foreign countries may have access to information and influence which is not in the interests of Norway.’ This is presented publicly while the government has the matter of selling Bergen Engines on its table. Then, however, a whole month goes by from the secret services getting information about the possible sale, to the defence minister being briefed. So it takes another month before the Defense and Defence Equipment are told to make assessments of how the sale will affect the construction and maintenance of the Defense ship. Then it goes two more weeks before the Ministry of Defence finds it too good to inform the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about the matter – at the end of February, that is, after the matter broke in the media, and after the questions began to hail. Does the Council of State understand that this does not imply a great deal of trust in the government's assurances that they have taken the matter seriously? What should we believe about the government's use of the threat assessment by the safety authority? Is that why we're here today, because the government hasn't taken it seriously enough, or are there any other reasons for this? And because of a mildly unlucky handling that the government is the act of its own privatisation tool, which over the years has allowed it to grow a messy and unwieldy forest of contracts, suppliers and subcontractors, which has once again made it necessary to have such a complex security law that the government doesn't know how to deal with it? And how does this privatisation regime in the Defence go along with the passive business policy of which the government likes to boast, which has made the Norwegian industry more and more on foreign hands, and which now makes the government play Russian rule with 750 jobs and our everyone's safety put in the pot? This is exciting to get answers from state councils today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e642	This case has created a significant cross-group involvement. It is both joyous and uplifting that the breadth of the Storing is gathering in the importance of safeguarding our national security interests. The large number of media collections and recordings from a number of interested individuals underlines the strong commitment of the wide range of Norway’s population to the protection of Norway’s security. If there were any doubts, I want to be clear that it is also my first priority as Minister of Defence. Since I was briefed on sales in mid-January, my department, in close cooperation with the EOS services and other departments concerned, has assessed the impact this could have, both for the defence sector in isolation and for national security interests at large. For natural reasons, we have not been able to go into detail on which studies were started. It has made room for claims that I take lightly the safety of the Defence ships and national security interests. Let me now point out once and for all that I take this matter very seriously. I have previously stated that Bergen Engines is not subject to the Safety Act by individual decisions and that the provisions on ownership control in Chapter 10 of the Act do not therefore apply. This has been a statement of the facts and answers to concrete questions that have been asked. However, some have interpreted this as being that I believe that the Safety Act does not allow intervention. There is an error ending. As the discussion in public space has developed, I see that we could be more clear that all available tools in the Security Act are being assessed. At the same time, I ask for an understanding that the sensitivity of these kinds of cases makes it possible for not all details to be published on an ongoing basis. Then I must also add that in my answers to the written questions, which I have sent to representatives in this room, I have also added that we continue to work with it. But questions about the impact of the Safety Act on the Defence Vessels in this case, around Bergen Engines, we have answered, and we have not found any basis for it to apply there. It has been claimed that Bergen Engines should be subject to the Safety Act. Bergen Engines is one of many civil actors used by the Defense. The number is increasing, and it is a desirable development, but we can neither, nor should, put all the activities used by the Defence into the Security Act. In addition, national safety authorities have not found any basis for criticising the defence of the risk assessments they have carried out in this case through their studies. I also record that the Security Act is interpreted by representatives in this debate. We also rely on the government attorney and his judgements in this particular case, and for the defence and defence vessels explicitly – maintenance, spare parts, operation – the involvement of Bergen Engines is not so extensive that it justifies their inclusion under the Security Act. But as I have answered the written questions, this is also an assessment we are doing further. I have also been clear that it is not appropriate to allow Russian companies to maintain the military material, and that the security challenges a purchase might pose for a contractual relationship between the defence sector and Bergen Engines will be manageable. That is, there can be other suppliers. The protection of defence ships is also not the most important thing in this case. The excellent engines developed at Hordvikneset are not decisive for the defense. The defense is actually a relatively small customer. There are 5,000 active engines today produced by Bergen Engines. The defense uses about 30. As the Minister of Justice explained, the main rationale of the EOS services is the assessment that the technology held by Bergen Engines and the engines they produce would have had a great military strategic importance for Russia, and it would have strengthened Russia's military capabilities in a way that would clearly be contrary to Norwegian and Allied security policy interests. It has been a particular point for this government to focus on the very safety challenges associated with such procurement. Under the new Security Act, we have established the necessary legal basis to stop the sale of strategically important businesses, regardless of whether they are governed by law or not. The new Safety Act has a robust tool to deal with these kinds of issues. However, the use of these instruments is highly invasive to those concerned, and it requires that a proper and adequate decision-making basis is provided. As a result, from mid-January onwards, we have cooperated with the departments concerned and, not least, with the EOS services, which are central to the provision of the necessary information, providing the necessary knowledge to make qualified decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e670	There were questions about why we were here today. Then I just have to say that it is because we perceive that this is a matter where there is a great political commitment. We have a great deal of respect for that, a lot of questions have been asked, and the government's presence in the matter is also called for. Then it is natural to ask to explain it. We got that, and we're grateful for that. Then a number of claims and speculations have been promoted related to both the processing of proceedings, the passage of time, etc. I don't recognize myself in it. I have explained how we have worked, as best we can and related to the information I can provide. That's one thing I'm responding to, and that's the claim that we've spent a long time, too long. I don't think we have. This is a very special case, it's a matter of very great consequences, and I want to replicate to Lysbakken and Christensen – yes, it's a matter of many employees. We're very aware of that. I referred to employees both in general using this tool, and in particular, and that is a matter we should of course follow closely by the government. It concerns many, people, employees and jobs. This also concerns our trade-policy alliances. We want transparent and predictable framework conditions for investment and cross-border trade. At the same time, as a society, we also need to recognise – we know – that we need to know what we are doing, we cannot rely on a threat assessment, unrated threat assessment, go into every purchase and sale in this country. We have to make thorough assessments. There are complex and perhaps unbridled threats we are facing, but we should not ignore them. We have therefore concluded in this case that we must stop this sale. It's an important decision, but it's also a special case. That's why we've also been clear that we have to learn from this. I'm not surprised by that, and I also have a lot of understanding that you want answers to more questions, and then you want to deal with it in the committee. And of course we're dealing with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e682	The debate on substance is closed. So 6 is over. The President has taken the view that there is a majority in favour of sending the statement to committee, and the President will come back to this at today's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e699	I think I can say on behalf of myself and the committee that I don't even think the debate will be as long as what I've been assigned in speaking time – 15 minutes. The case concerns the amendment of the Damage Compensation Act. The objective of the amendment is to set the capitalisation rate in the regulation, which in turn could simplify the settlement of claims, increase predictability of actors and parties and prevent disputes. The Judicial Committee is unanimous in recommending the amendments to the Law on Compensation for Damage. The Committee stresses collectively that such a basis must ensure that the capitalisation rate reflects the principle of the right of the injured party to full compensation. Today it is in Norwegian law that almost exclusively compensation is granted for damage to the person as a lump sum. Thus, the amount of the capitalisation rate will have a significant impact on the final amount of compensation. In order to determine the amount of the lump sum, it is necessary to prescribe an interest rate reflecting the rate of return the victim must be expected to receive on the capital he/she receives in present value. In practice, the amount declared and its return will cover the future damage in total. The Committee notes that the majority of the hearing bodies support the proposal. Otherwise, the Committee presents the specific challenges faced by the courts when compensation is granted for future damage to persons under guardianship, where the compensation is to be fully or partially placed as deposits as a result of the rules of the Code of Conduct on the management of financial assets. The Committee also points out that the legislative proposal takes into account the possibility for the court, in exceptional cases, to apply a different measure for the one-off replacement where special considerations so require and indicates that this proposed provision is intended to be a safety valve for exceptional cases and preferably for the benefit of the injured party. The Committee's recommendation is promoted by an overall committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e716	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e733	I would like to thank a unanimous committee, which has accepted amendments to the bankruptcy law. There is no topic that can unite this committee as strongly as this. The objective is more effective openings of bankruptcy. It opens up to move tasks from the courtroom or the governor to the bankruptcy register. In particular, the Bankruptcy Register shall ensure that the bankruptcy is cleared or recorded in different registers and that financial undertakings are informed thereof. Thus, after the bill, the Bankruptcy Register takes over the tasks currently assigned to the governor or the court under the bankruptcy law § 79, fourth and fifth paragraphs – and it sounds good.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e740	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e757	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e764	The starting point for the case is a central party proposal, a very interesting one, which is about establishing a gang in the police, based on Kripos, which will work to discover the networks and structures of the gangs across the country and internationally in cooperation with the police districts – and a number of challenging proposals in this way. Although the Committee shares much of the problem description in the form of a note, there is a disagreement here between the different batches. The majority of the Committee, i.e. The Labour Party, the Right and the Socialist Left, point out that there is a desire to step up efforts in this area, but refers to the police districts and further development of them and their prerequisites for combating organised crime and the criminal environment. However, there is a minority, the Progress Party and the Center Party, who want to move forward with this proposal, and then I take off the case-rapporteur's hat and go into the facts of the matter. It's actually a very interesting proposal that the Center Party has put on the table. I see it as, paradoxically, a continuation of the intentions behind the police reform, with the same intentions, that we are taking on board the fact that we are in a more complex crime picture today than we have done in the past, and that is the need for specialisation and particularly high levels of competence. There is a limited environment in Norway that has the necessary competence to assist the police, and there additional resources need to be deployed and the resources we have coordinated. That's a little bit of the idea behind the proposal from the Center Party. Generally speaking, we're going in the direction of, we're saying, a Norwegian version of the FBI, in the sense that we're equipping more with national resources to relieve the police districts in demanding investigations and in demanding cases, which are becoming more and more complicated. In a situation where we see recriminalism and, I was saying, traditional white-collar crime and organised crime increasingly floating together – working across more police districts, and we see dissensions abroad – it is absolutely necessary that we have a national effort that enables us to help the police districts. Police districts shall be taken on board but assist with the competence and work continuously to combat organised crime. We need that as a society, because the challenge we see today is most demanding, challenging, and actually worrying. In my view, it's a little too simple just to point to the police districts and say that we need to equip them with the tools and skills necessary to combat recrime, when we know that this happens across borders, not only between police districts but also abroad. The analyses are clearly present, and then we must also have a national effort, which is then quite natural to place at Kripos. An example is the encryption of digital platforms, a very special competence, which really hold relatively few people and have training and prerequisites to assist in. At least not all police districts have the prerequisites for engaging in demanding IT issues. Then you are dependent on assistance from Kripos, but Kripos must also work on this continuously. For this reason, the Progress Party supports the proposal of the Central Party. We think it is good to come up with new ideas and ideas, because even if we are about to end implementing a police reform, not everything is high. We have to adapt to the new reality, and then you have to, I think, take seriously when there are new, good proposals. Here we are listening to new, good proposals, and the Progress Party supports them. I'd like to take up the suggestions with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e779	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e784	The Labour Party strongly supports the intentions and specific descriptions of the proposal for a representative, on the situation related to recriminalism, criminal networks, challenges of ageing juvenile delinquency. When we do not now support the proposal for a central unit in Kripos, I will explain it. These include: Because for several years from the Labour Party, we have been most concerned with strengthening the police in the whole country, strengthening the police districts from north to south, east to west. A few days ago, the committee had an interesting meeting with the Police Directorate, Kripos and Økokrim, where we got good information about the work going on in Kripos. We were briefed on Operation Hubris, Operation Emma, etc., so today's debate is not about whether Kripos should or should not be working on serious organized crime, or Ecocrim for that part, they should, and I have the impression that the operations they're telling about, which have been for a long time, also have very good results. What the Labour Party has been calling for for for several years is a more dedicated and permanent effort, especially in the police districts, and, as we have underlined together with the Central Party and the SV, especially in the police districts concerned most. We have recently made good decisions here in Stortingen in connection with the police report, where we have decided that we should ask the government to enable the police to strengthen the work against recriminalism. So we also think it is important in the debate on organisation to put question marks by when it is right to propose new units and not. Because there are not very many weeks since we are dealing with the police reports, and then the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV were some of them saying that there should be no structural changes now while waiting for the evaluation of the reform of the neighbourhood police. So I think it would be natural to discuss any changes in a larger context and a greater sense of well-being. Then there is no doubt that the Labour Party still thinks that we need to strengthen the police force, we need to carry out the investigation promise and the prosecution pledge. These are the most important priorities for us. The fact that the victim of crime is in long, unworthy queues, while criminals get penalty discounts, that's not good enough. We also call for more tools to fight organised crime, and we need to strengthen the police districts with more resources. We have long pointed out that there is one too weak reinforcement of the local police, and we think, in the matter we are discussing today, it is quite central to have a strong Kripos in cooperation with a well locally anchored police force in the police districts. Then there are several suggestions that are being made here today. I just want to finish by saying that the Labour Party will support proposal No. 7, which we think is a good reason. It seems reasonable to ask the government to make sure that the police along with the National Attorney find a solution here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e799	I want to start by making an important clarification, and that's that I think this proposal has a very good intention. It's written by a representative I have great respect for, and that I know has a genuine commitment to an important topic. Then I have to jump right to the conclusion: the right believes that this is going to be extensive, it's going to be too expensive, and it's not the right medicine to deal with the problem we're facing. Today, Kripos has the national responsibility to address organised crime, and it is a structure that works all in all and should not change much. The proposal on the table today will, in effect, centralize a major new unit for Oslo. It has its consequences. I think it will be at the expense of the existing work, and it will be at the expense of the efforts of the police districts. It means a new administration, a new organization, new start-up investments and a very doubtful return on that use of money. In a little bit of curiosity about the proposal, we've been looking for agencies that can support this, either agencies in the police, external professionals or researchers or leaders or trade unions working in the police, but we haven't been able to find anyone who supports this proposal. Even Kripos, who will technically get this new unit, does not support the proposal. I think it's worth noting. Those who work to combat organised crime every day have, on the contrary, contacted and said that if this proposal goes through, it will weaken the ongoing efforts to combat organised crime. On the other hand, I also believe that the proposal has a level of detail that in itself makes it inappropriate for decisions in the Stortinget. It has been suggested that 24 hours per day be worked; it should be decided that there should be testing capacity, computer skills, informants, new technical equipment, etc. It's probably technically correct, but it's going to be on a level of detail that doesn't belong in this room. I think that the whole debate on organized crime makes us need to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. One is that Kripos alone does a very good job, and that it works well, and on the other hand we have to admit that we have to do a lot more. Then it's not crucial to have a new structure, as I see it. What we can do, we who sit in this room, is do what we're best at, that's to give new laws if needed, give more resources if needed, and make sure that the police have a management that allows them to win this important fight. The government has announced that it will return with a big message. That means that we are ready to adopt what is needed to win the fight against organised crime, defeat organised crime. It is a big message and a debate I look forward to with great joy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e820	Thanks to the rapporteur for a good report and good work on the matter. We have received important reports on the situation in the Justice Committee last week and before Christmas. This concerns the national police threat assessment and the December Ecocrim report. There are four main features of these reports. The first is an increasing threat to Norway from international criminal, organised networks. The second is that, within what we already know as a criminal gang in Norway, principals are more part of these networks. Some of those who have been on the street for a long time have become more backers who are based abroad, operating in a different way than on the street, as they did in the past. The third feature is that there is an extensive use of encrypted communications, of the dark network, of cryptocurrency and of complicated communication methods which are very difficult for the police to detect, and which require a great deal, as the case-rapporteur was about. The fourth feature is that several of the organized criminal networks, the rendezvous we've known, now to a greater extent than just holding on in Oslo or just in certain urban areas, have begun to appear many more places around the country, across the police districts. The question is, what do we do with this? In the police report that was mentioned here, we get no answer. It was then not mentioned. As we discussed in that debate, crime and the fight against criminal networks were organised, so to speak, not mentioned. This also applies to the letters of assignment to the police from the government in recent years where the theme is not addressed, except perhaps in a petition here and there. We get a completely different picture of the threat assessments when we read these reports I mentioned – one we got presented last week – a much more serious picture of an increasing threat. The question we have to ask ourselves, and which I am pleased that everyone is taking seriously here today, is how to deal with this. It's pointed out that yes, we have to use the police districts, build them up. Of course we will, but we also need to look at the situation in the police districts. I'd like to refer to s. 107 in the Police Analysis, which was the starting point for the so-called near-police reform. It states that at least 20 persons should be assigned to the management of organised, cross-border mobile crime by each police district. They're gonna work around the clock. It was commented that the daily service was detailed management. They're supposed to be working around the clock, it's in the police analysis. They must have special skills, including: be able to operate with open and concealed sensing. If we look at the situation in the police districts today up against this, it is in my knowledge – it builds, among other things. under the supervision of police districts by state lawyers — two or three police districts are close to having 20 people working on this. And that should be a minimum. There are three police districts that I have been informed have full-time scanners, while it was written in the police analysis that everyone should have it. When asked if they are able to break encrypted communications, the advanced new platforms or the dark network, police districts for police districts say they are dependent on Kripos, depending on their assistance. In fact, the situation is that we are very far from being equipped to meet this by just referring to the police districts. Kripos is in a situation where they have some competence, but they need a lot more, they need a lot more capacity to break encrypted communications. We've seen what they've done in Operation Emma and Operation Hubris when they've done it. They then deliver many important things to the police districts. Kripos also has far too little resources. They have far too little opportunity to provide assistance to the police districts in these matters and then develop their competence in the police districts. Kripos also has too little resources to deal with all of their own matters they should be addressing. This isn't about a structural change, which is really going to be a big deal about here, a centralization, and so on. It is a question of strengthening the work of the police in general in Norway, starting with those who have the greatest prerequisites for it, namely Kripos.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e848	I am grateful that the Centre Party is looking at new ways of combating crime in general and organised crime in particular. In their proposal, they point to the deterioration in police district capacity following the so-called near-police reform, proving that the way the police are organised matters. I agree. Nevertheless, in the Swedish Republic we have stated that we do not support this proposal. The proposers point to several cities they think could have benefited from this proposed new rendition, but it is especially the eastern region that is going on, both in the document delivered to the Stortinget and in the Central Party media play on the proposal. Therefore, it is worth noting that the police officer in the Oslo Police District, Beate Gangås, Kripos Chief Kristin Kvigne and the effective police officer in the East Police District, Per Solem, have stated that efforts need to be strengthened through existing structures, rather than by establishing new organisational units. The proposal by the representatives of Bøhler, Schlagsvold Vedum, Klinge and Gülsvik does not create security in areas with a high level of red tape. It's the other thing to do. This proposal and the media plays in connection with it rather create a harmful distinction where people feel an unnecessary distance from these areas and from the people who live there. It makes people afraid to move in areas that there's no reason to fear. In recent times, the Centre Party has joined forces with the Advance Party to tell us that young people in cities are dangerous. This story is then used by them to force more stringent immigration policies, stricter penalties, increased use of weapons in the police — and now the testing capacity of a unit to follow in succession. It's not measures we need. The Black Lives Matter movement has been strong for a long time. It became even more visible this summer, after a policeman killed George Floyd. «Defund the police» was a very central slogan during the Black Lives Matter movement on American soil. In Norway, this focus was not as strong — in Norway, the Black Lives Matter movement pointed to everyday racism and the fight against the structures behind it. The Black Lives Matter movement has been constructive and clear and raised structures that need to be illuminated, and I'm glad that SV representative Petter Eide has nominated the movement for the Nobel Peace Prize. Why am I interfering with the Black Lives Matter movement in a debate on police organization? Well, the proposers don't say the context out loud, but I think it's striking that when they want to set up a new specialised unit in the police, they don't want it to work with, for example. rape or violence in close relationships, which are major problems throughout society. No, they would rather focus their efforts on recriminalism — a problem of a smaller dimension and with impact areas in areas with a high minority share — at least as the Centre Party has produced the problem in the media. I talked a little bit about protesting against the police in the United States. Unfortunately, there are absolute trends in racial profiling in Norway, among policemen, weights and probably more. Random checks are not as random for everyone, but the race profiling here is not as strong as it is in the United States, and we have to make sure that it doesn't. This trust that exists in the police in Norway, I will keep, not put at risk by organizing the police to suspect any groups of the population. We all want the safest neighbourhoods across the country, and it is natural to warn against things that threaten this. But to warn against "Swedish states" must not result in our making our own "American states".
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e867	In recent years, crime in the Oslo region has fallen, while juvenile delinquency has increased. The vast majority of young people do not commit crime; a small minority are responsible for the problems of gang and youth crime. The most important measures we take for these young people are at school and in the community. The areas of Oslo with high juvenile delinquency are also the areas with the most child-restraint cases. To prevent crime among young people, we need to focus our attention on early action. Behavioural problems and crime are best prevented before problems have become widespread. Systematic work aimed at strengthening families with children and children in vulnerable situations, such as measures against child poverty, discrimination, bullying, behavioural problems and exclusion in the school and friend environments, is most important. It's about freedom and opportunities. Children and young people who have already entered a criminal career need help to get out of it. Children who have committed crime need responses that promote their sense of dignity. The left believes that we always have to start with the best of children. We need to find a balance between soft and tough measures, where the police get the tools they need, while ensuring early action and preventing recrime. Therefore, the Left believes that a new reorganisation with its own central frequency in Kripos is not the way to go. Police districts have been strengthened in recent years and better equipped to deal with repeat crime than ever before. Competences in police districts are being built in order to meet the development of the crime scene, and problems and concerns about recriminalism arise in particular in major cities. A central frequency could lead to resources that would be best counted out in the police districts instead of being placed in a separate central unit. Reciprocal crime is a priority task for the government. As mentioned, young people who commit crime often face major and complex challenges and require a broad approach. Soon, the Ministry of Justice will report on youth and recriminalism, which hopefully gives us both a good picture of the challenges we face and good tools to prevent crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e880	The fight against organised crime and criminal gangs is a high priority of the government. I am pleased that there is a broad political consensus on the importance of this work. There is also agreement on the importance of police districts’ efforts in this area and on the need for local knowledge and presence. This was confirmed at the latest by the Stortings during their examination of the police report in February of this year. After recent years of strengthening police and organising in fewer police districts, police districts are better equipped for capacity-building than before. Special competence in the districts is also being developed in order to be able to respond effectively to and combat the threat posed by organised criminal environments. I therefore think it is particularly important that the Central Party now wants to establish a new central unit at the Kripos, which will contribute to increased centralisation of police force and greater distance from the population. This is not a devaluation of the national expertise of Kripos. On the contrary, I think it is very important to build on the cooperation that exists today between the police districts, Kripos, Ecokrim and international cooperation partners. But I'm concerned that setting up a separate unit can damage already established and functioning professional environments and create uncertainty about the responsibility for follow-up. Police efforts have been significantly strengthened through the prioritisation of this area in the budgets for 2020 and 2021. It improves the ability of the police to avert and combat juvenile and recriminal crime through increased presence. The government will present a major report on childhood, youth and nightlife crime before the summer of this year. The Communication will describe trends and key challenges and, of course, propose action. The establishment of a national gang at Kripos could work against its purpose and move resources from the police districts to the central level in this field. This is competence and experience acquired through work against criminal environments over time, which we cannot afford to lose locally. I also emphasise, as mentioned, that the management of Kripos, Oslo Police Districts and East Police Districts does not believe that the creation of new organisational units serves the fight against organised crime. In the case of the EMD judgment on police cell reviews, which came on 17 December, it is quite right that it limits the possibility of seizures. The Department, together with the National Attorney and the Police Directorate, is now working on temporary solutions related to the prosecution directive and on legislative and regulatory changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e902	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e907	Organised crime is a priority of the government, said the Minister of Justice. In 2016, the impending Minister of Justice Anders Anundsen in Stortinget said that it was a great day for the fight against organised and serious crime and terror. As we know, the fight against organised crime must take place in international cooperation, and in recent years several media have revealed that there are major problems in setting up the important agreement operationally, that the work has been heavily delayed, and that the budget has a total budget of several hundred million dollars. The Minister of Justice said last March that the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are working to ensure that all necessary steps are taken to ensure the entry into force of the Prüm Agreement. My question is: What steps has the Minister of Justice taken, and what is the status now of the important – and what was also referred to as the historical – Prüm cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e914	I can assure you that we have worked continuously on this project as well. Then I admit that the last year has been particularly demanding for the police, given that we have been in a pandemic that has also taken a lot of our and the police directorate's resources. So we're late. I can't say just when this is in place, but we're working as fast as we can just get this in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e919	I thank you for your answer. Does it mean, then, that the Norwegian police are in exactly the same place as in 2016, that a user uses at least one week's work in doing a data search for DNA tracks from foreign wardens and criminals?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e924	I dare not explain the status of the technical work. I assume something has happened since 2016. But when it comes to the Prüm cooperation, we're late, we just have to admit that. Then we have to give priority to getting it in place now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e929	Thank you very much for your answer, for your clarification. My last question about the Council of State can then confirm that what was mentioned by the Erna Solberg government in 2016 as a historic day for the fight against serious organised crime and terror – in 2016 – is not operational as of March 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e934	I totally disagree with the premise for the question. It's happened a lot in this area. It was referred to the police analysis, it came in 2013. After that, we have had a police reform, we have got new and stronger police districts, we have historically many employees, we have done something about the law and about resource use. It's doing something in a lot of areas. So the world is completely different in terms of police districts and Kripos’ work against organized crime today, than it was in 2013. But in the particular case of the agreement in question, we are delayed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e939	There is now a dramatic situation in the police's work on organised criminal networks, for the Riksadvokat's directive of 17 December on the seizure of telephones, iPads and other electronic devices that the police cannot even review if they say there is communication with lawyers and so on, and that it should then be sent to the courts of property, has created almost a stop in the police's work of analysing these tools for criminals. I had contact with someone in the police now who had sent the telephones they had seized, to the district court in Oslo. After 10 days, they had not received a message back – just told them that they had to hire skills to do so, because the right of way is not set up. I asked the Council of State about this on 7 January in a written question, and she said she was working on it. Now it's almost four to five months since December 17th. Why is there no explanation for this? It's very urgent, and there are practical solutions to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e944	At least three months have passed, but what I said then, and that still applies, is that we have to take seriously a judgment that came from the EMD. The Riksadvokat immediately did. We have to respect people's human rights, and we have to do that in a proper way. This means that it requires both regulatory and legislative work and change of practice. It'll take you a little bit of time to get in place. We are very aware of this, and the work to get this done has of course priority, so that we can again access information that the police obviously need.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e949	I just want to stress that this is acute. We have experienced in Stortinget that when there is something very urgent, we can get urgent and set up here in Stortinget to get it solved. There are now people in all the police districts who are going to work on what we are talking about today, organized crime, and who are not going on because the rights of things are not set up to accept these mobile phones and other things. I have, relating to what measures and legislative proposals we need, a question to the Council of State. Since Tor Mikkel Wara spoke about it in September 2018, it has been promised that legislation will be put in place to ban criminal gangs, bans on residence and new provisions on detention, so that criminal money can be recovered more easily. We decided on this at Stortinget by December. When will the Council of State bring this about? There has been talk about it for almost three years from the government to make such proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e956	I am pleased with the representative's invitation to urgent procedure on important matters. It will be important, and it may well be that it will be relevant – especially this spring, when we actually have a deadline by the government on Friday to promote legislative proposals for the Storting. So I'm very happy about that, and we can make use of that. In the case of other legislative proposals, there are now a number of changes. We promised IPE storage. We have promised a number of legislative proposals and regulatory changes, on machete, for example. It's coming on and on and on. The Department of Justice and Defence is working very hard to get us out and put in place as many cases as possible before the Stortinget split up in June.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e964	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e969	Being a part of the gang we often think of as a positive thing, but in this context – when we discuss recriminalism and organised crime – it is not. Too many people get involved in gangs, which is harmful both for the future of the individual and for society. If we don't have enough gangs here to land, there will also be organized foreign criminals and incentives for a lot of socially damaging activity. The proposal from us in the Central Party is about establishing a national reunion at the Kripos to strengthen and coordinate the fight against organised crime across police districts and national borders. We make suggestions to strengthen Kripos strongly and to provide more resources for the police districts, so that they can give priority to the work against organised crime and gangs. So we have to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. In order to illustrate the situation in the police districts, I can refer you to the State Attorney's inspection of the More and Romesdal police district in the autumn of 2020. The report found that there were three people working on organized crime in the police district that is in my county. By 2020, there were 35–40 serious drug cases, which were handled by org. Krim in More and Romsdal. It goes without saying that these have more than enough to do. At the same time, the police threat assessment for 2021 points out, among others: on the activity of organised criminals against the fisheries and maritime food industry. Then it is revealed that the police districts along the coast are probably too weakly manned when it comes to organized crime. More and Romesdal is one of the states that has a significant fishery and seafood diet. Crime in these industries, of course, has economic consequences, but also resource consequences far beyond this. For this is about our food supply for the future and about ensuring viable populations and avoiding environmental crime from actors who cynically only think about their own ignition. Digital police work is also very important when it comes to organised crime. It is necessary to track tracks and communicate. The NC3 national unit at Kripos has an ambition to increase to 200 by the end of 2021. That goal is now down-adjusted to 150. We want to maintain the goal of 200. When we in the Center Party have a strong commitment to recrime, it's not just to avoid the crime that's the product of the gangs. It is to a great extent also to prevent people from becoming victims of crime, and prevent people who could have been good citizens from being dragged into gangs, which are very difficult to get out of again. Many people who now end up on the slope have simply quickly become part of the right crowd.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e982	I agree with the representative, Klinge. We're talking too little about the victims of crime, no matter what kind of crime we're discussing. I just need to comment on a couple of things. I agree entirely with what Jan Bøhler described when it relates specifically to what is in the Police Analysis. I mean what's lying there, and what was also in the near-police reform, is by no means followed up. We know that the situation in the police districts, even when it comes to the competence of financial crime, is that we are also far behind. The description of the situation in More and Romesdal also applies to several other police districts, and it is also the background that we believe the most important thing is to ensure that the police districts throughout the country are better equipped to fight against both recriminal crime, knowledge and competence and capacity when it comes to organised crime, and not least to strengthen close police. Then we look forward very much to the big message being notified here. There we expect that there will be most of what the Minister of Justice finally said, easy action. There is no lack of proposals from the Red-Green parties in the Storting in recent years for actions, tools, etc. I also expect that in this big message we will get an explanation of what happened to the Prüm cooperation. It might sound a little technical, but in 2016 we signed an agreement that would ensure more effective and good international DNA cooperation. I agree with the then Minister of Justice from the Progress Party that it was a very important day to put it in place. Now many years have passed, and many justice ministers have come and gone. I've challenged more on it. It's shown here that there's a lot of delays, maybe related to the coronary apathy. Here I think we should be careful to refer to the pandemic, because I have challenged justice ministers before today's Minister of Justice, long before the pandemic, on why this Prüm cooperation is not yet operational. We've had several media reports that it's worth 100 million. kr in budget heading. It's the community's money we're talking about, so we have to get a better answer to what's happened here. I look forward to the big message that is alerted. I would also like to underline the representative from Bohemia's point of view about the delivery and response to the need for better measures when indebted to withdrawal. Here, the Stortinget and the red-green parties have been clear for a long, long time, and therefore we expect a big message with many good measures in line with both what we have agreed here, and the government party is telling us to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e995	For us as elected representatives, it is absolutely essential to ensure that people's security is as secure as possible. There are many different measures related to it — ensuring a good living environment and ensuring good prevention, not least against children and young people. However, it is also important to ensure that strong and targeted efforts are made to prevent organised crime and to address organised crime when it occurs. From some speakers here, it almost seems that recriminalism is an imaginary challenge. Then I think that the speakers and the parties could take a trip to some of those who have experienced this in close proximity, for example those who work at the Egon at the Triad in Lørenskog, who have experienced shooting in the restaurant, or those who have experienced in other parts of Rome that the international criminal MC network Satudarah has tried to establish itself. One wants and asks for a targeted effort from local police, and local police have made an important effort, but one also asks for a more powerful national effort. I notice that the parties in this room that have been responsible for the most powerful centralization of the Norwegian police force are now talking with the utmost concern about strengthening the local police force. But when we in the Central Party – not just in this case – propose a national presence to strengthen the specialised work nationally, and we propose to strengthen the work against organised crime in the police districts, the same parties vote down both parts. They will neither strengthen targeted national work through Kripos to get more targeted efforts there, nor participate in binding proposals to strengthen the work of police districts. Of course, this is related. We have to make sure that we have a targeted reinforced national work with specialists, while strengthening the police districts, which the Central Party has worked with over time. This is exactly what helps local police work. What's not helping local police work is what's happened during today's government, with a strong building of bureaucrats within the Police Directorate. No, on the other hand, having specialists working around the clock with internationally organised crime to support local police work makes sense. It is therefore a pity that this proposal is not being adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1012	It has been interesting to listen to this debate, because I feel that everything other than what is at the heart of the matter is being discussed. One constructs a problem that it is a problem that police districts should work against organised crime, the criminal gangs, as if it were against having national resources that should be able to do the same to an even greater extent. That's what I think is a pretty funny problem description, because it's about doing both of them at the same time. Of course, local forces in the local police districts need to be able to deal with these issues, but they are totally dependent, in particular on some very specific points, on having a specific competence and specific efforts at national level. In the vast majority of countries, equipment has been chosen that way. When we see the increasing crime scene, it is completely incomprehensible to me that the Stortinge today does not actually vote for this, which is actually a good proposal from Jan Bøhler. The Progress Party is voting for what we are for and against what we are against. We do that in this case, and we are going to support this proposal. I feel that here we are discussing something quite different from the proposal that is on the table. The Socialist Left makes this an opportunity to talk about Black Lives Matter, as if it were a topic in this case. Although there are many issues SV addresses in its article that are important, it is difficult to understand that it has some connection with what we are discussing here today. On the right, I feel that I'm simply trying to construct a resistance in the police against this. It is clear that when the top political leadership of the police opposes the proposal, it will require a little – let's say – guts from police leaders to go against what the Minister of Justice has said and said to the media and also replied to the Stortinget. To ask that police officers in Kripos, the Police Directorate and other places out in the police districts should think otherwise, I think it might be a little too much to expect. But if you listen to the police who sit closest to the problem, if you ask police service women and men who experience challenges with organized crime, they actually think this is a good proposal, and I think that maybe you should take it with you. The working party of course talks about everything else. They talk about Prüm and a little bit of different things and fight against organized crime in general, but unfortunately the Labour Party fails in this matter. Although it may have been promised in the premise when the proposal was presented, it fails today, and unfortunately the proposal does not have a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1027	I can confirm to the representative Amundsen that there are probably different opinions about this among those who work in these floors that are mentioned. It is not very surprising that the leaders of the Oslo police districts and the Kripos and East end up in the current structure. I think it is excessive to say that there is a ‘new structure’ we are going to build up when we want to build a unit in Kripos, where you, for example. have also built up the National Cybercrime Centre, NC3, in recent years without being called a ‘new structure’. What I wanted to follow up is this with the capacity in the police districts, when it refers to it, in relation to what I read from the 2013 police analysis. I don't want to go into numbers, how many people are working on this in the individual police district, that's not right. The representative of Klinge refers to a public source, namely a supervisory report from More and Romesdal police districts, and there are similar supervisory reports. Unfortunately, the information I have from many people working with this in different police districts is that the numbers are very low in many places when it comes to the number of people who work with organized crime continuously, and who are not moved between different tasks, but have the task of following these environments around the clock, as was stated in the Police Analysis. I don't want to ask for an answer to that today, but I'm aware that it's been developed, after reporting from every police district, a POD report on the capacity of organised crime in the police districts. And I would encourage the Council of State to consider how she can inform the Justice Committee about the capacity of the police districts, so that we get that overview, and that there are not only sporadic numbers that I and others can mention, but that we can get a report. I am aware that some of this is subject to silence. That's why I don't go into numbers here now, but the things that I'm sure I have information about in terms of capacity are ominous. It is important to remember that the work on organised criminal networks goes on – if we take it primarily – four levels. One level is on the street, where those who sell drugs, those who engage in violence, etc. are. The next level is the ones that deliver to them. The level above there are the replicas and the circle around them. And the level above there are backers, who often sit abroad or are part of international criminal networks. Kripos is working with the two top levels – the backers, international networks, repeaters working across police districts, who stay far away from the street in order not to be caught – and we need that, and it is the police departments that depend on being done in order to do their job. So I think it is wrong to expose the country to the risk that we do not take these alerts seriously and do not equip the capacity to access the networks.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1040	I take the floor again after being referred to by the representative Amundsen, who is struggling to find the relevance of the matter in the post I made earlier. Of course, I would like to clarify that. I also thank you for being mentioned and thus offered up again here, in a way – I only meet here as being, so I accept with both hands all the opportunities I get to stand here. It's nice. I think that Black Lives Matter is very relevant in this case, because they take racist structures seriously. I'm also trying to do that. Especially because – as I mentioned in my post – police and police violence have been so much the focus of the Black Lives Matter movement, I think it is relevant to address it. Furthermore, I believe that the Central Party and the Advance Party are sometimes deliberately targeting immigration-critical voters, with populist playouts. I think that's dangerous, and that's not something I take easy to say, because it's a serious charge to say that some parties and representatives come with racist and populist play. But I think this might be called it. I think it's populist because it goes so far beyond the professional advice. The proposers lack complete evidence of the extent of the problem. So I think it's overplayed to make such a big deal out of it, as opposed to rather caring about e.g.. rape and violence in close relationships, which we have solid evidence of already. Several speakers in this case have said that we must have two thoughts in our head at the same time. It's a little bit of a fun and used-up expression that can be used for absolute everything, really. I think you should always have at least two thoughts in your head at the same time, and one of those thoughts should be the racist structures on which this society is built, and which the police can also get hurt to put too much emphasis on, if we make organizational changes like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1053	The representative Jan Bøhler has spoken twice before and gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1058	I have to say that I am very surprised at the nature of the proposal for a gang that is about combating criminal environments that in particular expose the areas where we have poor people and young people who need support and help, about combating these networks – that it is called a racist proposal. I have to say I was very surprised at the characteristics. It was tones I was not prepared to hear in terms of efforts against environments that expose everyone to insecurity. When SV says that we do not have complete documentation, the presentation of the National Threat Assessment by the police last week has not been followed by an increasing threat, or read the December report by Ecocrime on how this threat is increasing, and how recriminals are now entering many types of crime around the country. I am disappointed in such characteristics.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1067	The representative, Lene Vågslid, has had the word twice in the past and is given the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1073	The Labour Party takes most seriously what is in the police threat assessment and about which I am well informed. I just want to say at the end of the debate that at times this debate could seem like Kripos doesn't exist today. For the Labour Party's part, I would just like to stress that the intention, and the particular reality descriptions of the challenges of recriminalism, is completely sharing the Labour Party with the Centre Party. We want to strengthen the police districts and the Kripos, but we also believe, as we have suggested earlier, that we should strengthen the Ecocrim. So I don't think it falls to a need for a specialized national unit in Kripos or not, but I'm overconfident that the Labour Party together with the Center Party is finding better solutions for the police of the future than what today's right-wing government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1080	The representative, Mr Foss, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1085	Once again, I want to say that we agree that this problem is real, and that people's experience around it is real. I want to meet the representative of Bohemia by saying that the documentation, of course, exists, but that is the extent of the problem that is not well documented, I believe, to create a completely separate unit for it. I have explained in the past that it is not necessarily the proposal and the text of the proposal itself that builds up to a racist undertone. There are more media releases that have emerged in connection with this proposal, in which I believe the Centre Party has deliberately played on the interests of immigration-critical voters to make this matter something bigger than it is. I think that's important, because we can't keep doing that. We can't continue to blame immigrants for everything that's wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1090	I think it was a little interesting to hear the debate here now. I feel that the Workers' Party, with the representative of the Vågslid, is very concerned about smoothing out disagreements between the Workers' Party and the Centre – that one should be able to find out things if one ends up in position and ends up in government. I may experience that this debate has proved the opposite. A representative of the third party who is likely to have to participate if there is to be a majority after the election, God forbid, of these red-green parties – yes, they must also have SV – has just described the proposal of the Central Party as a racist proposal, at least related to the media performances in that way. It does not necessarily appear to be the best starting point for these three parties to come together and be able to establish a good justice policy serving countries and people. To the extent that you can see disagreements between the parties that make up today a non-socialist majority on the Storting, I think it's little about what we're going to see if there's going to be a red-green majority after the election. Because this is demonstrated in a rather limited debate like this, which is about concretely strengthening Kripos nationally in order to strengthen and maintain national fight against reindeer crime and organised crime. It is possible for the Centre Party and the SV to make a conflict case, where the ‘r-word’ is used – describes each other as racists. That might illustrate a little bit of the problem. In this way, I hope that you can rather get together through other constellations in the Storting to get a good majority, as we are showing today, by the fact that the Progress Party and the Center Party are able to find each other. If we had additionally managed to get the Right to make some good decisions today, we would have had a clear and clear majority. I'm not going to wonder too much about it, but I see it can be exciting times in Norwegian judicial policy in the future if it's the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV who are going to control it shoot together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1101	The President will recall that it is not considered to be a good parliamentary practice to call on the Lord of Spring from the pulpit. That is also pointed out earlier by the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1106	The SV representative says that you can't blame immigrants for everything that's wrong. No, and then it's important that you don't get quoted saying it when you've never said it. Some of what makes Norwegian policy as good as he is, despite the fact that we are disunity as a party, is that we are basically in fact honorable when we refer to what others have said. That representative from SV said instead, was not honorable in any way. In the Central Party, we have put forward this proposal to repress organised crime and recriminalism by looking at structures. That's what it's all about – looking at Kripos and the structure that's there, and in the police districts, and not just structure, but also, to a large extent, resources for both the Kripos and the police districts. We might disagree about it, but if we're starting to disagree about the reality description, what's the intention behind the proposal, we'll wear it out. Sometimes reality is just fine, while the eye that looks at reality is ugly, and in this context, it's SV's eye to reality that's odd, not the Center Party's intentions or suggestions. That's what I thought was worth saying. Because when something is referred to in the Great Council's pulpit of all places, as it were, as if we owe it to immigrants everything that's wrong, it's actually necessary to say it, no matter what representative who chooses to use the words from the pulpit on the Grand Council. So it's important to remember that this is about gangs and organized criminals from Norway, but also about organized criminals who come from abroad. It's an important part of the picture. It's a mixed image. It is about everything from drug crime and trafficking in human beings to fishing crime. It's such a big tension. As mentioned, for us, this is a matter of structure and organisation, but not least of resources for the purpose. For us in the Central Party, it is unlikely important to lift this area with very good intentions that people should not be victims of gangs and organized criminals, but we also have good intentions that people should not be dragged into these gangs and this organized crime. Because people are actually being pushed into ways that make it impossible to get out of it. For society at large, it is extremely important that we manage to reduce this type of crime – it is also about our ability to have a welfare society for the future by facilitating the creation of value in society, for taxes to be paid, and for our ability to finance the welfare state in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1117	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1134	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. The first speaker is Per-Willy Amundsen, for the rapporteur on the matter, Kjell-Børge Freiberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1143	In concrete terms, this is a proposal from the Central Party, which reads: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for digitising the application for authorisation and for stockpiling and introducing weapons, including a concrete progress plan for the project, at the latest in the revised state budget for 2021.’ There should well be a revised national budget. This is a matter to which the Committee substantially subscribes. This proposal has a majority today. It is only the Right Members of the Committee who are not included in the vote's proposal for a decision, so I am not going to go any further. But I also show that the Stortinget has already adopted the position of digital arms management in the sea. We did so in connection with a case earlier this year, and we see it as perfectly natural that we follow up the proposal and implement digitisation. It is worrying that in some police districts a very long waiting period is experienced, reference is made to proceedings of up to 24 weeks. It varies greatly, from 3 to 24 weeks, so it's quite obvious that you have a lot of winnings on getting a centralised administration. It is for the benefit of the inhabitants of this country. It's very good to use the modern tools that exist, and digitalization is of course only good. This proposal is being adopted today by a majority consisting of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1159	Today's weapons management system is completely out of date. We've been doing that for a long time, actually. I was the case spokesman for changes to the Arms Act in 2018. We joined the Arms Directive, and the fact that we have not yet reached digitalisation here in 2021 is actually quite bad. As the representative of Amundsen pointed out, we made a very important decision in connection with the police communication, where we decided to set up a national digital weapons register to be added to the Brønnøysund Registers and the Mosjö, as the Council of State also writes in its reply letter. So we absolutely support the proposal and think it is good if the government already in the revised national budget comes up with the plan that one here is asking for. It is important to remember that we have received criticism from the National Audit Office when it comes to arms management, so here it is important to get it in place. I think it is a good thing that this proposal is getting a lot of people today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1166	The opposition parties in Stortinget have methods that are gradually becoming quite recognizable. It's to travel important, big debates, but all the time have as a premise that nothing is done, nothing is done, everything is just a standstill. For example, there are big-time messages: if they just get a big message coming across the horizon, they're proposing that we now need a big-time message. Or if any legal provisions are requested, and it is notified by the government that it is under preparation, they propose that these legal provisions should now be made. Or if an international work is done, e.g. against the EU or other bodies on international rules applicable to Norway, they are fast on the ball to propose national rules in this room. Similarly, we see that Stortinget has made pre-sales to advance a digital arms management – which is already in full swing and is coming. In the fall, the State Council informed Meland that digital arms management is coming, and earlier this year it was announced that it would come within the harvest hunt. However, the majority in the European Parliament must adopt something with a premise that nothing is really being done. It's not that dangerous, it's quite nice to turn open doors, but it's a little interesting to observe. Another thing that's pretty interesting to observe is the game around the lake. I think that's more problematic. They went out in the police report and decided that a weapons register should be set up in the lake. The cake came out, and big words were used. The bears were out there and said that there would be a place between 15 and 20 jobs. The paper said that it is a quick start, but that we must remember that the Brønnøsund registers started with 15-20 jobs. So there's no way to think about what expectations are built around this project. It's deeply problematic -- it's very, very problematic because it's going to be a big fall when these expectations are most likely not met. Those who work with the weapons register don't understand what this is, they scratch their heads. The Judicial Committee fully agrees that the arms management should initially be decentralised. Running a register does not require 15-20 annual works, as the Bears Schjörn claims. When I challenge him on it, it just comes back that you don't want to go into a polemics. So you repeat the statement and keep your expectations alive. The opposition writes in the setting that they are satisfied with the decision. I think that the inhabitants of the lake would have been satisfied if you could get a clear idea of what this project is. How many people should be employed? What are the dimensions? What are the tasks involved? It had been welcome, and it had also made me happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1179	Frölich was probably in on another theme right now, it's not about national registers today, it's about digitized weapons applications. Many Nordics have, over the years, come to know – and are still getting to know – the GP-6121-B form. It's a form that has breakthrough paper. While many think of breakthrough papers in connection with the tip-up notes that disappeared in the mid-1990s, this form is the police’s request for weapons by 2021. In September 2018, we were able to read in the Police Forum that the police's handling of arms requests takes a lot longer now than before. Citation from the leaf: «Before we cooperated with the Arms Office of the police in the old Rome-rich police district. They were constantly fast, and would like to use no more than one to two weeks from the customers submitted an application until the case was processed, says Morten Landrø, Managing Director of the Arms Store Magne Landrø AS." At present it takes ten to twelve weeks to deal with arms requests in East police districts. This is a consequence of the near-police reform, which, paradoxically, would ensure more efficiency and shorter processing time. There is a huge difference in the length of proceedings on arms requests between police districts. For a Moi hunter in Rogaland, the application takes three to four weeks. For a hunter in the neighboring town of Flekkefjord in Agder, the application takes 24 to 28 weeks. So there is a maximum of five months difference in procedure. Wasn't the government talking about more like police services? Digitisation of arms applications will save hunters and weapons owners for time, and police officers will not sit and interpret manuscripts from a breakthrough paper. Of course, the arms administration still has to go in the police district, as it is today, but we in the Central Party think it makes more sense for the police officers to take time to actually print arms licenses, operate with control of shooting clubs, home control, negotiators' checks, and visiting companies rather than writing off forms. It is also strange that there are so huge differences in the procedure between police departments. South West and Finnmark spend three to four weeks, while there is one to five months longer in the same job in More and Romesdal, South East, West, East, Oslo, Inland and Agder. The government is talking a lot about digitization. But the introduction of weapons applications using existing technology is therefore very difficult to achieve, although it will actually make everyday life easier for people. In a digitalisation circular from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation in mid-2014, which also applied to the police, it is called: ‘All relevant applications, forms and reports with an annual submission volume exceeding 3000 shall be open to digital completion and transmission by 30 June 2015.’» We're almost in April 2021, and this is still not in place. We record that there is some confusion when it comes to forward arms management. But just as we have a central passport register and decentralised passport office, we will need decentralised weapons offices in every police district. It is the local police who know people, negotiators, clubs and the environment in their area, and who have to assess who is capable of carrying weapons, along with other factors in arms management. Local control of clubs, negotiators and people is required. The same applies to e.g. the receipt of weapons to be destroyed and assistance to persons with questions related to arms applications. About 600 000 Nordics are non-digital, or have weak digital skills, so there is of course a need for local arms management that can help people who cannot or will not complete applications on digital platforms themselves. We in the Center Party are happy that there will be multiples in the Stortinget for our proposal, even if the government is against, and we expect a good follow-up from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1213	As previously informed to Stortinget, the Police Directorate has started work on the digitisation of arms applications before the proposed representative was promoted. As the representatives have pointed out, POD has drawn up a draft investigation into police weapons applications. POD has assumed that both the applicants and the police benefit by digitising and that digitisation should take place gradually. Following the assessment of the Directorate, the first step should be the digitisation of applications for hunting weapons. POD is therefore now cooperating with Brønnøsund registries with a view to providing a digital weapons application for hunting weapons before 1 September of this year. The next stage of cooperation will be to plan the development of a new national weapons register and a digitised management solution and to assess whether the Brønn Island Health Registers can operate the ICT system on a police mission. My assessment is that this case is working well in the POD. They have a large project portfolio with many projects that are important for achieving different policy objectives and decisions, including the follow-up to ICT security as a result of criticism from the National Audit Office. This work is currently ongoing in POD. In the statement, the majority refers to the treatment of the police communication by the Stortinge, Decision 681, ‘establishing a national weapons register added to the Brønn Island Health Registers and to the Northland Police Districts with the administration of the Mos Sea’. In the majority’s vote on the decision, the Government is asked to ‘submit proposals for digitisation of applications for authorisation and for stockpiling and introduction of weapons, including a concrete progress plan for the project, at the latest in the revised state budget for 2021’. As a basis for the decisions, reference is made to the draft investigation into POD. The investigation is only part of the ongoing work on the development of digital solutions for arms management. The matter has therefore not been fully resolved. Digitisation is likely to lead to savings in the number of annual works in police arms management, but otherwise the arms management should be done locally in each police district. It would be centralizing and inappropriate to move this part of the administration to only one place in the country, away from local districts. It is therefore premature to conclude by how many annual works are affected by the opposition’s decision to set up a national register in the Sea of Mosque. But I can assure the opposition that the weapons applications are scheduled to be digitised until the harvest hunt starts in September.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1230	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1235	The right has been talking about data and digitisation for almost eight years, and has its own Minister of Digitalisation. I hear the government say they have good intentions and are in the process, but as far as I understand it, it's hunting weapons that are the first step when it comes to digitizing arms applications. There are a lot of weapons there that are not included in that should start with. The council says it's going to be a fall hunt. Do I understand correctly that it's just about hunting weapons and not other types of weapons?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1240	I really hope the representative has heard about digitisation, since there have been historical investments in the public sector in terms of digitisation over the last few years. It's absolutely right that we want to do things in order. In the case of weapons applications, it is appropriate that they be digitised until the start of the harvest hunt in September.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1247	I may have misunderstood, but I thought there was a place that it started with hunting weapons, and then other types of weapons come later. I'm just wondering, are there any types of weapons that can now be digitized from the fall hunt, or is it just hunting weapons? In case there's hunting weapons to start with, how long does the government council think it will take to get the possibility of a digital weapon application for all weapons types?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1253	It's true that there are hunting weapons we start with for the harvest hunt, and then we take things in order. Our police have the largest portfolio compared to very many other countries' police. It also means a large ICT portfolio. So we just have to take things in order. But this is a priority area, and I think it's going to be very good, especially for the users, that we're getting this in place. That's why you have to work as fast as you can. I can't give an exact time, but this is a work that's going on 'as we speak'.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1260	The last question goes on with the treatment period in the districts, because there are extremely large differences, from three to four weeks up to half a year. What do I think is the reason for this, and what will she do to improve it, so that the situation is good in all the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1265	The last answer is that digitisation will result in much better, more equal and simpler treatment, especially for applicants. This is about different priorities in different districts. We have said what are our main priorities, and that is to fight and prevent serious crime. This is simply a matter of prioritising and allocating tasks within the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1272	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1293	The central party considers national ownership and control of natural resources, enterprises, infrastructure and property to be essential for Norwegian security interests and to ensure that power over our own country remains in Norway. Without national and long-term ownership of important natural resources, Norway had looked different today. The concession laws have had a major impact on ensuring national and local ownership, both public and private, for example. hydro, soil, forest, fish, minerals, oil and gas. Foreign participations showed great interest in buying Norwegian watercourses at the beginning of the 1900s, while the capital requirement in Norway was high. Fortunately, however, some were on guard against Norwegian interests and so selling Norwegian Footfalls would be a lost value for Norway in the long term. It was warned that Norway would lose national self-determination and the possibility of stronger economic development in the future if the hydropower were sold. It was the origin of the so-called panic laws, which were introduced urgently to stop large-scale foreign purchases of Norwegian natural resources, and laid the foundations for the permanent concession laws, designed to safeguard Norwegian interests and create Norwegian jobs. In 2021, Norwegian ownership and national control have a meaning in addition to value creation and capital. Today, there is also a central theme for national security and national security interests. In 2014, there was a debate in Stortinget on Norwegian ownership and control, among others. The flight train, the Kongsberg Group and Telenor, and whether it would remain Norwegian or could end up on foreign hands. The Prime Minister then stated that: ‘I think that the whole debate on unorthodox or Norwegian is a rather foolish debate, to be completely honest.’ The national threat assessment for 2021 was submitted on 8 February. The PST warns that foreign purchases and control of natural resources, enterprises, properties and infrastructure may pose a safety risk to Norway. According to the E-service, the biggest intelligence threat is still coming from Russia and China. The expertise and space for action of the Russian and Chinese intelligence and security services has grown in recent years. There is a warning against: ‘purchasing and investing in Norwegian business may provide information and influence to third countries which are not in the interests of Norway. In some cases where it is illegal to purchase information or technology from an enterprise, it may still be lawful to purchase holdings in or invest in the enterprise itself. In this way, foreign countries will nevertheless have access to the information and, in particular, the possibility of sharing it.’;» PST Chief Hans Sverre Søvold said to the media after the presentation of the threat assessment that the Security Service has taken note of some examples of what might be the strategic purchase of land from foreign countries: ‘Real estates that may be located in a strategic area, such as airports, ports or in the vicinity of defence facilities, may be the challenge of having little means to prevent such purchase’; [[...]] said the PST chief. The government has repeatedly demonstrated in debates on the sale of Norway that we have a new safety law that ensures Norwegian interests, and that we therefore do not need a more principled approach to who should own critically important infrastructure, land, forests and businesses in Norway. It is therefore interesting to read that the PST manager also claims that, even with the Security Act, we have few means to prevent strategic buying-in from foreign countries. The Central Party takes the concerns of the PST Chief seriously. The Central Party recently received a majority in the treatment of the Northern Region Communication to ensure Norwegian ownership of critically important infrastructure, property and natural resources in the northern regions. This proposal would not support the Government parties. When we know that states like China and Russia want to position themselves in our northern regions, we need to take action. The centre party takes the input from the safety authorities seriously, and believes that collapse and government must join forces to safeguard Norwegian interests. We believe that Norwegian ownership of critically important infrastructure and property in the northern regions is an effective way to ensure Norwegian control and to prevent foreign countries from positioning themselves. The Right Party and the Advance Party have worked in government to sell Norwegian eternal natural resources and Norwegian key companies, such as Telenor, Mesta, Statkraft and Kongsberg Group. These enterprises own either defence technology or infrastructure, which is essential to ensure a safe Norway with equal opportunities throughout the country. For the Central Party, it is incomprehensible that the government repeatedly proposes to sell a lot of Norway. Which countries do you really know about today that sell their main businesses without being in deep economic distress? Ensuring local and national ownership of valuable and potentially eternal natural resources and important businesses is essential for a sustainable business strategy. In 2017, the Right Price Control on Forests was lifted. It's made selling forest properties lucrative. For the Centre Party, it is essential to ensure control of Norwegian resources, including land-based resources. It is unfortunate that Chinese or Russian investors get to buy Norwegian soil and forest or other strategic buying-in targets, which can threaten the security and sovereignty of the state over time. There are several examples of foreign actors taking control of Norwegian territory, for example: on Svalbard, where the right-wing government before Christmas rejected in Stortinget that they would intervene in order to prevent Chinese acquisition of mining rights. The centre party is all too often the witness that Right puts capitalism ahead of Norwegian security interests. In 2020, the Right also allowed German investors to buy a tropical forest property, larger than Oslo, because it was a limited company and could freely be traded without applying for a concession. The centre party then promoted a proposal to stop that practice in order to prevent similar purchases being seen in the future, and that for example. a Russian investor may enter and control large properties in Norway. As the safety authorities point out, it is difficult to assess each individual sale, because it may be the sum of sales of properties, companies or infrastructure posing a safety risk. But the Right then voted against the proposal to tighten up and stop this practice. When these issues are devalued over and over again and they do not want to take political action in the Grand Duchy, the impression is that the awareness of foreign purchases is not a high enough priority for the government. The centre party believes it is important that we get better digital preparedness and national control over technology, infrastructure and data storage. Digital preparedness is a central part of national security. It is about protecting ordinary people from the fact that sensitive information is being diverted, as much as it is about ensuring control of key national functions for Norway. Today, government purchases large amounts of services from multinational companies such as Microsoft, thus storing huge amounts of information on people and controlling important Norwegian infrastructure. This information is often stored on servers abroad, and we have little control over it. Recently, the Stortinget adopted a proposal from the Centre Party, the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left to provide a joint cloud service for the administration of data storage on public owned servers, such as: in Germany, France and the Netherlands. It is also a majority decision in the Stortinget for better digital preparedness, which the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left – i.e. the government parties – voted against. Last week, the Central Party also promoted a proposal for a roll-out message on national control, inter alia. technology and infrastructure. It's going to be interesting to see what position the right-hand government chooses to take on that matter. The Central Party considers digital preparedness to be a national responsibility that cannot be entrusted only to multinational groups. We should assess, among other things, national cloud resolution and better digital autonomy to ensure the safe storage of information held by the public. The size has now instructed the government to ensure safer data storage and better national control. It just shows that the Storting takes responsibility when the Right in Government does not. Twice in half a year, this has been updated here in Stortinget, for everything indicates that there are alien states that have broken into us digitally. The last attack, which was due to vulnerabilities in Microsoft, is likely to have been behind just China. In examining the long-term plan of defence in the autumn, the Centre also promoted proposals for a public national cloud resolution, so that information on national security can be stored safely in Norway. The right side has chosen to put data storage in the defence to tender, and cloud services from Microsoft have now also been used by the Defence. We have just been through a presentation here in Stortinget today on the Bergen Engines case, where a Russian-controlled company was about to buy an engine factory in Bergen that delivers technology to the Defense. The government has finally turned around and intervened to stop the sale, and has today confirmed what has been strongly warned against since the case became known in February, that this sale would be of strategic military importance for Russia, and that it would not be in Norwegian or allied interest that it was implemented. Nevertheless, until today, the Right has shown a naive attitude to the threat that this sale would pose. In the light of PST’s threat assessment – will the Council of States continue to designate the debate on Norwegian control and ownership of natural resources, enterprises, properties and infrastructure as ‘presumably foolish’, or what adjectives will it use now, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1355	It refers to the interpellation of the representative Emilie Enger Mehl to the Prime Minister, to whom she has asked me to respond. As I understand the representative's question, she asks the Prime Minister to answer if she would have mentioned the debate that took place in Stortinget in 2014, about Norwegian ownership and control, in a different way today. At the same time, the representative refers to the PST threat assessment for 2021, where PST warns that foreign purchases and control of natural resources, enterprises, properties and infrastructure may pose a safety risk to Norway. In 2014, the Prime Minister was clear on his message, a message that is also valid today. I quote her on the following statement: ‘We are concerned that we should develop ownership, we should ensure national control of the main enterprises.’ There is therefore no reason to suggest that the Prime Minister should mention Norwegian ownership and control differently today than in 2014. Security issues such as: PST warns against this year's threat assessment, was also on the political agenda in 2014. There are few countries that have a higher national ownership than Norway has. The role of the state as an industrial owner in Norway is therefore a major concern of the government, but state ownership can nevertheless be justified on the basis of specific national considerations. I refer here to the ownership message promoted by the government in 2019, where it is clear that the framework for the state’s ownership exercise is firm – and that we will continue to have national control over our main businesses. Norway is a leading industrial and technology nation, and Norway remains. Technology and knowledge are important values for Norway as it is vital that we are aware that we have – and abilities to protect and manage for the benefit of the Norwegian people. That's why we're concerned about state ownership in these companies. As the Prime Minister also pointed out in 2014, Norwegian business is entirely dependent on the supply of foreign goods, capital and investment. This contributes to value creation in Norway. We want profitable and competitive industries, and we want to create more jobs and greater values. International knowledge cooperation is also crucial for further development as a knowledge nation. Knowledge cooperation with other countries goes hand in hand with business, which in turn will contribute to strengthening Norway’s competitiveness and innovation capacity. At the same time, the government is concerned that international cooperation and business life require accountability and careful balances between different interests, including national security interests. Whole balances for different reasons are something that we are constantly working on in terms of how Norway's natural resources, businesses, properties and infrastructure should best be managed. Employment, industrial development and safety must be balanced against each other. This is something the government has also been very clear about in the Social Security Communication, where we, among other things, are. says: ‘Legitary concerns related to certain foreign investments need to be balanced against the need to maintain an open regime for investment in Norway’.» We must therefore be able to balance competitiveness with national security. This Prime Minister also stressed in the 2014 debate that the need for state ownership must be balanced against other needs, including the need for good competitive conditions for Norwegian business and security needs. The government takes seriously the threat assessments from PST and the other services. We are well aware that foreign countries are increasingly using instruments such as foreign investment, research cooperation and industrial espionage for, among others. to acquire advanced technologies which they are unable to produce themselves. It is a growing challenge for the development of civil and military technology to be increasingly integrated. Investments that contribute to the transfer of multi-use technologies may, for example: strengthen the military structure of another country. Therefore, the balances and balances between different interests, business and national security, as also highlighted by the Prime Minister in 2014, are becoming so important. The Bergen Engines case is a very good example of this particular challenge, and I've explained it thoroughly to earlier today. At the same time, ownership policy, including state ownership, is not the only instrument to be used to manage Norwegian values. I would like to point out here the central importance of legal regulation through the Security Act. I also refer here to the presentation earlier today on how the Security Act can be used as a tool to protect national security interests and values. Finally, I would like to stress that the overall aim of the government is to ensure that Norway remains a free, secure and independent country with political autonomy, economic stability and democratic values. But if we are to achieve this goal, we are totally dependent on international cooperation and interaction. Norway will continue to have an open economy and the government will continue to work for better conditions of competition for Norwegian business. The government therefore wishes to welcome investments, trade, acquisitions and knowledge cooperation from both Norwegian and foreign teams. But it has to be done in a way that safeguards national security interests. Therefore, due consideration for different national considerations, faced with each other on a case-by-case basis, is crucial, and that is precisely what the government is doing now, in the case of Bergen Engines.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1397	I did not see the Prime Minister's statement in 2014 as being addressed only to the isolated debate in Stortinget that day, but addressed to the general debate on Norwegian or foreign ownership. Therefore, it is not very reassuring to hear that today she would not have mentioned it in another way, as I understood the Minister of Justice. We consider that the government that now has the Right as the largest party has a completely different approach to the issue of national control, which on many fronts is such an important issue to safeguard Norway's security interests. It's about being able to see the whole thing. We have seen this today that the government has been bad at, with something like Bergen Engines, which affects many different departments. There has been a total failure in the ability to coordinate between departments, as it appears. Here the Ministry of Economic Affairs has been given an opinion without it being supposed to be representative of the government, and the matter has been sent between the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Prime Minister's office and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and everyone is pushing the ball over to each other a little. When the Gjørv Commission made its recommendations, the first of them concerned measures at national level: ‘The main recommendation of the Commission is that managers at all levels of the management are systematically working to strengthen their own and their basic positions and culture related to risk recognition [...]’;» That's what worries the Center Party: the government's attitude to the threat from foreign purchases, and the risk recognition that this is actually a threat to Norwegian security interests, as we do, among other things. has seen the Bergen Engines case. I wonder: is the government at all concerned that there is now a German company that owns more than 500,000 target forests in Tøndelag, and that those shares can be freely traded to e.g. Russia or China? They can also buy up other forest properties, so that the ownership in total will amount to a lot. I also wonder: why does the government not want to strengthen digital preparedness and ensure that there is less power that rests with multinational companies, such as the United States? Microsoft, when we see that just vulnerabilities in such companies make us, among other things. Has there been a computer attack against the Storting, against our democracy? Why do we not want to get involved and ensure better national control over, for example? digital preparedness and better digital autonomy for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1415	The interpellant said that our paths are separated, and we have a completely different entrance. I think that's absolutely right. It is that we are concerned that Norway is a small, open and export-oriented economy. We're dependent on exports, we're dependent on international trade. It is good for Norwegian jobs, it is good for Norwegian tax revenues. We believe that the EEA Agreement is the most important way to ensure Norwegian jobs throughout the country. So we're dividing our paths -- the Center Party has a completely different view of that. But I have to clarify one very fundamental thing, and it is not necessary to ensure Norwegian security interests that Norway and the state own a company, a land area or natural resources. This is exactly what the case has shown today, and the representative's description of the case is obviously unknown to me, and it does not match the statement I have made today. But of course the representative can choose to have his own speculations about it. It's like we have a law that can be used if there's national security interests that come into play, whether it's a forest or a factory, that we've seen an example of today. Then I have to say that I react when the government gets the responsibility for the Storting being attacked. After all, the Storting must take care of its security, and we must take care of the nation's security. Here I have experienced that until now we have worked very well, and I am very surprised at this kind of post from the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1424	Looks like Agent Enger Mehl's got blood on his teeth. She is now very concerned that everything should be in Norwegian hands, but then I think she has misunderstood a bit. Rolls-Royce owned Bergen Engines, and it worked brilliantly. There's nothing wrong with Rolls-Royce. Norwegian companies buy up foreign companies all the time, and I haven't seen any protests from the Center Party when it happens. It's going to be interesting to see if those protests are the same when it happens, but I doubt it. This is where it mixes. The rest of the world is all countries outside Norway's borders, which are all some creepy bandits, and we have to have everything in Norwegian hands. But that won't be possible. Nor can the representative Enger Mehl enjoy economic growth and great wealth and well-being because she does not get to the trade that makes the resources flow to where they are most efficient, so that everyone can get something better well-being every year. We should be very grateful for that in Norway. So here it's mixed up both which countries the representative thinks are creepy, and what resources she's talking about. It's not that a raspberry bush in Buskerud is as central as central technology in Bergen Engines. We have to be so honest here and say that we're probably totally dependent on both sales and purchases abroad to get economic growth. That being said, it is central here that the countries with which we trade central and important technologies – or use them together – must be countries with which we cooperate in security. That was the case earlier today, and there the government totally bombed. Now it's turned around. It's very nice, we hope it doesn't happen again. However, starting to interfere with the United Kingdom, Germany, the United States and all kinds of countries that are shy and that are not supposed to own anything — well, Norway must not invest in the United States either. Because the same rules must apply to all. That's why we actually have agreements to structure trade between countries, so that we all get the best out of it. It's also about resources, and how much you define them as central or not. We sell e.g. Our oil every day, and that is a strategically important resource, but nevertheless it brings well-being, growth and prosperity to Norway. We must be aware of that. The center part has taken a little too much Møller's tear now, and it has taken a little bit off. You have to be careful about what you do, both in terms of central resources and in terms of strategic industry and technology, but let's calm down a little bit. The defence sector is obviously central and important, and therefore the state has ownership of the Kongsberg Group, Nammo and other key businesses, simply because they are crucial to the functioning of the defence of our country. So it's like Russia and China are in a special class in countries to which we don't want to sell central resources, and I think you have to ask: will you sell strategic technology or resources to countries that won't allow us to do the same? If we had the opportunity to buy central Russian or Chinese technology, and get it on Norwegian hands, well, then we would be in a different situation. That will never happen, precisely because we have no safety cooperation with them, and simply because we have no ideological similarity with these countries, because we do not see them as close allies, and that they really do not belong in the Western community that we have acquired in Europe, in the United States and in other central countries. I think you should be a little more careful about the way you define both what resources and central resources are, and which countries you perceive as creepy, and with which you can't negotiate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1439	It is not very surprising to note that neither the Right Party nor the Advance Party take this challenge very seriously. I can inform the representative Tybring-Greed that the interpellation that we have to deal with today, I sent in before the Bergen Engines case became known. National ownership, national control of infrastructure, enterprises, natural resources and technology is something that occupies the centre party and was updated in the light of the PST threat assessment, which came on 8 February. This was also a topic we raised with the Prime Minister in the Question Time on 17 February, where the Prime Minister answered questions about the issue – even before the Bergen Engines case was known. That the Progress Party does not see the importance of national control — whether it is not Norwegian ownership, but that at least we have control that it is allied, and not foreign states that are threat actors against Norway, who own, for example. forest or land property — not very surprising, because the Progress Party has a completely different approach to the concession law. They want to remove the entire legislation that controls who can own both agricultural and other properties in Norway. In fact, the PST is clear that economic instruments can be used to influence Norway, as has traditionally been the case with intelligence operations. When it comes to data storage, it's not like the two attacks we've had against Stortinget are the only attacks. We're being attacked all the time, but fortunately not all of us are successful. But when it's clearly a threat to our democracy, I think it's special if the government doesn't see that there can be reason to discuss digital preparedness in the public, without it being about placing responsibility for this concrete attack. My question was that we have recently discussed in Stortinget whether we should investigate a public cloud solution to ensure better data storage, better security for our infrastructure, which is dependent on data solutions, and better security for people's information. The government has opposed this, but the government has to look at it anyway, because the Storting has overrun the government in that matter. It's because the Storting is concerned with digital readiness, that Norway has digital autonomy, that we don't rest everything on the market and large multinational companies that eventually become very powerful. It would have been very unthinkable if we were to send a carload of sensitive information out of the country for storage in the time of the papers. That is what we are doing in practice now, and it gives the Right's approval to when they do not want to improve the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1454	I think I have to be very clear. There must not be any impression that the government does not want a public conversation about digital security. So we have that in every way. We also now have unupgraded threat assessments provided by the NSM, the E-Service and the PST, where this is an important part. Mixing attacks on Stortinget with a case and a majority proposal related to cloud service seems to me to go far beyond borders. We're concerned with digital security. I understand that we are working well with Stortinget about, and I can assure you that this is very high on the government's agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1459	The debate on case No. 11 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1476	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1483	The tax agreement between Norway and Ghana which Stortinget is now ratifying was signed in Accra last November. The purpose of the tax agreement is to prevent tax evasion and avoid double taxation of income. These are the main pillars of the international BEPS cooperation. Norway has been actively involved for very many years in the work of the OECD and the G20 to prevent the eroding of the tax base and the transfer of profits and to contribute to the development of models of tax agreements that can ensure it. BEPS principles are now part of both OECD model agreements and UN model agreements. Norway now has less than 100 different tax agreements globally. The tax agreement with Ghana follows the UN model agreement between developed countries and developing countries, which takes into account more than the OECD model the need for developing countries to tax income in the country that is the source of income. Specific rules for the taxation of income from activities on the continental shelf differ in this case from the OECD pattern and are based on similar provisions in other tax agreements concluded by Norway. Finally, I would like to make a note of an error in the text until the end of the setting. The Committee's recommendation for a decision states that this tax agreement includes taxes on both income and wealth. The right thing is taxes on income – simply because Ghana does not offset taxes on wealth. As a result, there is no double taxation of wealth, and therefore the tax agreement does not include property taxes. This is just a follow-up error from the actual proposition on page 14 for the interested person and will be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1494	Ghana and Norway have negotiated a tax agreement aimed at preventing double taxation of investments and cross-border activities. The agreement will facilitate increased investment and activity between countries and can contribute to economic development and growth. This is positive, and in particular the petroleum industry has sought a tax agreement between Ghana and Norway. The purpose of the tax agreement is to prevent double taxation, but it must also counteract tax evasion. Another important objective is to facilitate taxation of revenue. The agreement also contains important provisions on non-discrimination, the exchange of information, assistance for tax calls, and contacts with authorities to resolve tax matters. These are key provisions to ensure taxation in line with the agreement. The tax agreement is largely based on the UN Model Tax Agreement between industrialised countries and developing countries. The United Nations pattern follows the same structure and has many common provisions with the OECD model agreement, but meets more closely the needs of developing countries. In particular, developing countries retain the right to tax income from source in the country. However, the tax agreement between Ghana and Norway provides a balanced distribution of taxation between countries and a stable and predictable tax framework in the years to come. As a result of the financial crisis, there has been increased attention to the transfer of profits and the eroding of tax bases. In particular, the OECD/G20, through the so-called BEPS project, has made a number of recommendations relating to tax agreements in order to counteract this. Some of these recommendations are minimum standards, while other recommendations are optional. The tax agreement with Ghana meets all the minimum standards for tax agreements, but also contains several of the so-called optional BEPS recommendations, thus providing strong protection against aggressive tax planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1505	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1522	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1529	This applies to a proposal for a better target for a green, smart and innovative Norway in line with the OECD Green Growth Indicator Set. The proposers want the OECD Green Growth Indicators to also be reported in each State budget. Today, Norway reports annually on these indicators to the OECD. There are about 150 indicators. These are available on the OECD website. The majority believe that this is a good report and that it is not appropriate that this should also be included in the State budget. Some indicators do, because the government reports at climate level. There will also be further reporting, which is part of the climate plan. We also have a report that we are making up against cooperation with the EU, and there is also reporting under the Paris Agreement to be developed in the years to come. The second proposal concerns the use of selected green growth indicators leading in the design of strategic targets for energy, environment and industrial policy, with a particular focus on carbon productivity, i.e. the relationship between gross domestic product and greenhouse gas emissions. The majority believe that we should have targets aimed more directly at emissions. Carbon productivity does not ensure a decline in greenhouse gas emissions. Carbon productivity can be increased while emissions for the country are still increasing, just as in the event of an economic downturn, carbon productivity can also be increased – neither does it say anything, necessarily, about economic growth. I assume that the proposers will argue for their views. The third proposal concerns a revenue-neutral tax model for green growth with a focus on tax advantages for businesses that improve carbon productivity. I also assume that the proposers will argue for this. The majority believe that we should focus, as we do today, on reducing emissions. We're going to reduce emissions by at least 50 pst. by 2030. Over the years, the government and the majority of the population have pursued a policy for a green tax shift in which we have a continuous CO 2 tax, while at the same time we have related tax havens for businesses and individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1543	The point of this proposal is to use tools that help us to see if we're on the right track, and at a rate that's enough to succeed in the green shift. Getting greenhouse gas emissions down fast enough, decoupling economic growth from emissions and resource use – that is what the Green Growth Indicators will help us with. Then environmental indicators in environmental status.no and what is presented in the State budget are not sufficient, as the Council of State and Government parties refer to. If we are to meet climate change and have a transformation, we also need to think more fully about climate policy. The focus on green growth is on the relationship between the economy, resources and emissions. Indicators focusing on jobs, value creation, taxes and rates of conversion are needed. This could be better illustrated in a green growth indicator rather than purely environmental indicators. Long-term and emerging challenges in the 21st century require long-term and new types of targets in order to meet both economic development and emission reductions at the same time. The intention of the proposal is to use the main indicators for green growth in the OECD material, not all, as the Council of State perceived in its response to the Committee. The OECD report shows that Norway is below the OECD average in terms of the development of two key indicators for green growth: improvement in carbon productivity and innovation with green innovations. It underlines the need for more targeted efforts in several of the indicator areas to achieve a faster decoupling of resource use and value creation. The carbon productivity indicator gives a good indication of the rate of conversion towards the green economy, taking into account the economic cycle. Using selected green growth indicators as a long-term management tool for the Norwegian economy as a leader in the design of strategic targets for energy, environment and industry policy could help us improve carbon productivity in the Norwegian economy. The OECD has developed a broader and internationally standardised green growth indicator set. Norway reports at this international level but does not use it nationally. It is strange that the work done by the public to produce these figures is not better used for the planned national evaluation and development of green growth also internally in Norway because the Minister of Finance does not find it, as he writes, ‘appropriate’. And we need economic growth – to get more jobs, increase exports and ensure the basis for the well-being of decades ahead of us. With this, I take up the suggestions Worker Party is behind in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1560	The representative Svein Roald Hansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1565	There are certainly many good intentions behind the proposals that have been promoted in this matter. I would like to make a few brief comments in response to why we in the Right and the rest of the majority do not support the three concrete proposals in the draft representative. Firstly, indicators are useful to show the scale of environmental challenges and how we are doing the work we are doing for green growth. For this reason, the government already has many such indicators in the budget documents and in relevant communications to the Storting. There are also 150 of those types of environmental indicators readily available on OECD websites and 83 indicators on the Environmental Status.no website. It is therefore difficult to consider the need for a change as proposed. So to the proposal to use carbon productivity in particular, which is currently one of the OECD's many green growth indicators, as a new governance tool for energy, environment and industrial policy. To that is to say, for the right, it's important that we cut the emissions, but not the evolution. Using the ratio of GDP to greenhouse gas emissions as a management tool rather than actual emissions is not considered to be appropriate. In fact, indicators can be improved even if emissions do not decrease, for example: by experiencing economic development while the emissions are at a standstill. We want both the development and the decline in emissions. There are two main objectives, and then we also need more instruments. Finally, the proceeds neutral tax model. The tax system is based on broad tax bases, low rates and non-discrimination. It shall stimulate efficient resource use and promote economic growth. Therefore, since 2013, the government of Solberg has implemented several climate and environmental tax changes that have contributed to economic growth while reducing Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. It is also gratifying to see that the government’s climate policy has worked and that emissions in Norway are falling. In these days, the climate plan is also addressed, a historic shift in Norwegian climate policy. The plan includes a tightening of the CO 2 tax in order to provide even greater incentives for rapid business conversion. It will give real green growth, as the proposers also want. At the same time, the Right balances the tax increases on greenhouse gas emissions with reductions in other taxes. And we will continue to ensure that the overall tax burden on both individuals and businesses in Norway goes down, because green policy should not give a red bottom line.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1581	You get what you measure. Long-term and new challenges in the 21st century require long-term and new types of targets in order to meet both economic development and emission reductions at the same time. The constructiveness of the OECD's choice of carbon productivity as the first and most important measure of green growth that they raise is that it helps to dampen the conflict between economic growth and increased fossil energy consumption. Instead, value creation and emissions are brought together in one integrated figure. The improvement in one or the other or preferably both factors will contribute to a much faster improvement in the indicator. So we can get out of the mindset of growth or protection, or a zero-sum game, and over into growth and protection, a plus-sum game, in the public vocabulary. That is precisely why we propose what the Council of State Sanner and the Committee do not agree with, that a sufficient increase in the indicator be defined as an objective in itself. It must then be lifted from an obscure existence in distant OECD databases and entered into the national budget in order to be used annually as a practical and central tool for the future annual work. In the proposal, therefore, we ask for an investigation into whether improved carbon productivity can give tax incentives to leading companies, i.e. a carrot, compensated by equivalent taxes on the companies that lag behind in the conversion, i.e. a whip. We believe that such a scheme could increase the rate of conversion in Norway and Norwegian business, which is often expressed by the government, but rarely followed up. Instead of going into such an inquiry, the government is now celebrating this because most taxes have a negative impact on value creation, thereby reducing carbon productivity. This is, of course, socio-economic ‘gobbelidocs’. The reason why we are asking for the identification of a revenue-neutral tax model for green growth is precisely that we want to see whether this targeted tax model can provide micro-economic incentives to accelerate an innovative transition to rapid green growth by rewarding companies and projects that are particularly offensive. Instead, the Government and the majority of the Committee reject this proposal before the investigation has been carried out on the basis of maximum general macroeconomic assumptions. But it's far from that, that reality follows theoretical assumptions. Let it be clear that the Green Party supports the increase in CO 2 tax by 2030 and supports the principle of a revenue-neutral green tax shift. The aim of this initiative was just to take this a good step forward. Norway has a strong need for accelerated conversion, but this unfortunately does not seem to help either the government or the majority, who think they are much smarter than the OECD.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1601	The President shall leave the audience to decide whether ‘gobbelidock’ is self-explanatory.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1606	SV will join the posts that have been held by the Workers' Party and the Greens' Greens' Party in this case. I want to add, in addition to the good points they made, that there is a little bit of a shame for the climate debate, when we face as great challenges as we do, that there is no greater curiosity about what types of instruments, what kind of goals we can set to achieve in this joint – largely, at least – desire to achieve climate targets by both 2030 and 2050 in a way that also takes care of and strengthens the Norwegian economy. What is the intention behind the proposals here is precisely to be able to combine the objectives of both climate change and change and economic growth. Then at least I think it's something inadequate to read the answers and hear the speeches from the majority parties here, which just refer to today's goal. We know they're inadequate. We know that both during the financial crisis and during the coronary apathy, greenhouse gas emissions have fallen. In isolation one would consider it positive, but at the same time there are good reasons to expect that the rate of change has also fallen in the last year, and that the growth of new technologies has not been achieved in new industries, which are really what ensures the long-term green transition. By putting these new objectives into place, these new ways of measuring carbon productivity in the economy, we have a better chance of following the pace of conversion in the Norwegian economy. I wish there was a greater curiosity about and willingness to do here in the hall, rather than just rejecting it and saying that we already have good numbers of CO 2 emissions and economic growth. Finally, it brings me to the tax system. Also there we have to be willing to think new. It's obviously right and important to have a high price of CO 2. We're going to keep doing that, and we're going to increase it. But that alone is no guarantee that we will succeed in transforming the economy quickly and efficiently. It alone is no guarantee that we are just increasing the rate of conversion in the Norwegian economy. So also being able to have a curiosity about how we can use the tax system to reward a conversion capacity in our industry and our business in a greener direction, just as we've done in other areas of research and development, I think it would be interesting. We're just going to see that this time it was too complicated to get to a majority here in this direction, but hopefully it's started a discussion that we're going to have to go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1623	Let me say that I think this is an interesting and important discussion of what objectives and what indicators we should use. It is a discussion that we in the Ministry of Finance – I kept saying – almost continuously. But at the end of the day, it must be the government and the ministry and the Council of State that decide which indicators to use in the national budget. Then we have a regular assessment of which indicators we are going to use for green growth, also in the case of OECD environmental indicators, but there is also an issue of appropriateness about which to use and how many to use. But let me just again stress that I think this is an interesting discussion. Both the representative Ola Elvestuen and others have raised the issue of carbon productivity. I believe that it is also an interesting indicator, both to compare with other countries and also over time. However, as has been pointed out, it also has some weaknesses in measuring emissions, and therefore the government uses other indicators in this context. The discussion that Svein Roald Hansen is drawing up, I think is perhaps the most interesting one. It is about how Norway can improve not only on what indicators we use in the national budget but how we can improve in green investment and innovation in green investment. There I believe we are well on the way to the tools we are using, namely that we are putting a lot on research and development. We make clear demands, we use tools like fees and quotas. We also have clear targets, and that means that investors know what direction it's going in. In the case of a revenue neutral tax model, I am pleased if the left-hand side is now in favour of a green tax exchange that should not involve a tax tightening. Then we're going a good step in the right direction. We also know very much about the taxes and taxes that promote economic growth and which counteract both labour productivity and the growth of the economy. So here I don't see the need to launch any major investigation. We have to do it, and the government does it. We ensure that we exchange green tax incentives with reliefs, among other things. the tax on income. It helps to promote the supply of work and the growth of the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1636	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1642	I am a bit familiar with the concept that the Council of State uses in its response to the Committee, namely ‘appropriate’. Why is it not appropriate to use these indicators, the most central ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1647	The concept of appropriateness is more about the scope. We have a good professional assessment of the indicators to be used. It's a continuous discussion. We also have good dialogue with the OECD and other trade unions about which indicator sets are the most appropriate. It could also change over time. We use some in the national budget; other indicators are in other bases that we use in the development of policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1652	It is nice to hear that the Council of State believes this is an important and central debate. I have a question. I am now also reading the last bits of the climate plan and the climate announcement. There is a long and large and complicated cloud of goal with the EU agreement, the government’s 45 pst. above that, the Paris Agreement and the relationship with 1990–2030 and 2005–2030, etc. If we had instead said that over 6 pst. carbon productivity improvement is what is needed to deliver all this, does it sound simpler or more complicated? The point is that then all economic units, whether they're cities, companies, sectors, counties or the whole country, could be measured on the same indicator and seen: are they helping to solve the Paris agreement, or are they part of the problem? If you're over 6 pst, it's part of the solution, it's less than 6 pst, it's going too slow. Then you could see it year after year, instead of running with airy, removing targets for 2050 and 2030 from a base year, which is very hard to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1659	For the government, the goals we have set for 2030 are not airy ones. These are quite concrete goals that we are working towards every single day. Once we have delivered a climate plan where we also sketch out a strong tightening of CO 2 taxes over time, it is only one of several tools we use to achieve the targets. Carbon productivity – which I was also involved in my post – may well be a tool and an indicator that is interesting to follow over time and compare with other countries, but it is, as I said, the Paris agreement we are ruling against. The goals we've set, we're going to be able to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1669	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox Case No. 14 and 15 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1702	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1709	First, I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation. This proposal proposes the inclusion of two EEA-relevant legislation in Norwegian law, more specifically in the Financial Corporations Act. This concerns the EEA Securities Regulation, with the addition of some additional national rules, and amendments to the EU Crisis Management Directive relating to credit hierarchy, i.e.: the priority to be given to different creditors in the event of an overdraft of a bank. For the latter, the Storting requests the agreement of the EEA Committee on the inclusion of the new creditor rules in the EEA Agreement. The purpose of the updated securitisation legislation is to ensure a sound framework for the conversion of bank loans into transferable securities. In addition to reducing the risks associated with such conversion, as was revealed in the context of the international financial crisis, good consumer protection is central to the complementary national legislation. As you know, Norway banned securitisation in 2016 pending a new and improved European legislation, which is now in place. It is important to note that complex packages which may increase risks in financial markets will continue to be prohibited. The Securities Regulation is expected to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement during the year and, when it does, the Storting will receive a consent request. By entering this into Norwegian law now, we ensure the earliest possible entry into force of the rules and that market players are given time to prepare. It is the Financial Supervisory Authority that has conducted the investigation work on which the proposition is based. The emphasis has been on the broad involvement of the financial industry, thus ensuring relevance and broad support in industry. Norwegian business will have a significant capital requirement in the future. Therefore, it is important to facilitate a capital market that can meet this need, as well as to provide Norwegian financial actors with a level playing field with the rest of the EU markets. From the financial industry, concerns are expressed that current solutions with fees for asset disclosures in the Solver Register will prevent the implementation of securitisation. However, a process has been initiated to establish a mass illumination charging solution in the Solver Register. It is important that the work on mass lighting and the related fee solution is carried out in parallel with the implementation of the securitisation regulation in Norwegian law, so that the material disclosure issue does not become a delaying element in the implementation of the legislative changes. This can certainly be confirmed by the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1728	The case rapporteur has explained the content of the setting well, so only a few moments from my side. The most important thing in this case is that it provides a new and better regulation on securitisation. There has been an instrument that has had too bad legislation in the past, such as: led to an irresponsible and disguised lending activity in the United States, thus contributing to the financial crisis in 2008. Our own rules were repealed in 2016, because they were not considered to be good enough either. An important part of the new legislation therefore consists of rules which reduce the risk of misuse and which are intended to provide a much more sound use of this instrument. Now the proposition points out that this is a tool that will hardly matter to us, because we used the experience of the banking crisis in the 1990s to develop a solid financial industry and good control through enhanced financial supervision. This new legislation has been introduced into the EU from 1 January 2019. It is part of the comprehensive regulatory framework developed in the EU countries following the financial crisis to strengthen financial institutions, and not least to strengthen regulation, risk management and control. The latter is, of course, the most important element in this new regulation on securitisation. Although this is a tool that is hardly used to a large extent in Norway, it is nevertheless important that Norwegian banks have the same opportunity as non-residents. Few industries face such international competition as the financial industry. It is an instrument that helps to increase the lending capacity of banks. And even though Norwegian banks have reasonably good lending capacity, we are facing a reconstruction after the pandemic and a green shift that will require new investments. In that case, the lending capacity should not be a bottleneck.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1741	It is particularly important to have a well-functioning and strictly regulated capital market, for both people and businesses throughout Norway. What you have to question about when to go in and deal with a case like this is why you have to make such changes in Norwegian law – what is needed, and what are the major challenges associated with it. I sincerely wonder if it is that the Storting had come to make such a change if it was on an independent basis, if it was not because there is now a regulation from the EU that the majority sees need to implement. I must say that after hearing the representative Hansen just before here, I am a little worried. Norwegian banks are solid and have good lending capacity, both to people and businesses – we agree there – but if it is that securitisation should be used as a strategy in the construction phase after the crisis and the pandemic we are now facing, then I am really concerned about what kind of strategy the Workers' Party is looking for in the future, when a person knows what kind of challenges securitisation can have. After all, securitisation was part of the triggering factor in the financial crisis in the United States. So in this case, it is referred to that there are a number of risk mitigation measures. Yeah, that's right, that's what the legislation is primarily about. But then you have to ask yourself the basic question: is this a regulation that we need in Norway, or should we say that we should not have an opening for securitisation in Norway? That's what's the basic starting point, and especially in a situation where you have high debt growth, you have high housing price growth, and you're inside a pandemic with great uncertainty for both people and businesses. Is this what we're going to put on the table as part of the strategy for the future? We believe that it would have been much better to think carefully about and have had a more thorough treatment, and at least before including an EU regulation in Norwegian law that needs to be implemented word by word in Norwegian law. We think it's unwise. We believe that this proposal should not have been promoted by the government, and I must say that I am surprised at the Labour Party, that they are choosing such an approach to this matter. It is possible that this is because the three letters ‘EEA’ are attached to it. I had hoped that one could have an independent assessment of what kind of regulation is important in order to ensure a well-functioning but also strictly regulated capital market for the future in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1752	I do not understand the background because we are dealing with this matter today. And it really doesn't come out very well of the proposition either, it says on the contrary that the credit market works well, and that in that way there is no need to allow securitisation in Norway. But it is obvious that there has been a pressure from the financial industry, from the NHO, to get this law through. I must express both surprise and disappointment at the fact that the Labour Party is involved. There is reason to recall that securitisation was the triggering factor behind the financial crisis. It is clear, as I was aware, that there is no need for it in Norway, we have a well-functioning credit market, and that will increase the systemic risk in Norwegian financial markets at a time when we are in the most serious economic downturn since World War II. And then it's completely incomprehensible to me why this is being dragged through – by out-of-date practice – in the Stortinget. So here we are going to make a legislative decision without any draft decision in the EEA Committee. That in itself is incredibly unusual. It is a combined legislative and consent proposal, but only parts of the legislation are draft consent decisions. While the proposition and the majority comments clearly indicate that this is the implementation of EEA legislation, it also implies that it would be impracticable in practice to make specific adaptations to the EEA Decision itself. Then the law has to be processed again. So I can't see the actual reason why we couldn't have taken better time, which the Center Party has also been involved in, dealing with this more thoroughly. If there has been a strong pressure from industry to put this in place, it is to the extent that one listens to the financial industry, but that does not explain the entirely unorthodox way of doing this in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1761	I have not really seen any need to take the floor in this matter, because what we are dealing with and will adopt today is a natural follow-up to what we have dealt with and adopted in the past. But the two previous speakers begged me to say a few words on the occasion of the case. Securitisation was stopped in Norway in 2016. The reason for its suspension was precisely pending the adoption of common European rules. The legislation in force at that time was not sufficient, and it was a desire to have a common regulatory framework that would apply to the whole of Europe. We have now received that, and that legislation was introduced on 1 January 2019. This means that for Norwegian financial market actors it is not very urgent to gain access to securitisation, very important to be part of the legislation applicable to Europe elsewhere. At the time this was stopped in Norway in 2016, there was mainly one actor that made full use of securitisation. This is probably not going to be very widespread in Norway, but we need a regulatory framework, and we need a common regulatory framework with Europe elsewhere. That is quite right when referring to what triggered the financial crisis in the United States — the use of securitisation was unrelenting, among other things. But it was not what triggered the financial crisis in Europe, for in Europe it has been used to a very small extent. But what was behind what happened in the United States was just a lack of legislation. Now we're going to have a code that's satisfactory, at least in the opinion of the Advance Party. We are also pleased that the Financial Supervisory Authority is going to be the supervisory authority, and we are asking the government to follow closely if this should take away more than there is reason to believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1772	I should also say a few words, because I think the posts from both the centre party and SV seemed very alarming. It is, as is also stated in the case, broad support for the broad lines of the proposal, and it is an amendment to the regulation requested by the Norwegian financial industry. As Limi also says, it is a securitisation regulation that has worked in the EU from 1 January 2019. And it is true that the history of the United States has been a contributing cause of the financial crisis that we had, but I also think it is important that we are for this, because it is as it says in the vote, ‘a priority action in the European Union because it can contribute to increased lending capacity, especially in countries where the banking system was severely weakened following the international financial crisis’. I see this as a natural part of the cooperation we have with the EU, as a natural part of EEA cooperation. There will always be a development of a regulatory framework to embrace all countries in cooperation. Then it will always be that something will be more or less relevant to us, but also in this case the benefits for Europe as a whole, and for countries with a banking system that has been seriously weakened, are much greater than the disadvantage it might have been here. And, as the setting also says, it will hardly matter in Norway. For me and for the Left, this is a natural part of the cooperation we have great advantages of, and we have a strong self-interest in having close cooperation with the EU. There is no reason to go away from it in this matter. The criticism I hear from the Centre Party and the SV also reminds me more of the general disagreement about the EEA Agreement and the cooperation with the EU – more than that you are very concerned about this particular matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1781	The proposal under consideration today by Stortinget involves the implementation in Norwegian law of two EU legislation, the securitisation regulation and the credit hierarchy directive. The proposal for securitisation is based on investigative work carried out by the Financial Supervisory Authority in which Norway’s Bank and the Ministry of Finance have also participated. The consultation has provided broad support for the broad lines of the proposal. The securitisation regulation has not yet been incorporated into the EEA Agreement but is expected to be incorporated into 2021. However, in order to facilitate the prompt entry into force of the rules and to allow market participants time to prepare, the Government shall promote proposals for the implementation of the Regulation. The Government will return to Stortinget as soon as possible and request consent to the inclusion of the Regulation in the EEA. Norwegian rules implementing the Regulation may then be brought into force. The last thing I would like to stress, since there has been a small debate here as well on the procedure in this matter. Although the Storting now adopts the necessary legislative changes, these will not be implemented until the Storting has given its consent to the incorporation of the securitisation regulation. The credit hierarchy directive has already been incorporated into the EEA Agreement, and I am asking in the proposal for the Storting consent to inclusion. Securitisation involves the conversion of bank loans into transferable securities. The aim of EU legislation is to contribute to a more diversified financial system, including: to enable small enterprises to obtain indirect access to the securities market. Many of the rules intend to limit risks. The Government has paid particular attention to supplementing rules aimed at ensuring good consumer protection. The rules on credit hierarchy relate to the priority to be given to the various creditors when the bank is over. Harmonisation of these rules helps to ensure predictability for creditors and to facilitate crisis management. The securitisation bill shall contribute to more flexibility in the financial system within a sound framework. The rules give Norwegian banks the same opportunities as banks elsewhere in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1794	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1799	After this debate so far, and also after the intervention of the Council of State, the question of why it is so vital to implement this legislation remains, and as soon as a decision is also proposed in the Grand Duchy. Now the Council of State just said that one should not implement the decision of the Storting before the consent proposal has also been discussed, but why do you not wait then and take it together, and allow more time? And when we are in a major national pandemic, with great consequences also for the financial side, why does one not then make sure to have a more sound treatment, weighs benefits and disadvantages against each other and receives an overall treatment, including the consent proposition being treated at the same time?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1805	Responsible treatment? This is therefore an investigation carried out by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, with Norway’s Bank and the Ministry of Finance as participants. There has been a broad consultation. The representative says you need more time. No, we don't need any more time. We believe that the matter has been resolved. We believe that it is a strength that we have common European rules in this area, and that is one area where we really need common rules, that is within the financial market. I believe that, in today's crisis, we should be pleased that the EU has taken action in financial market policy, that there are increasing demands, that supervisory bodies have been put in place, and that rules are also being developed to balance risks and opportunities. We believe that there is a sensible approach that we are now taking, and that also helps Norwegian actors to adapt to the legislation until the Storting has had the final treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1812	This is not about what kind of legislation the EU should have. It's the EU that decides. What we are going to decide is whether it serves Norway's interests to be part of that legislation, whether it will contribute to a tighter and better regulation of the Norwegian financial market. Some speakers here — and the Minister of Finance was a little concerned about it himself — have given the impression that securitisation is not really so relevant in Norway, that it is not going to be used to any particular extent. But why should an open up to securitisation when one sees the major consequences it has had in other countries, and when one also knows about the instability pointed out in parts of the Norwegian financial market? Why should an open up for that? Does the Minister of Finance realize that this will be used in particular, and what does he think it will lead to in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1817	In this case, it is really possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. I am in favour of a common European framework within the financial market, and I believe it serves Norway and Norwegian interests. We also make special demands, and in addition, the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority has a very special role to play and is responsible for the Norwegian system. But here we are also part of a global financial market, and the fact that the EU has taken action, made demands and has good oversight arrangements, it serves European interests, and it serves Norwegian interests. We make our own assessments, and we believe that it is right here to move forward at the pace we have done, so that we also provide the opportunity for Norwegian actors to adapt – until the Storting has made its final assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1824	I do not believe anyone here in this Chamber is concerned that the Right and the Minister of Finance want as much common legislation as possible with the European Union. However, the answers given by the Minister of Finance to the representative, Gülsvik, are not very clear as to what is the reason why we differ from previous practices, that we go beyond what we use to do – that there is a proposition first, and then we can make legislative decisions. Here's the opposite, but there's no good explanation why you do it, and my question to the Minister of Finance is, what's the reason for that, and is this the new order and practice that this government is going to put on?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1829	It must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. However, we believe that the matter is well settled. It is the Financial Supervisory Authority that has been sitting in the driver’s seat. Norway’s Bank and the Ministry of Finance have participated, and there is a majority in the UK that agrees with both the government’s assessments and that we can now adopt this pending the final decision with which we come back to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1834	It's true that it's a majority, but as a minority, I reserve the right to point out that it's very extraordinary, what's happening here. To a question of consumer protection. What's in the proposition is that the customer can only give passive consent to his or her loans being securitised. It has been pointed out from several sources, including: from the Consumer Council, that this should be an active consent, that you actively consent to your loan being securitised. What is the background for having ended up not being active, but passive, consent? Can't you see here that you're in the process of weakening consumer rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1843	Here I support the technical advice given by both the Financial Supervisory Authority and the other professional authorities, who believe that this is sufficient. I also believe it is important that it is the Financial Supervisory Authority that supervises this area. I can also assure the representative, Mr Kaski, that we are going to follow closely, both in the development of this area and how it is being practised.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1848	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1853	I have to say, it is quite difficult to grasp what the majority here really sees as important to implement this legislation. Is it, for example, as the representative Limi pointed out, that securitisation is not going to be a relevant topic in Norway, it is only because we are going to have a common regulatory framework with the EU that we are going to do it? Similarly, the representative of Elvesuen says that in solidarity with the EU, we should implement the same legislation as that of the EU country. We in Norway have to make an independent assessment of whether it serves Norwegian interests to implement this legislation or not. There is clear experience of the consequences of securitisation, not least in the United States, where it was not just a contributing but a trigger for the financial crisis. When one presented this legislation and the proposal from the Ministry of Finance, one acknowledged, first, that one had solid banks in Norway with good lending capacity but, secondly, that this legislation would increase complexity. The question then arises: in Norway, there is a situation of both high debt growth and high housing price growth. Nor can the consumer give an active consent to whether or not the loan is securitised, as the representative Kaski also pointed out in relation to how one has aligned the follow-up to the legislation. There are a number of issues here, and so does one implement it in a way where we are now going to take a decision on this matter here without there being an consent proposition? It is a very unusual and very unwise procedure. In the end, to the representative of Elvesuen, who says that this is because of a general opposition to the EEA Agreement by the Central Party: Well, the Central Party is for us to have better agreements with the EU than the EEA Agreement, agreements that ensure both better market access than today and better conditions for our democracy, but we take an independent assessment of a single directive. Many directives are going through the Great Britain without debate at all, but we are looking at their content, and this is a piece of legislation that is good reason to look carefully through and have critical comments on. Unfortunately, the majority of population do the same once again in the case of the EU directive: it sweeps through and only slips over the major problematic aspects associated with it. It's profoundly problematic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1864	I almost seem to notice some sort of irritation here from the majority that the centre party and SV are asking questions about this matter. With respect to reporting: The majority of people doing this are opening up to the same products in Norway as the triggering factor for the financial crisis in 2008. It actually requires good treatment, a lot of discussion and good reasons. I have trouble getting the reasons here. As the representative Gülsvik says, they are at least the most varied by who speaks. So if there is only a reference to the need for a common regulatory framework with Europe and with the EU, it is worth remembering that what we are doing here now is a tightening up in the EU, but a liberalisation in Norway. We have good practice in Norway in order to have stricter rules on financial regulation and credit regulation than we have in the EU, because of the animal-acquired experience we have gained here in Norway. Then there are at least good reasons to read in detail in the proposition what is the background to that liberalisation, but there are no good answers to that in the proposition either. It is mentioned, among other things: better credit offers, but at the same time it is pointed out that the credit offer is already very good in Norway. It is also noted that high debt and debt growth are already a risk to the Norwegian economy. The question is: why, on what basis and on what basis should we increase that risk in Norway, while at the same time in a situation where housing prices and debt growth are enormous? So when the only answer is that some countries in Europe do not have such good capital markets, and therefore there will be great advantages in opening up this, as the representative of Elvesuen says, there is no good reason why we in Norway are going to liberalise our legislation in this area. With regard to whether this is a general disagreement about the EEA Agreement, it is tempting to put the question back, for the majority here appears more to be so in favour of the EEA Agreement that it is not possible to see what is the content of what is being presented here, and at least to justify it on the basis of factual arguments relating to the substance of the matter, rather than that it is important that we have a common regulatory framework with the EU – and so on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1875	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 14 and 15. Case No. 16 and 17 are treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1907	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1914	This approach involves changes to the Securities Trading Act and the Accounting Act and concludes work to ensure that Norwegian provisions comply with the rules of the Accounting Directive of 2013 and the Reporting Directive of 2014. The Reporting Directive was mainly implemented in the past, in 2017, but some adjustments remain in the Securities Trading Act. The changes increase market transparency. The rules provide for minimum financial information contained in annual and half-yearly reports, minimum disclosure requirements for changes in the ownership of the issuer company and provisions on investor’s flag obligation. The amendments will harmonise the requirements on the disclosure and publication of information to issuers and holders of transferable securities admitted to trading on a regulated market. The amendments involve some fully harmonised rules. So the possibility of giving stricter rules in each country is being reduced. Elimination of quarterly reporting requirements. It is considered unnecessary, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, for frequent reporting can also contribute to short-term operational performance. However, the possibility of providing rules on quarterly reporting for financial institutions is proposed to be maintained, as supported by the Committee. Provision is also made for home and host state regulations and regulatory homes in order to implement notified EU rules on the establishment of a single European access point for the national storage mechanisms for information mandatory. It seems complicated, but the point is to give investors across the EEA area easy access to the same information. The so-called ‘Amendment Directive’ also lays down rules on country-by-country reporting for undertakings in the extractive industries – rules that have already been largely implemented in Norwegian law from 2017. There is still something in the Accounting Act, including: strengthening the requirements for the presentation of social responsibility by large companies in the annual report. The extent of information necessary for the understanding of the enterprise's activities is intensified as regards environmental, social, work environment, equality, respect for human rights, the fight against corruption and bribery. These are similar requirements for reporting in the Equality and Discrimination Act § 26a. The Committee therefore takes the view that the requirements of both laws can be met by making the information available in a single publicly available document, with references to it in the annual report. In the S-position, consent is given to the inclusion of the two Directives concerned in the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1935	As everyone has come along, this is not the most controversial issue we have for treatment today, but it is important enough. On the right, the Committee endorses the recommendations – also IV. It's probably not the most controversial, but it's an important change that's going to happen here. There will be better reporting, and it will be more transparent for the public. As the case spokesperson was about and did well in his post, this gives more transparency, transparency and harmonisation between the various companies, and at least I think it is very important that trust in securities laws and accounting laws is maintained. We depend on that, which the Minister of Finance was also involved in the previous case. That trust is fundamental to all of us. Some of the changes are exacerbating, and some are also easy – especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. We like that in the Right good and hope there's more of it coming. Nevertheless, there is something that gives extra sharper demands, but there are no unreasonable demands, and there is nothing over time that would be more bureaucratic or a heavy burden on businesses. We join the recommendation as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1946	I will not use the powder in this case as much as in the previous one, but I will nevertheless show that there are also some of the same issues related to treatment as in the previous case – namely that there are proposals for changes to the Securities Trading Act before a consent proposal has been made. That's why we're going to go against this right now. We definitely also see that there are positive aspects to a part of the matter, but we believe that it is not right to deal with it at the present time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1951	For the sake of order, SV would also stress that in this case the content is much less controversial than that of the proposition relating to securitisation. We would probably have supported many of the proposals that lie here, if they had been dealt with in an ordinary way, in an ordinary order. Nor do we see any reason here to change the practice and practice of the Storting in dealing with these kinds of cases. We believe, on the contrary, that it is a great pity that it is practiced in this way by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1958	In this proposition, the Government promotes proposals for amendments to the Securities Trading Act and the Accounting Act. The consent of the Storting is also requested for the approval of EEA Committee decisions incorporating two accounting directives into Norwegian law. The proposals for amendments to the Securities Trading Act have a background to changes to the Reporting Directive. The Reporting Directive harmonises the requirements for disclosures to be made to the public by the issuer and the holder of transferable securities admitted to trading on a regulated market. The aim of the rules is to increase market transparency. It is proposed, inter alia: changes in the rules on the frequency of periodic reporting. As a result of the removal of the Directive requirement, the general possibility for national authorities to provide rules on quarterly reporting. This includes, inter alia: justified by the fact that quarterly reporting appears unnecessary, in particular for small and medium-sized companies. To the minority's comment in the committee position, I can state that the government will return to Stortinget with a proposal for up-to-date rules on the flagging of ownership positions in listed companies and a request for the consent of Storting to the approval of the EEA Committee's decision to include the amending Directive in the reporting Directive into the EEA Agreement. The proposal also contains proposals for some amendments to the Accounting Act, which are necessary for the implementation of two Accounting Directives in Norwegian law — the Consolidated Accounting Directive and the amending Directive on the publication of non-financial information by certain large undertakings and groups. While the Directive requirement on the publication of non-financial information by large undertakings has been largely implemented in Norwegian law in the past, some adjustments are needed in the Accounting Act to ensure that Norwegian law fully complies with the requirements of the Directive. In order to implement these Directive requirements, the Government therefore proposes certain amendments to, inter alia, the Directive. the rules on requirements for disclosure of corporate social and corporate responsibilities by large undertakings. The Government also asks, as I have already mentioned, for the consent of the Storting to the approval of decisions of the EEA Committee No. 293/2015 and 39/2016, which incorporate the two Accounting Directives into the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1973	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 16 and 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1990	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e1997	I would like to start by thanking the members of the Committee for their cooperation in the preparation of the vote, and I assume that the minority presents its views and proposals in its own way. It is worth noting and drawing out two relationships that have emerged since the setting was released. One is new SSB projections, which show that the learning shortage is not as demanding as previously assumed. This is due, inter alia, to: a reduction in the number of children's children, but as the SSB draws up, there has also been a positive increase in the number of persons applying for and qualified to start teacher training, as well as in the proportion completing it. The second is new numbers that show a jump of 7 pst. in the proportion that conducts the teacher’s study in the normal time. It's good news all the time that it's not just the number of applicants, but the number that implements, that matters to our access to skilled teachers in the future. In the letter of reply from the Minister of Knowledge of the United Kingdom, the Government can explain that a number of the proposals contained in the proposal for a representative have been either implemented or are being implemented. For the government parties and the Progress Party, this is well known in a matter that we have followed closely over many years and that has been the subject of an ongoing debate. It is therefore worth pointing out that the draft representative does not bring anything new. The proposals which cannot be supported by the government parties and the Progress Party are largely not supported because they want to lower the ambitions for teacher training and for the school. Furthermore, it is worth noting that in other contexts the Centre Party has called for the reversal of the introduction of master education for teachers, and together with red-green parties that call for Norway to be notified out of PISA and to pass national tests, it draws a picture of a left-hand side that will lower both the knowledge of the school and the knowledge of the school. I think that more parents should notice on the way into a big choice. At all times, the time is not right to lower the ambitions of our students. At a time when the arrows point in the right direction and the results show that today's policy is working, the answer should be clear to more than just the government parties and the Progress Party. What we need now is a strengthening of the policy and direction we've started. So we don't need a new teacher's lift. We're in the middle of a big teacher's lift, and the results show that we're successful. We don't need less knowledge; we need more knowledge in the way we go. Transparency about key numbers is a natural next step, as we see on kindergarten monitor.no. We should also be able to imagine that for School-Norway. But the red-green parts say no. The representative Knutsdatter Strand called it in a word exchange with the undersigned for another counter edge from the right. So wrong she can take. This is about knowledge and focusing on common challenges, because that's how we can raise the school, and that's how we've done so far. More and more people are completing secondary education and getting a place to learn. More and more people are leaving primary school with better basic skills in reading, writing and billing. Never before have so many teachers been trained as they are now, and the school is getting more and more teachers with good professional immersion in its teaching. Although it is mathematics, English and Norwegian that have been in focus, more further education is now received annually in the practical-esthetic subjects than in some further-educated teachers each year before the government change in 2013. Now there is also room to give more applicants with good professional immersion the opportunity to refill, such as lecturers who want to fill in the way. The search and the number qualified for the start of teacher training have now ranged from 4000 to 6,000 students, even though the admission requirements are tightened, compared to before the government change. And as mentioned earlier, implementation has been greatly improved. That's what results are. At the same time, the commitment to professional immersion and more teachers have also given a boost. Before we talked about more teachers. So far since the government change, there have been 6,300 more teachers in primary school, of which 5,000 in primary and middle school, and the draft shows that we have better access to teachers. This could help to reduce the proportion of unskilled people more easily. This also makes it possible to impose stricter requirements on the organisation of temporary employment positions, so that more can be published in full positions and preferably in fixed positions through temporary work pools etc. This will be followed up in the further work of the Training Act. Major efforts on school health services, new bullying laws, bullying agents, early intervention and special pedagogical skills are additional measures that build around the student and promise the individual. In total, this is really about high ambitions for a better school — a school where more children are met early, where we can quickly give mastery feeling, where we can build up under the learning joy of the individual child. In the right we have high ambitions for Norwegian school and each child.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2031	It's starting to become a kind of annual tradition for this big business and this educational committee to discuss the increasing teaching shortage and the teacher crisis in the hall here. Even I think it's this debate that's the highlight of that tradition, and it peaks when Right-wing representatives, as we just saw here, take on their ideological skyscrapers and believe that the only solution to the growing teacher crisis is to continue just as before – skyscrapering as a shadow of the realities of school, which is an increasing teaching shortage, a falling recruitment. It's not to hide how serious it is that last year there was a total decline of almost 9 pst. in the primary school teacher training application, GLU, 1-7 and 5-10, and under this government there has been a double in the proportion of unqualified teachers teaching in Norwegian classrooms. This government, which talks so much about how important teachers are, has opened the back door to all Norwegian unqualified classrooms. This year's spice in this debate is perhaps the fresh numbers from the SSB. When you listen to the government, both in this room, in the media and in debates, it sounds like the problem has now been solved. I think the numbers from the SSB can't be described as anything but a very small fig leaf that the government is now hiding behind. The large changes in figures are justified by low birth rates and record low migration. If a person turns around a little – if we get out of this crisis, as it seems the government is actively working for, and the Norwegian population is following the call of the Prime Minister from the Right, the birth figures are changing and the development is turning around, then we're going back to the beginning. But if we go in and look at the numbers more closely, we also see that the SSB assumes that one should continue the proportion and the number without approved teacher training in both primary and secondary schools, together almost 21,000 teachers. So if we take the entire surplus that one here a little bit theoretically talks about, in 2040, and substitute it against these unqualified, is a just halfway in solving that challenge. In the case of kindergartens, the picture is much the same. The number of kindergarten teachers assigned by the SSB shall remain low; it shall remain silent. I think that's a little ambitious. And one continues in the figures the exception that one can add to the derogation people without education in kindergarten classes. So once again, the SSB numbers this year are a tiny fig leaf to hide behind. The goal here should be to solve the teacher's crisis, and one should have greater ambitions for Norwegian school and kindergarten. I think it's a shame that the right parties use this as an excuse for what we're saying is to blow off the teacher's crisis, when they actually have an opportunity to put in place both greater teacher's density and better staffing in kindergarten. The right-wing parties therefore vote against all the proposals of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV today, including the retroactive separation, to achieve a more targeted and more accurate requirement for teacher training and to remove the rigid old-fashioned four-time requirement in mathematics introduced by the government. There are also proposals such as mobilising the reserve and regulatory guidance system. It turns out, I think, in this debate, a clearer and clearer distinction between the red-green parties and the right parties in terms of school and kindergarten policy. What's underlying here is not a difference in ambition, which the Right is trying to make it all about, but a different view of knowledge and different ways to and ambitions to be able to solve the growing teaching shortage, which just gets bigger. It seems like there needs to be a choice to get some concrete solutions. It's a shame that once again in Stortinget we have a debate, but without taking a bigger hold, which could have reversed development, and which allowed us to wait until the harvest to reverse this course. Unfortunately, you must wait until after the choice. With this, I will address the proposals that the Workers' Party is promoting together with the SV and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2052	Then the representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2057	The first thing we have to say today is that there is a real teacher's lift. Teachers have a more demanding working situation than ever. Then the government parties can't beat themselves on the chest and say that everything is going well – it's born fewer children than before. The centre party has for several years wanted a big message about recruiting teachers to clean up. Unfortunately, we do not get a majority for our proposals today either. We have argued well for them both in the proposal for a representative and in the vote, so I now want to raise a few points that deserve extra attention in the debate. First of all, it's hair-tracing that the government cancels the teacher's lack in the press release on the SSB's drafts. The question is, how many new qualified teachers will the government ensure in school? It is cool that the government parties declare victory for the teachers by promoting comments on the temporary employment scheme, but vote on proposals to ensure the recruitment of qualified teachers in permanent employment. And if the majority in Stortinget have a burning commitment to temporary workers, they should vote with us to ensure that the teaching is carried out by qualified personnel – for proposal No. 12, which asks the government to facilitate more teacher and lecturer students to take temporary courses in school. The involvement of vocational trainers could also be more complete by supporting proposal No. 16, to strengthen decentralised higher education, including post-secondary schools. Here we include hospitation in working life, which will improve teaching both for teachers and students in the professional field. Businesses may also contribute to the up-to-date status of masters or tradesmen in the workplace. Furthermore, we have the guidance of newly-trained, newly-trained teachers. Friday news came that more and more of these, in kindergarten and school, are receiving guidance. In addition, the recent report from the Education Directorate points out that the guidance contributes positively to the fresh teachers by making those who receive guidance more positive to their first year of learning and more motivated to become in the profession. More people think they still want to work as teachers five years later than those who have not received guidance. When the 2020 figures also show that seven out of ten new entrants in high school, nine out of ten in primary school and eight out of ten in kindergarten receive guidance, soon the only thing missing is that the government will enforce it. It would also help to address the problems identified by the fresh report, namely that some do not know about the offer or do not find time in their everyday lives. But the government parties are voting down our proposal. Of other good proposals we are promoting today, it is worth mentioning both recruitment measures, a more knowledge-based approach to admission to teacher training than today's four requirements, and a stop to the separation of thousands of teachers. Measures aimed at the reserve and the seniors will also be crucial in the future. There is little of what is happening in and around kindergartens and schools today, which makes it more lucrative to stand longer in the profession. In addition to our concrete proposals and the desire for a big message for recruiting teachers, we are fully open to the fact that this area needs more knowledge and research. We also need to evaluate the impact of policies that have been introduced in the past. The centre party was critical to five years of teacher training. An important part of this criticism was that teacher training had changed dramatically just before the government put it in place. Getting an elementary school teacher training of 1–7 and 5–10, we were never able to assess the consequences of it on our own, compared with previous education. We need to assess the impact of five-year teacher training now. Then it is obvious that there must be a commitment to continuing education in the future. Lifelong learning must mean that teachers can both update and return to the teaching profession from other jobs. Skills such as the labour market and increased input into practical and active teaching are also important in motivating pupils and preventing them from falling away. Finally, I have to correct a serious error in the setting, which means that I wonder if the government parties and the Progress Party would take some extra study credits into account. They claim that the Senter Party budgeted about 300 million. kr less than the government in the years 2015 to 2018. That is wrong – for further education we added in 2015, moved funds for recruitment in 2016, unchanged in 2017, and added again in 2018. In any case, today's debate will help recruit more teachers. I think those who dream of being superhero, turn off fires or save lives, a little too often choose occupations other than the teaching profession, although that's exactly where we need them. I hope more people with a dream of being superhero become teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2082	Should all children learn, succeed and thrive, is one of the prerequisites that they meet a qualified teacher in the classroom. Unfortunately, this is not the case today. The widespread use of non-teaching staff is dramatic. The use of unqualified in teaching positions has been increasing in the last ten years. Statistics Central Bureau has previously published figures showing that 15 pst. by primary school teachers and 21 pst. by the secondary teachers are without approved teacher training. The worst thing is that every other child who is entitled to special education receives it from an unskilled — those kids who need a pedagogue the most, the most. It's completely incomprehensible to me that the government parties and the Progress Party are beating their breasts on this case when there are thousands of students who go to school every day without a proper teacher to teach, it's just people who are employed in teaching positions. Many of them come straight from high school. The teacher's lack is a fact. It's extremely frustrating to sit and look at a government that sticks its head in the sand and refuses that the teaching shortage is a problem. The students tap on the fact that Erna Solberg's government does not take seriously the teaching shortage in Norway. The government's and Right's symbolism policies in terms of the fourth requirement in mathematics and the separation of thousands of Norwegian teachers have made the problem bigger and bigger for every day with the bourgeois government. I am particularly concerned about the ability of the district councils to obtain qualified teachers. It is very critical for the districts and a demographic problem for our country. There's some uncertainty about the future, but when you make a calculation, all the numbers have to be involved. If you have a surplus of 6,000 teachers in 2030, these can only replace a small part of all the years with unskilled teachers we have today. So you have to have the whole math when you send out press releases to the whole country. Norwegian school is inside what I'd call extreme sports, not just extreme sports, but an extreme sport year. Right now teachers and school leaders are overworked and underpaid. Teachers have not been paid overtime at a time when they have worked night and day. It's quite a crisis in many places. It's hard to stand in this, and of course it dries on the motivation. We have to carry every teacher and every school principal in a gold chair and make sure that we do everything we can to make sure that they don't opt out of school. For the lack of teachers, many students get less training than they could and should have. It happens today, it happens tomorrow, and it happens next year. Education is the cornerstone of our society. We need to take seriously the teaching shortage in Norway, in order not to be taught by a qualified teacher has great consequences for those involved. That's why we're going to have a change of pace in our work against the teaching shortage in school. That is what the red-green parties have proposed today. I am extremely pleased that the Center Party, the Workers' Party and the SV are united in this matter, because that means that we are assured of a completely different focus on the teaching shortage in Norwegian school than today's government has managed to cough up, when we get a new government in half a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2101	The left has invested in the school and prioritised the teachers for the last eight years. That's what results are. New SSB numbers show that there can be a surplus of teachers up to 2040. That means that several kids will meet qualified teachers in the classroom, which in turn will lead to equal opportunities and greater freedom for each one. It is good that the opposition parties are also concerned with recruiting teachers, but much of their concern is based on previous reports from the SSB, which produced a large deficit of teachers. Now the new figures show that more people are applying for teacher training and that more are completing it. This shows that the policies of the Left and the Government are working. The new projection believes that we can get a profit from all kinds of teachers at national level if developments continue as they are now. In addition, it is estimated for the first time that we have a surplus of primary school teachers and a particularly large surplus of kindergarten teachers. It's not just about the birth rate falling. It's about more people becoming teachers, and more people completing their education. This is good news for everyone going to school and kindergarten in the years to come. In today’s specialised knowledge society, completion of school has never been more important. Education is the best way to give young people a better life than their parents and also social mobility – or greater freedom and more opportunities, to which it can also be translated. We have to get more people through school. Research shows that a good teacher is the most important thing for children to learn and thrive at school. This is why the Left has been investing in teachers in government and budgetary negotiations for the last eight years. That's what results are. Some properly qualified teachers mean high and even quality in all Norwegian nursery and classrooms. No matter where you live in the country, you need a good teacher. For the Left, it has been important to make the teaching profession more attractive, so that more people apply for it and become in it. We believe our kids deserve the best people, and then we have to recruit them and keep them. Many skilled teachers already work at school, but do not have any grades in the subjects in which they teach. We provide the opportunity to fill in and update the skills through the continuing training programmes for teachers, which have benefited over 40,000 people to date. Many projects and measures have been launched to recruit teachers and to retain the teachers we are actually training. The left has also helped to give teachers the opportunity to specialise and career paths in school. The latest statistics show that more and more teachers and teachers receive guidance and support when they begin a new position. These measures are a combination that motivates more people to work. I particularly welcome the level of status and competence of teachers, which means that teacher education has become a five-year master's degree, and that more have started and completed a teacher's education than before. A new report from the NIFU also shows that more stringent admission requirements contribute to the applicants for teacher training. Teachers are responsible for the most precious things we have – our kids. When we require master training, we show that we take them and the kids seriously. The teacher gets higher pay and deeper knowledge, and the student learns more and thrives better. Increased levels of competence must also mean more freedom for the teacher. The left has confidence that the teachers and the school know their best. We have to stop detailing, and we have to free the teacher's time, so that it is actually used to meet the students. Every student must be seen and lifted. Everyone should get through school. These are challenges we have the opportunity to solve now that the teaching shortage is cancelled.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2124	The vote will take a break in the debate on item No. Eighteen, and there's a call for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2136	The representative of Bjørn Moxnes shall apply for welfare leave from 23 March onwards. 16 to 25 March. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative Seher Aydar is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2156	The vote will then take place on Monday, 22 March, agenda No. 60.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2387	The Party of Advancement and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2399	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Party of Advancement and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2413	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Case No. 2 was interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2427	During the debate, Mr Aasland put forward two proposals on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a national strategy for implementing the decommissioning of Norwegian nuclear installations.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a strategy for industrial development and value creation based on competence in the decommissioning and management of nuclear waste.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2461	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2492	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Sivert Bjørnstad on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 6-8, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 9, from Torgair Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to investigate the future location of export finance Norway, where both continued localisation in Oslo and alternatives outside Oslo were investigated. The investigation shall also include an assessment of a new structure with several local offices based in major export regions of the country.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2527	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to await the merger of GIEK and Export Credit Norway to decide, on the basis of the corona crisis, a solution for the location of head office outside Oslo in line with the location of State jobs.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan to locate 200 other state jobs currently existing in Oslo to Groruddalen. Such relocalisation shall be carried out in parallel with the reorganisation and relocation of GIEK and Export Credit Norway.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2549	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider the merger of GIEK and Export Credit Norway in line with the State guidelines for the location of State jobs and to move the activity out of Oslo by adding its head office and branch office to Ålesund and Bergen respectively.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2564	There is a vote on proposal No. Six, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to select a model and location in the West for export finance Norway, which best serves the export environments along the coast and in the country.’ The Progress Party has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2582	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to strengthen the role of the regions in industrial development.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2599	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose ways of strengthening the presence of the State instrument for business throughout the country.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider extending the mandate to Export Finance Norway. Enlargement shall in particular facilitate the establishment of sound export finance schemes for green migration, commercialisation, scaling up and internationalisation.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose measures to make the instrument for business more business-oriented and customer-oriented, in particular measures that can simplify and make available the instrument for small and medium-sized enterprises.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2635	The Progress Party and the Centre Party have notified subsidiary aid to the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2757	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2767	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2779	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 2 and 3 by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The Size Transmits Prop. 70 S Financing and development of E18 on the Tvedestrand-Dørdal section of the municipalities of Bamble, Kragerø, Gjerstad, Vegårdshei, Riser and Tvedestrand in Westfold and Telemark and Agder back to the government.» [[2020-2021]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for a revised project for the E18 Dørdal-Tvedestrand where the two- and three-field road of today is part of the re-development of the E18 on the current route.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2812	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size approves the extension of E18 on the route Tvedestrand-Dørdal as described in Prop. 70 S [[2020-2021]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2842	The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2861	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4 and 5, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to conduct a draft selection investigation for the Norwegian part of a new train section between Oslo and Stockholm, where the target is travel time of less than three hours between the two capitals. [[KVU]] The KVU shall be seen in the context of the Swedish decision-making election study completed by the Swedish Transport Agency in November 2017 and the concepts of the two private companies in Norway and Sweden working for the same objective. The KVU shall also include the Kongswingerbahn as one of the trasé options and explore different government financing solutions through borrowing or other.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make a broad analysis of the possibilities for alternative state models for financing and organising railway development in Norway.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2897	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked, in cooperation with the Swedish authorities, to take the necessary initiatives to start planning a train offer with travel time of less than three hours between Oslo and Stockholm.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2914	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the responsibilities of the Directorate of Railways, Bane NOR and the Ministry of Transport’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to follow up the KVU of the Railway Directorate on the Kongswingerbahn and to start upgrading it both for freight and passenger transport.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2948	The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the suspension. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2969	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e2989	During the debate, Mr Dale has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal to allow ship-diving crews to remain subject to the Ship Safety Act and the Shipworker Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e3036	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e3047	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e3074	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e3093	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Eva Kristin Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘A review commission is appointed to ensure that the management of the mispractice of the Law on Credentials is sufficiently informed to allow the Stortinge to assess responsibilities and to provide a basis for reform and final reconciliation in the case. The majority asks the Presidency, in dialogue with the parliamentary leaders, to consider whether to set up a separate committee for that purpose or whether to deal with it in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs.’;» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e3119	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals for instructions and procedures for the ministry’s work ensuring compliance with the information obligation of the Stortinge.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e3170	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of a new overall report on quality and patient safety in healthcare services, with concrete objectives and actions followed by annual status messages.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose a low-threshold, non-punitive notification system throughout the healthcare system for the purpose of learning across, including near-events, following the model of the notification scheme set out in sections 3 to 3 of the Special Health Services Act, which was terminated in 2018.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government of the revised State budget for 2021 is asked to submit a plan for increased intensive capacity in Norway.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e3211	The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1 to 15 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e3220	Case No. 1–5 is the second time legal proceedings and concerns legislative acts 76–80. There are no comments. Thus, the law of the Storting has been passed on the second time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e3232	Case No. 6 was the presentation by the Minister of Justice and Defence of the planned sale of Bergen Engines AS. The President proposes that the statement be sent to the Foreign and Defence Committee. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e3281	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e3291	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e3447	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e3457	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e3469	In the course of the debate, Per-Willy Amundsen has put forward seven proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1– 6, from the Progress Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to establish its own gang in the police, based on Kripos, who will work to identify the networks and structures of the gangs throughout the country and internationally, in cooperation with the police districts concerned.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that sufficient testing capacity, informants, computer skills, etc. is ensured when setting up a crew in Kripos. to be able to follow criminal networks and repeat 24/7/365 on a continuous basis.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that, when setting up a gang in Kripos, there is sufficient scope for investigators, police lawyers and prosecution resources in the unit, as well as a related State attorney, so that the unit can bring the cases to justice itself.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that training and equipment are ensured when setting up a gang in Kripos so that the repeater can detect the advanced communication of the gangs and implement new tools that the Storting has provided to the police through changes in legislation on access to data readout, etc.’. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that a gang in Kripos, in order to avoid retaliation and self-justice in the rest of the world, will give priority to getting cases against gang members to court quickly and to seek the use of point (c) of the first paragraph of Section 79 of the Penal Code which may impose stricter penalties.’ [[‘org.krim paragraph’]] Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that work against organised crime and gangs must be given priority and resources in all police districts to enable them to do their part of the job.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e3514	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government, in cooperation with the police and the National Attorney General, to find a solution as soon as possible to avoid police investigation stopping and replacing the interim directive following the EMD judgment of 17 December 2020.’ The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e3538	The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e3564	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e3576	Case No. 11 was interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e3595	During the debate, the proposal for a decision has been amended and now reads: The capital consents to the entry into force of a tax agreement between Norway and Ghana in order to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion in respect of income taxes signed in Accra on 20 November 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e3614	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the use of selected green growth indicators as a long-term management tool for the Norwegian economy as a leader in the design of strategic targets for energy, environment and industry policy, so that the improvement in carbon productivity in the Norwegian economy is at least above the average recommended by the scientific consensus, i.e. more than 5 per cent per year’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to determine a revenue-neutral tax model for green growth. It shall provide tax incentives to enterprises that convert over time to real green growth [[improves carbon productivity relative to baseline]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e3652	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide the same set of annually updated main indicators for green growth that are currently reported to the OECD Green Growth Indicators in each State Budget proposal.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e3900	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e3912	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e3926	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4003	The size would then go back to the treatment of today's map. The next speaker is Roy Steffensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4008	I can be glad that there are no comments on the Storting to be late, because I came too late for this debate when it started, and I also see that the Councils are doing that now when we start at the second part of the debate. But if someone I think is going to be very happy that we don't have absenteeism, and that there are no comments, then there are the proposers behind the proposal we have today, because they are very late in the debate and claiming that there is a need for a repressive action against teaching shortages. Had there been any comments here, they had received a comment to be late. I heard the representative Fagerås say that after the election the red-greens should have a completely different focus than what is today. But that focus changed in 2013. That was when a force was launched against teaching shortages, with the Right and Advance Party government and the bourgeois majority. One of the main reasons why teachers want to stay longer in the profession and remain teachers is that they get professionally filled, that they get more competence and are challenged. Under the government of Stoltenberg, there were 1,500 teachers per year who received, on average, continuing training. Stoltenberg and the representative Trond Giske were in Trondheim in the 2013 election campaign and said they had ambitions to double this figure. Now, after the government change, this has shot speed. Now it's approx. 6000 a year that gets this, compared to 1,500 earlier. About 40,000 have now taken advantage of that offer. It provides better learning, and it contributes to more people wanting to remain teachers. Furthermore, today's majority in the Storting started a teacher's vow, where we introduced master's education for teachers, providing both increased status and increased pay. It's now approx. Four thousand more teachers in school than it was in 2013. Furthermore, we have introduced schemes in the Loan Fund to stimulate more people to become teachers and to start as teachers where the need may be greater than elsewhere. Increased requirements for starting teacher training have also been introduced. We see that the policy is working. We have more teachers in school now, more will now be teachers. So there are others who are applying for teacher training, and there are others who seem to be completing it. There is a clear link between increased intake requirements and positive developments in school-oriented teacher education in recent years, with historically high applicants and implementation. When the red-green parties get into the debate eight years in overtime, with all due respect to report, it's not to lower the ambitions to solve a teacher's crisis. On the contrary, it is about continuing and strengthening the policies that have been pursued. It is worth mentioning the SSB figures that show that there is going to be a surplus of primary school teachers, and that there can be excess of all kinds of teachers up to 2040, not a deficit, as proposed by the proposers. It is important to look critically at teacher training and the openness and willingness to find improvements. The new master teacher training is still in an in-service phase. No party must lock itself in ideological blind ways. We have to think of quality, we have to be open and listening to the parties involved and the school professionals. The Progress Party agrees that efforts are needed in many areas to have a stable and good recruitment for all teacher training and to make teachers stay in the profession as long as possible. We think it's the majority of today who best take care of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4027	The last year has been a year when we really appreciated our teachers. They are simply invaluable. While we've been in the middle of a pandemic, the teachers have been responsible for managing the country's most important resource for the future, our students. They have stood straight in their backs, despite fear of infection and digital barriers, showing great flexibility and – the most important thing: they have done it. The country's teachers have replaced classrooms and daily presence with students with digital teaching arrangements and distance requirements. Norwegian school has been given the biggest change in how to teach, ever — and almost overnight. Many schools have now become almost fortunate, with all that it implies, at good and bad. Teachers around the country fold up their sleeves and adapt to the new everyday life of both busy working days and perhaps home school for their own children as well. I would like to pay tribute to the proposers for putting an important theme on the agenda. Professional and personally competent teachers are the most important things for students' education and learning. I believe that a long-term commitment to quality in teacher training and professional communities is crucial for recruiting and not least maintaining skilled teachers. And a lot of good is done on the recruitment page. We know that efforts are required in many areas to have a stable and good recruitment to all teacher training and not least to make teachers stay in the profession. This is why several good strategies and a number of measures have been put forward in recent years from what is the majority and the government parties. The sum of these measures and active policies has just helped to create a more attractive school sector, which in itself seems to be recruiting, as we have recorded. Some of the most important Christian People's Party has been prioritizing, has been getting a pass on to a teacher's norm, which is perhaps one of the most successful changes for Norwegian school in recent times. Through the teacher norm, and thereby the efforts made to increase teacher density, we have given teachers better working conditions and greater opportunities to see each student. This seems to be recruiting. The teacher code has produced results. In the 2019–2020 school year, we had the lowest number of pupils per teacher in the last 11 years, and the teacher density increased at all stages. But while we've done a lot, it's important for me to also say that we're still not in the goal. We have to do more. The rapporteurs have put a cross-political issue on the agenda. For our children, our most precious is, and the teachers as instructors and teachers sit with the key to arming the young for the future they're going to go into. So we need to do what we can to keep securing enough qualified and motivated teachers for the future. In order to achieve this, we must first of all ensure that more people apply to teacher training, and we must prevent apostasy through the education cycle and ensure that as much as possible remains in school. We have to make the profession attractive even over time. Studies show that more teachers disappear from the profession, including: for administrative posts. That is why I am pleased that we, together with the other government parties and the Progress Party, ensure many good steps to both recruit and keep the teachers in school. Let me mention someone: we're increasing the commitment of the school owners and schools to have good temporary work arrangements that ensure more qualified temporary workers in permanent and full positions. We strengthen measures for decentralised teacher training, which contribute to the recruitment of those who are well established in the districts. We're continuing the mentoring system for the newly-trained teachers. We strengthen the principal's school and leadership education in school, so that all senior teachers and middle managers in school can also take management training. We maintain the continuing training effort at the same high level as the current government has promised. We're making it easier for more teachers to take a longer time at work. We want to make it easier for teachers to combine studies with working as a temporary student in school. And we're opening up that the vocational education sector can help train more professionals. I'm proud that we're in a government that's really committed to the teacher and ready to recruit thousands of new teachers in addition to the student development. But we're not on target. We will also ensure that we have enough qualified teachers throughout Norway to manage Norway's most important capital in the coming years, namely the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4042	The government is making great efforts to train skilled teachers and ensure more teachers for the school. I believe that good teachers are the most important thing for students' learning. A long-term commitment to quality is absolutely central to recruiting and maintaining good teachers. I fully agree with the proposers that efforts are required in many areas in order to get stable and good recruitment to all teacher training and also to get teachers to stand in the profession. And after many years of clearly putting teachers in focus, fortunately, there are many arrows pointing in the right direction. Today, we have more teachers, more qualified teachers and more teachers who meet the qualifications requirements, and the projections estimate that with today's development, we do not face a future shortage of teachers in school. The teacher code has helped to ensure more teachers, which in turn gives more time to each student. The primary education information system, GSI, shows that today there are more than 6,300 teachers’ years of education in primary school than it was in 2007. Nearly 5000 of these are used for childhood education. The number of years of education in schools carried out by qualified teachers has increased every year since 2013. In this school year, more than 53,000 years' work in primary school, i.e. 96.4 pst., is carried out by qualified teachers. Despite more teachers in education and a great deal of effort on temporary work arrangements to facilitate further training – i.e. teachers who continue to train are getting a temporary worker instead of teaching – the proportion of apprenticeships who do not meet the qualifications for addition is on the way down. In order to continue this positive development, we have, among other things, set up a pilot scheme for teachers who have started to learn but have not completed their training so that they can complete their training. This arrangement runs until 2025. In the proposal we are discussing here today, the proposers express concern, with the background in figures from the SSB that produced a shortage of 5,800 teachers by 2040. Now up-to-date SSB projections say we're going to have a solid surplus of primary school teachers in the future. These uplifting figures give us the opportunity to continue the positive development, with more teachers in training and more qualified teachers in classrooms throughout the country. I agree with the proposal maker from the Workers' Party who said to the NRK last week that these figures are moving us towards more teachers in school. We also want more men in school, and we've given 11 million to the Hochskulen in the West. kr for a national project to recruit male applicants for GLU 1-7 and for kindergarten teacher training. I'm proud of the government's generous commitment to teachers and the school. Further training schemes shall, in addition to improving the quality of training, enable more teachers to meet the requirements of competence. Since 2013, we have increased the quality of education through professional diving requirements and the government's strong commitment to continuing education. More than 40,000 teachers have been offered further training. This includes, among other things: led us to have 12,000 fewer unqualified compared to 2015. We know that there are still many students who are trained by a teacher who does not meet the competence requirements for the subjects, and I am therefore pleased that the considerable effort on continuing training through competence for quality continues with full strength. This became a lot of numbers, and I feel that this debate is also a little bit about using numbers in a little bit of different ways. But the important thing is that we agree that we should recruit and keep good teachers in Norwegian classrooms. In addition to continuing training, we focus on career opportunities for teachers through teacher-specialist schemes, specialist training and through the Public Sector PhD scheme. for teachers. It increases the status of the teaching profession and also contributes to senior teachers wanting to be longer at work. We also focus on the guidance of newly-trained, newly-trained teachers, so that they can quickly feel safe in the teacher's role, and we have set up a grant scheme for it in primary school. Now we have also got numbers here that show that development is moving in the right direction, and in the autumn of 2021 I will engage in dialogue with the organisations on how we will follow up this work further. We want the students to have good and good teachers. The government has ambitious plans, and the numbers show that we succeed. We have more teachers, with better skills, and we now have a very good basis for putting forward what is most important for children's learning, namely the teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4070	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4075	It was interesting to hear the councils make their assessments of the new SSB numbers that have arrived. As the government actually said, the numbers have changed a little bit, but the policy that follows them remains the same, maybe on both sides. I'd say from our side it's about what's behind the headline. Here I think the devil is a little bit in the details. It sounds as if the government parties are using this as an excuse for simply not doing anything, not changing anything on the course. Head of the Federation of Education, Steffen Handal, has, as a comment to both Councils' comments on the figures, called this a little ambitious approach. Earlier in today's debate, the party colleague of the Council of State, Mr Schytz, said that one can now put an end to the teaching shortage crisis. Do the state councils agree with their party colleague? Can one now vent the teaching shortage crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4084	Firstly, I think that this debate shows that we should all use projections with some caution, either the projections show that we have a shortage of a profession, or whether they show that we have a profit. That's what I think we can all take with us. Printouts are projections, they're not certain facts. Having said that, I believe that projections that show that we want a profit if the trends we now have continue, will depend on us having a government that continues to demand teachers and continues to make it attractive to go to the teaching profession. It'll be a determining factor. At the same time, I think the numbers show that we don't necessarily now need to hunt to get as many teachers as possible, for example. I think this would be a very strange time to lower the requirements for teacher training to get even more in, when we know that it's not just about the number of teachers, but about getting enough qualified teachers. These figures give us the opportunity to adjust the policy, but continuing to ensure enough qualified teachers at least I intend to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4093	My prediction about this debate is at least that I think it will continue in the same tracks. So I'm glad to hear that the Council of State is also, like the Workers' Party, engaged in recruiting qualified teachers. We will have a good debate over a long time on what those requirements should be. The working party is subject to requirements, but not to the rigid and unilateral math requirements of the government. It's not just projections that give cause for concern, it's not least the current situation you're in, what I'd call a coronary fatigue, both in schools and in kindergartens. VG could present figures from the Education Association that showed that a large proportion of teachers want to move away from the profession because they are simply exhausted. I have previously challenged the Council of State that these teachers and employees in both schools and kindergartens have not been compensated for overtime and extra work. The last time we talked about it, one was waiting for a dialogue between the parties. It didn't come forward. Will the Council of State now say if she wants to take action to change the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4102	Only a short walk into these ‘rigids’ requirements for teacher training mentioned. First of all, it's not a one-sided math requirement. It's a requirement that you have to have 3 in Norwegian, and then you have to have 4 in math. So we're demanding both language skills and competence in mathematics. The reason why these are exactly the subjects for which you demand competence is that these subjects are very important in terms of basic skills, which are really important in all subjects and at all levels of primary school. And then there's another point: we got numbers today that show that the level of implementation of those starting teacher training has increased dramatically. We also need to be interested in it – that those who start their teacher training should be able to finish, because it gives us more teachers and more skilled teachers. When we see that the four-day requirement is probably an important reason why more people are doing well now, I think it would be a strange time to remove both that and the three-day requirement in Norwegian. That being said, I know that there is a very tiring everyday life around many Norwegian classrooms, and we have to do what we can to facilitate the situation of teachers in a very special pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4111	I would like to start by reminding the Council of State of the lack of agreement on admission requirements for teacher training, so that the Council of State does not discuss with a strawman who is not present. We fully agree that demands must be made. We disagree on four in mathematics. We believe it would be more appropriate to make targeted demands on the subjects in which you are going to teach, so that you avoid what is happening now, that good Norwegian teachers and English teachers, with good grades there, but not good grades in math, are not given the opportunity to become teachers. But first of all, I want to give the Council an opportunity to elaborate on what I was trying to ask about: the earlier – and difficult – debate on compensating teachers for overtime and extra work. So the discussion between the parties has stopped. It doesn't seem to be as good a solution as it should have been. My question to the Council of State is what she, as a third party in this, will do. Will the government now take action to ensure that teachers who have had overtime and additional work are compensated?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4119	On Friday, KS presented figures that show that the municipal sector has been well compensated through the coronary crisis. In other words, at macro level, municipalities have been given what the coronary crisis has cost. This means that all, most of the municipalities have received significant funds, including: to compensate for expenditure in schools and kindergartens. What we have done to help the money reach its destination is that last week we sent letters to all the country's rapporteurs, where we were clear on what we think these compensations should be spent on. We were very clear that a large part of what's typical of extra work in school because of the corona, whether it's temporary, whether it's overtime, or whether it's for premises, showers and cleaning, are examples of expenditure that we want to calculate when we calculate compensation for the municipalities, and which we assume they're using.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4126	Today's teacher crisis is helped by lower birthrates. However, the new drafts from the SSB do not acquit the government, on the contrary, the Central Party believes that the government's policy reinforces the problem. Now we are approaching the completion of the separation of general teachers who were trained before 2014. Many of them are well educated, with long practical experience in school. According to the Information System of Primary School, 22,673 primary school teachers do not currently meet the requirements of Norwegian, Sami, Norwegian, Sign Language, Mathematics and English teaching. Can the Council of State guarantee that all these will be offered further training in time, and that those who wish to continue in school may, or is the Council of State comfortable, replace separated skilled teachers by unskilled teachers in 2025?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4131	When we first introduced demands on how many points you need in different subjects to teach in those subjects, it was about ensuring good training for all students throughout the country. When we set out the requirements, we set up at the same time thousands of places for further training in the same subjects that the municipalities have been able to use. I just have to say that Norwegian municipalities have been very good. They themselves have been involved in the hard work and have contributed to the continuing training of 6 000 to 7 000 teachers every year. It also means that there are now very few teachers in non-qualified subjects such as Norwegian, English and mathematics, and it is very good for Norwegian students. We have said that we want to continue the strong continuing training effort we have had, also in the future, to ensure that we achieve the goals, and we need to do so in cooperation with the municipalities. They have to make sure that they give priority to the teachers who need these credits to be qualified. Then I also want to say that there are none of these that will be kicked out of Norwegian school, all of them can continue to work as teachers, they just can't teach exactly those subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4136	I thank you for your answer. I think that in reality many of them will continue to teach, but they will by definition be ‘unskilled’. It's just some of the things that are the problem of separation. But I want to change the theme, because I expect the Council of State to know the fresh report on guidance. It establishes happy news, such as the functioning of guidance and the functioning of the funding and grant scheme. But finding time is still the biggest challenge, many of the supervisors lack formal counseling skills, and little indicates that the number of guides has increased a lot. In return, those who get it are satisfied and will continue to be teachers, which is one of the greatest challenges to address. Then I wonder, what does the Council of State think it would mean for newly-trained, newly-trained teachers if the guidance was fixed today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4143	I am pleased that the representative is lifting up a cause of joy, that there are just a number of newly educated people who are being guided. It's very good, and I think it's an important tool both to keep competent people in school and to make sure they're motivated to do a good job in the future. Now we've had it as a voluntary scheme, but we've given grants, and now we see that there are more and more people getting guidance. I want us to have a dialogue with the municipalities in this case, which are employers for these teachers, and with the teacher organisations to see what is the right way forward to ensure that all teachers get this, which is a very good thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4148	Every day, thousands of children go to school without being trained by a qualified teacher. No one had accepted that if they were not trained for the job, they would be employed by doctors and nurses. It is also illegal — but not in the case of teachers. Here it is employed over a low shoe, and people from high school can be added to teach our kids. Too many teachers disappear from the profession. A total of about 8,100 schoolteachers in 2008 had a completely different job ten years later. These are numbers from the SSB. What targeted action will the Minister of Knowledge take to bring back the reserve strength of teachers working outside the school?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4153	At first I think it's in place to correct this reality a little bit. Because the vast, large majority of those who teach in Norwegian classrooms today are qualified teachers. In this school year, there are 66 000 teachers, qualified teachers, who have all the credits they need, while 3,229 are what we define as unqualified. Many of these may have a relevant education, but they may not have completed the education. So even though it obviously happens, and it's a challenge that there's still too many unqualified, I think the picture drawn by the fact that it's almost a crisis is quite exaggerated. But we have to continue the force force we do for the further training of teachers. Many of these people want to take a training course and get the formal qualifications in place. I think that the most important thing we can do to keep people in the profession and maybe also withdraw them is to secure good career paths, red tape the teacher's role and make sure that teachers have time to be teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4158	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4163	Next spring, the first ordinary coal is graduated with master students from primary school teacher education. I am very proud that this government has made this conversion into a five-year master. The Master's degree for teachers was long-lasting and had broad support both among teachers and in organisations. It is well documented that a practical master’s training strengthens the overall competence of the teachers. At the same time, early intervention and initial training are given a boost. The new trainings provide experience from research and development on what is happening in and outside the classroom. This enables teachers to develop their own teaching practices and to drive school development. The sum of this is a good offer for Norwegian students. An international group of experts has followed the introduction of master’s programmes and concluded that education is unusually ambitious and differs internationally. We're starting to see how the new elementary school teachers are doing. More than before attending the education, and less falls from it. In the last three years, an average of 308 students met for primary school teachers than in 2013 and 1,185 more than in 2008. This is an increase of 11 and 61 pst, respectively. Among the students who started four years of primary school education in 2012, they had 20.8 p.m. fell off after one year. Of the coal with master students who started in 2018, 15.1 pst. fell off after one year. For 2019 the figure was 13.2 pst. A report from NIFU may indicate that the fourth requirement in mathematics has contributed to the success of the students and that more implements. The background to tightening the admission requirements was the desire for several of the strong candidates from high school to apply for just teacher training. The NIFU report confirms a positive link between upper secondary and secondary qualifications and upper secondary qualifications. The report points out that students score several points of study and that fewer fall from early in the study. With this in mind, it is my opinion that we need to maintain these recording requirements. But, of course, we have to keep working to get more and better students to the teacher training, which gives good teachers for children and young people. We also have other measures to get more qualified teachers out to school. On behalf of the government, the universities of North Norway developed a pilot scheme for those who have completed more than half of their teacher training. They may receive a scholarship from the Directorate of Education and an organised scheme to complete four-year primary school teacher training. Many already work at school and lack only a few points of study and a few days of practice to be able to graduate as teachers. Additional four institutions in other regions have started or will start the scheme, which runs from 2019 to 2025. 30 teachers are already graduates – most of them just in North Norway – and we expect 30 more in the spring. Each graduate contributes to the reduction of teaching shortages in Norwegian schools. I would like to mention that in other areas, we are also actively engaged in recruitment to North Norway. Those who started elementary school teacher education in 2017 or later can cancel up to 161,000 kroner of the study loan if they work in North Norway afterwards. In the meantime, there is a temporary arrangement for teachers taking a job in some municipalities in Troms and Finnmark. There are several national arrangements for the cancellation of student loans for teachers. Finally, I would like to stress that this government has the ambition to train highly professionally strong, safe and developmentally oriented teachers, who can make a difference for Norway and for each individual student.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4182	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4187	The SSB has provided a projection based on the assumption that birth rates are falling. Now I read in the perspective statement that the government expects the birth figures to rise. This means that the government should be as concerned with the current situation as with the projections. This morning I heard the Minister of Knowledge, in the Political Quarter, comfort that the birth figures are going down, so the prospects are really quite positive. Norway needs more children and must have qualified teachers. The Labour Party has an active policy to achieve both of these objectives. If the Council of State is not now motivated by the red-green proposals for action, it should at least take on board international research, which shows that teaching shortages have serious consequences. It threatens the learning capacity of the students, the instability of the teaching staff negatively affects the performance of the students and reduces the quality and effectiveness of teaching. What are the government's answers to these problems, which are documented in Norwegian school, since they reject this power cap?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4197	Let me start by reminding you that in the SSB's report, the greatest outcome is the downward birth rate, but also with a higher trajectory, there will be a surplus of the number of teachers, according to the SSB. I am the Council of State in a government where the Prime Minister uses the new year to get people to have more children, so I fully understand that it is important for us that more children come. That's why it would be strange if, as a government, we said that now we're going to downgrade the number of places to study in teacher education, for example. We don't have to. On the contrary, both the Minister of Knowledge and I have now talked for a total of 10 minutes about measures we are taking to ensure that more people are applying for teacher training, and that more people are completing and completing teacher training, precisely because we want to train more and better teachers. But what's the big difference between the red-green alternatives and us is that the red-green options are always about jeopardizing expectations for getting more teachers, while what we think, and what I think we can now see the results of, is that increased expectations lead to increased applicants and increased implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4204	Then I thank the Council of State for the answer. However, there is a shortage of teachers, and nowhere is it larger than in North Norway, despite the measures that the Council of State has taken. In an article in Khrono in December, Professor Emeritus Jordell wrote that the most serious situation can be expected in Northern Ireland, possibly also in former Finnmark. Earthly points out that in Northern Ireland there are already ten municipalities there more than 10 pst. hours are given by unskilled teachers. Two municipalities had more than 30 pst. It is serious, not least in view of the recent government’s own district industry commission, that the basis for the skills of the workforce, among other things, has been established. I'm in high school. So the government has put in place a chain of measures that together create teaching shortages. What action will the Council of State take to meet the needs of teachers in the districts and elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4217	It just repeats and repeats that we have this teaching deficiency. Some of the background to this discussion is also whether the problem is as big as what we thought for a long time, because what we see is that there are more teachers who are being trained and educated, and that also means more teachers entering school. So it's absolutely right that there are differences between different parts of the country as regards the need for more teachers. That is why, on the one hand, we have pointed out the measures we have already taken, namely that those who train, who choose to work in North Norway, will be able to cancel a large part of their study loan. The second is that of course we have to make sure that we have strong professional environments in our teacher training courses in North Norway. We have that now; there are skilled, good teachers on different campuses around the whole of North Norway. But the third thing is that we have to make sure that the professional environments we have that train teachers also train competent teachers. It can't be that we're jeopardizing expectations in different parts of the country. Instead, we need to take even more steps to ensure that North Norway has more teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4224	First of all, we probably have to see that there is still a shortage of teachers, and that there are a lot of schools and a lot of students who don't have qualified teachers, even in the long term. It is also tempting to ask the Council of State for the precisely post-secondary and continuing education of the 22,673 primary school teachers who need to be filled to qualify in 2025. But I'd rather ask about the teacher students, because they've given feedback that the studies are little practical – they lack practice. The question then is: what will the Council of State do to ensure that the teacher students experience the studies as more work-oriented, and how does he think, if any, guidance is taking place?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4229	Now it is tempting not to answer the question that the representative did not ask. I am nevertheless tempted to answer the question that was not asked, just briefly: the most important thing to achieve the goal in 2025 is not to change the majority in this room. That's to keep the majority we have, which also keeps the pressure on continuing education after the elections in September this year. Then to the teacher training. It's clear, now we've got five years of practical master's education, and the first coal goes out next year. First of all, a lot has worked well, but we also have to learn and develop it all the way. The second is that not so long ago I gave a big message about work relevance, where I pointed to practice as a very important part – not only in the education that already has it, but also in more education. It's something that the students report back that they have a lot of profit. In that direction, of course, we've done a lot in guidance to make sure that the quality goes up, and that more people use it. I'm very busy keeping focus on both things: one is that more school owners need to use guidance and get more supervisors, and that's why we also have education that offers it. But the second is also to make sure that the quality of that guidance is as good as it can be.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4236	I thank you for your answer. Some of the feedback is that master’s education is not practical enough and that there is no room for it in master’s education. I think that this is related to what the Council of State takes up in its contribution, and the commitment to counteract non-response. The cause-effect is to be careful to conclude about, and I think that his commitment to fourer requirements in mathematics should really be divided by the exposure that the opposition takes up, with an average requirement to get into the educations. Several educational institutions have stated that they want to remove the four-tier requirement. So I wonder what kind of professional basis the Council of State is on that these educational institutions don't possibly have, because they want to eliminate the four-digit requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4243	Now it's worth remembering that NTNU, a teacher-trainer, recommends keeping the four-digit requirement, so there are shared opinions in the university and higher education sectors as well. But when that's said, the background is that we know that mathematics is the subject of most teachers' studies. It is important to get them through education, which is why it is important to have some expectations. So that's the character requirement of 4 in the simplest form of mathematics from high school and grade 3 in Norwegian on average. So that's not the case. The second is that if you first join the gallery and say that we should have a cut, the representative will end up in exactly the same questions that I am getting into, because then you will also find someone who will be a Norwegian teacher, who has 6 in Norwegian, but who has not cut that makes her or he come in. Then the representative would just have to answer that, instead of having to answer this with the grade 4 in mathematics. But math is a basic skill that goes into many subjects, so I think it's reasonable to make the claim. What we see now is that several of the applicants come in, and they do the study faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4252	The last time I met the minister, in New Year's Eve 18, otherwise, it was a fact that I thought he was too easy to escape. Because in the autumn there was a sharp decline in the number of applicants for teacher training, despite the fact that we had a high level of unemployment. It is particularly in education 5-10. There was a decline, but OsloMet experienced a decrease of 1–7. on 5 pst. I'm very concerned, and so should the minister. We need more qualified teachers in Norwegian classrooms. What has the Minister done to make the candidate figures for the autumn more positive?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4259	It is here and in the New Year 18 I meet the representative – it is nice to meet her here too! Firstly, I would like to nuance this picture that the candidate number almost collapsed in 2020. In fact, it fell compared to 2019, but the number of qualified applicants increased. In other words, several of those who were qualified to start teacher training, applied for and started teacher training, because they meet the character requirements we have set. The second is that, although it decreased from 2019, there is a higher number of applicants than in 2017. In fact, it's just that it's gone up over so many years that you get some declines as well. So what are we doing? Well, first of all, I'm very pleased with more qualified applicants. We have also set up several teaching places to ensure that we get rid of more of those who qualify and who want to get out. For example, we're driving. own campaigns to recruit more men into teacher training. The capital of the West, for example, has received 10 million. NOK to run out of recruitment. So we're doing a lot. But the fact is that more applicants, more finishers, they finish faster and get out of school.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4270	The cord shift is over. Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I would like to state that the so-called alternate for Oslo, Seher Aydar, has now taken his seat. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4283	Getting the opportunity to discuss how we as politicians can contribute to getting even more skilled teachers for our students is always welcome. Now I'm not going to stand here and say there's no new thoughts in this proposal, but I'm basically the most satisfied that we here actually get the opportunity to point out that very much, in fact most, of what's suggested here, things the government has either done, is about to do, or has announced that it should do. To be allowed to present the government's policy in this way, we just have to be allowed to be grateful for it. I am also pleased to see that there is a great deal of consensus that good vocational teachers are important. But as for so many other suggestions, I wonder a little bit about the parties that have promoted this matter, have slept a little in the hour over the last few years. Not that there's no room for still betting, but there's been a lot of happening here. In the autumn of 2015, the government launched the Vocational Teachers' Lift, precisely to help recruit more professionals and to ensure that more people receive approved teacher training. A decentralised continuing training system was established in 2019. Some of the measures in the vocational training profession are also hospitation and professional updating. We also have a separate grant scheme for school staff who lack training for teachers. And we have scholarship funds that can be used to enable school owners to recruit people outside the school who lack approved education. So there are some of the good measures that are in place there. I would also like to point out the establishment of the Competence Centre for Professionals at OsloMet and the Centre for Professionals and Training at the University of Agder. Once again, I wonder if someone has really slept very well in the hour. The representative Jonas Gahr Støre has been out saying that for him and the Workers' Party, this is one of the important measures in the years to come. Then I would like to remind you that the government has set up not only one, but two such professional centres, which are just doing what they want. We'd like to strengthen them and bet on them, but they're actually doing a good job today. I still want to point a little bit more forward. We still need more teachers with the right professional skills. The Government Parties and the Advance Party therefore believe that we need to look at how our specialised schools can help train more skilled professionals. Professional schools have good and important skills, are closely related to working life and know their needs well. One of the big bets of this government and the Advance Party has just been our colleges. That the vocational schools should also be able to contribute further, we believe is quite correct. The most important thing for students' learning is a skilled teacher also for our professions, and one of the main factors for success in a completion reform in secondary school is to train and recruit more professionals as well. Professional schools already want to contribute to it today, and I believe that we should let them get away with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4296	I'm not that bad in math -- I could have managed to get a four-pointer in position on the first attempt, but I was so tired of the school when I took the math, that I didn't quite give priority to putting the effort into it, I can say. It's a little awkward to look back at now in retrospect, but right there and then it felt more important to spend time on leisure activities and having a pleasant life than getting good grades. Anyway, I had good enough grades to get into some cool studies without the four in math. So this was when I went to high school six years ago, before the 4th requirement was introduced, and before I knew what it would mean for my further chances in education to have exactly this character in this particular subject. But now I'm working at a school. I like it so much when I get to know the students, watch them evolve, and hear their reflections around everything that happens around them. I feel that it is a great responsibility to have an influence in children's lives every day, and I feel that I fit well into the role of leading a class. That's why I can imagine doing more of this and applying for teacher training. But to do so, I first have to take an expensive private exam to nail the four that I am missing today, and then I am one semester late in getting hold of the teacher's education. It means a lot now that all teacher training is five years old, and it will take even longer before I possibly want to get to work as a teacher. It makes my way into this profession considerably longer, not only literally because it takes longer, it also makes it a less tempting way to take, and I doubt whether that is the right choice for me. I think that's a pity, because there's a lot different with the teaching profession that really appeals. I think it was good intentions to introduce the 4th requirement in mathematics. It's clear that we're going to have high quality teachers and education in the Norwegian school, but now that there's been a demand for a four-year math to get into teacher training for some years, we're seeing so many things where it turns out in an unfortunate way and makes us lose good teachers, that I think we can conclude that the requirement has failed. That is why I think, partly for purely selfish reasons, of course, but most of all from the same argument that the other red-green representatives have put forward today about recruiting teachers, that it is particularly important to support the proposal that has, appropriately enough, been named ‘proposal 4’ in this matter today. And even if it doesn't go through today, we might as well have a different majority in this case in just a few months to make sure we can drop this four-time requirement. It'll be a good day for the Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4309	At the beginning of this debate I began to wonder why there was no student strike around the whole school-Norway in protest against their not having teachers in their classrooms, for so bad was the reality described in this room. It surprises me very much, because I have to say, yes, I agree with the representative Tvedt Solberg, who says that this is an annual debate we have, but it's not like we're sitting here with the same numbers and the same trends that we had four years ago. We're actually sitting here with quite a lot of thorough evidence that indicates that we're now going in the right direction in the Teacher's Lift. It should, I think, reflect on the positions you took years ago. We have over 4,000 more qualified teachers in Norwegian classrooms, the teacher's density is highest in 12 years, and over 40,000 teachers have received further training. There were record scores of qualified people who applied for teacher training last year, and new numbers now show that after we introduced qualification number 4, there were 7 pst. increase, i.e. in completion, in one year. You can put question marks on a lot, but you can't say anything but that this very clearly indicates that character requirements actually work to get more people to complete. So it was 3.2 pst. of the hours worked by the unqualified in 2013 and now it is 3,6 pst, and it is 0,4 pst. increase that we need to take seriously. But it's clear, there's also been a decline in the last few years, despite the fact that 6,000 teachers receive further education this year and therefore leave the classrooms, and often there are temporary staff who step in, and despite the fact that in addition to that, in the next few years, we're going to have more teachers, that is, a surplus of teachers who can compensate for it. In other words, there's a lot of evidence that we're now going in the right direction. So I believe that the solution to the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party is a little bit of a question like this, which I don't think will make the school any better. To put it at the top of the page, you could probably get more teachers on paper by removing all recording requirements, reducing the number of years of teacher training, or for example: dropped out of continuing training of teachers. In isolation, this would lead to fewer unqualified people, but there is nothing to suggest that education would be better for the students in the classroom, or that the status of the teaching profession would be higher. And then I understand that recording requirements will always have some challenges. Let's say you have the grade 6 in Norwegian and you want to become a Norwegian teacher. But you got 2 in gym, and it gets your cut below the special character limit that the opposition parties want to adopt. It may also happen, but I think having the fourth grade in simplest mathematics has given you an increased status to the teaching profession. Applicants have higher grades. And I would like to remind you that in law school, psychology education -- in a lot of education -- we don't question the fact that you spend years taking up a profession, where there's an average of 5.9 or over 6 to get in, while in teacher training you suddenly ask that question. I think that's a little cross of thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4322	Over-the-counter percentage of those who have completed their education and training are opting for other professions after only a short period of time. There is an overall increase that has been concerned that guidance for newly educated teachers should be an important tool to get more people to stay in the profession. On Friday, the final report, Evaluation of guidance from newly-trained teachers, was published. The report shows that guidance works. Those who receive guidance are more positive in the profession and respond to a greater degree that they think they are still going to be in the profession in five years. The funding and the grant scheme work. School leaders who have received grants receive more systematic guidance. Finding time remains the main challenge for practical guidance. Many supervisors still lack formal counselling skills, but little indicates that the number of guidance received has increased significantly. The report concludes that: ‘The findings of the qualitative interviews suggest that, among owners and management in kindergartens and in schools where the guide offers lack quality, guidance is referred to as a priority because it is not required by law. Thus, although it was decided in 2017 by Stortinget that all new graduates would be offered guidance and it was designed a commitment agreement with several parties, it seems that some actors regard the principles as leading more than obligating.’ This finding is in stark contrast to what appears in the position of the Committee, where the majority concludes with: ‘The majority will therefore highlight the need for good dialogue with the relevant parties and to take advantage of the experience gained from the above-mentioned evaluation as the main steps in both the short and long term and therefore it is not appropriate to regulate the guidance of newly-trained newly-trained teachers by law or regulation.’ The principles and obligations signed by the parties in 2018 expire in the summer. We now believe in EN that it is urgent to have the guidance system for newly-trained teachers fixed and expanded, that more research is needed to ensure more qualified teachers in school, and that they can stand longer in the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4341	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4358	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4365	First, I would like to thank the proposers for a good and important proposal, which is about securing traditional and craft trades as important carriers of Norwegian cultural heritage. I would also like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation and for its unanimous support for stressing the importance of traditional and craft trades. In order to preserve this cultural heritage, sustainable and robust framework conditions are important. The pheasants shall contribute to the country's ability to maintain and manage cultural heritage properly for the future. I would also like to stress that the majority of the Committee, consisting of the Right, the Progressive Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, does not support the minority's proposal to define cultural heritage schools as schools ensuring the preservation of national valuable competences in subjects of great importance for the preservation of our common cultural heritage. The minority, the Centre Party, SV and the Workers' Party, propose that the government establish basic funding for schools offering cultural heritage. This is also not supported by the government parties and the Progress Party. The Committee has noted that there are many adult students in these schools who do not trigger the same ordinary state grants as students with youth rights. Then it is a pity that the government parties and the Progress Party will not support the proposal to fund cultural heritage schools that care for adults without the right to secondary education. I would like to refer to the State Council's letter to the matter and to that she will present a message on secondary education this spring. I hope that the Storting will get this very soon, and that the message will take care of the minority's concerns and the input that has come from, among other things. The Norwegian Cultural Heritage Foundation and other professional bodies to secure the Hjerleid School of Crafts at Dovre, the Furniture Sewing School in Mysen and the Plus School in Fredrikstad. The working party expects the advertised secondary education message to ensure a complete commitment and operation of schools offering small and protective subjects. Norway, as a cultural nation, must have the ambition to ensure that cultural heritage is provided with sustainable and robust framework conditions, so that we as a nation can preserve and continue our proud cultural heritage through increased recruitment to traditional and craft trades. In this case, there have been several hearing bodies that have expressed themselves and have been very concerned – Building Protection, the Museum Network of Traditional Crafts, the Røros Museum, the Norwegian Association of Professional and Free Schools, Norway's Husflidslag and others. It is worrying when the government does not want to follow up on the proposals of the minority, which takes care of all the hearings that have taken place, but we look forward to receiving a report on higher education that will ensure that this is done. Then I want to address the minority's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4382	The representative Jorodd Asphjell has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4387	In the right, we fully agree with the proposers that schools offering traditional and craft trades are important carriers and intermediaries of Norwegian cultural heritage – and that they are undoubtedly an important contribution to continuing to have professional skills such as Norway as a cultural nation, absolutely needed. These schools need durable and robust framework conditions. We also fully agree that schools such as Hjerleid Handwerksskole at Dovre, Østfold Furniture carpenters' school in Mysen and the Plus school in Fredrikstad need more predictable framework conditions. I am very proud that the government and the Progress Party have implemented and implemented a real historical commitment to professionalism, and we also want to ensure these important professions. In national strategies, we have provided leadership to safeguard our cultural heritage, including the intangible. In the Granavolden platform, the government parties state that we will further develop mechanisms that motivate us to preserve both tangible and intangible cultural heritage, and to preserve new findings so that future generations will also enjoy important cultural memories and environments. This is an important task we have on behalf of all children and young people, and for those who come after us. We have been made aware that craft schools, such as those I mentioned in the introduction, face both structural and economic challenges, and the Council of State points out in its opinion to the Committee that the issues related to this are complex and that the offers must also be seen in a lifelong learning perspective. There is also a need to look at how regional centres of excellence can play an important role in caring for these small and protective subjects. There is no doubt that there is a cross-political consensus on the importance of caring for our traditional and craft schools. A Joint Education and Research Committee was composed of a note in the State budget and asked the Government to look into arrangements to ensure precisely what the proposers included in this proposal for a representative. So it's kind of strange that it's coming now, but you might want to highlight something. The government was asked by an overall committee to look at schemes such as easier admission to adult law, basic funding and rights in the Loan Fund, which strengthen the operating base and create greater predictability, and that such schemes may also be assessed in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture. The Committee on Family Affairs and Culture also noted that they asked the government to assess possible support schemes. If we're going to be able to find the best solution for these subjects and schools, we have to make sure that we see this in the whole they're part of, and don't shoot anything here today. Now, the big news about high school is right around the corner, and it is therefore natural for us to look at the place of high school in the work on small and protective crafts in the light of that message. We are happy to get to grips with the work on high school messages and to secure these schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4402	It is important to recognise craftsmanship and traditions related to craftsmanship. If we are to be able to maintain a level playing field with cultural heritage and traditions, we need to give priority to competence and competence. Today, fires and individual schools carry our cultural heritage. Schools offering traditional and craft subjects ensure the dissemination of historical competences, expertise and skills. The management of historical buildings with interior and exterior, historical textiles and craft depends on the fact that the competence for restoration and construction does not disappear, but is continued and further developed. See for yourself a Norway without Viking ships or without stammering churches, just telling you about them. It would have been a less rich Norway. Hjerleid crafts school at Dovre, Østfold Furniture carpenters school in Mysen and the Plus school in Fredrikstad are private traditional and crafts schools that have built up a top competence in various crafts disciplines over the years. As a result, they have also become carriers and intermediaries of national cultural heritage. The three schools have a total of 208 pupils, adults as a youth, in the 2020/2021 school year. The teaching and schooling places at these schools are essential for Norway to fulfil its obligations under the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of the Intangible Cultural Heritage. Maintaining an offer in public secondary schools has been challenging for many years. The county councils have made offers in small, protective crafts because of low search. At the same time, the need for competence is high, both in the management of cultural memories and in craft enterprises that undertake tasks where this competence is needed. Often it is adults with or without formal craft training who want such training as continuing training. Many of these are adults without the right to secondary education, since they have either a degree or a degree qualification from before. They provide lower grants than youth in youth law. There are also no additional grants for investment in equipment for the start-up of new offers or upgrades of machinery, equipment and premises. With a small professional environment, unforeseeable finances provide unsustainable employment and employment for teachers. Schools depend to a large extent on getting money from foundations, gifts and the like for investment. This is unpredictable. The fact is that existing education services are being run on good terms. If we combine the value of competence with the political ambition of lifelong learning, the cultural heritage schools should be a priority. With the ongoing revision of curricula and new information on higher education on the road, it is also an independent point to ensure the conditions of tradition and crafts to carry the cultural heritage safely and well into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4417	There is an overall committee which is concerned about the provision of training in the traditional and craft trades sector. That we could not then agree on the proposals that emerge in this matter is a mystery to me. The competence of skilled workers in these subjects is very important for the preservation of cultural memories and the cultural heritage of these crafts. The provision of education in these subjects is an important contribution today if Norway is to live up to the commitments we have made through the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of the Immaterial Cultural Heritage. The issues for small and vulnerable subjects are complex in terms of content, structure and organisation. Tradition crafts have different characteristics and are organised in many different ways, and the image of the actor is complex and sometimes unwieldy. Over time, it has proved very difficult to secure these subjects through the ordinary secondary services of the county councils, and therefore there are private actors who have undertaken a large part of the task of continuing these training services. Despite the challenges that have been raised a number of times, both politically and by actors in education, cultural memory protection and business, sustainable solutions for the small cultural and traditional craft industries remain to be found. We are concerned that, if new schemes are not set up to provide cultural heritage for the immediate future, these offers and professionals that are currently holding up education will disappear before solutions are established. A cultural nation such as Norway must have an ambition that these subjects will have sustainable and robust framework conditions so that the nation can discharge its obligations to manage and continue the intangible cultural heritage. We believe that it is urgent to find a solution to secure small crafts through increased recruitment, and to ensure the schools that provide such training, a predictable and sustainable economy. Finally, I would like to refer to the hearing opinion of the Forum for Artistic Education, which I very much agree with. The Forum recommends that the Stortinget commission a comprehensive study on how schools and educational services in the field of arts, culture and crafts should be carried out in the best possible way. The Forum for Artistic Education refers to the solutions adopted by the Swedish Parliament in Sweden for corresponding societal needs. Our view is that in Norway we have a lot to pick up from studying the Swedish model, and I hope the minister has listened to this recording.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4432	Tradition and crafts are central to ensuring important professional skills for the future and to safeguarding both intangible cultural heritage and cultural memories. Education in the craft sector is essential for Norway to comply with the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of Both Intangible and Material Cultural Heritage. Last June, the Cultural Environment Communication was adopted in Stortinget. This communication stressed the importance of developing skills and capacity to keep up with our material cultural taxes. Free schools also have an important role to play in managing these subjects for the future. That's why we recognise that Hjerleid Crafts School at Dovre, the Furniture Sewing School in Mysen and the Plus School in Fredrikstad are very important in the work on crafts and are incredibly important to take care of the Norwegian cultural heritage. In the Granavolden platform, the government states that it will further develop mechanisms that will motivate the preservation of both tangible and intangible cultural heritage and the maintenance of new findings, so that future generations will also enjoy important cultural memories and environments. It's a line this government goes on. The Left supports the State Council’s opinion on the complex issues related to this area. A Joint Education and Research Committee has asked the Government to look into schemes designed to safeguard and strengthen the life base and predictability of these schools, and whether such schemes can also be assessed, where appropriate, in consultation with the Ministry of Culture. The government has had a lot of work to do, and we're going to keep doing that. There were thousands more applicants for vocational education than for study specialisation for the year 2021–2022. It is pleasant and important for all recruitment to trades with craftsmanship as a basis. I look forward to the government submitting a notice of secondary education this spring, and believe it would be natural to see the post-secondary schools in the work on small and protective crafts in the light of that message. The left also believes that it is therefore natural that the issues raised in the proposal should be included in the work on the notification of high-level schools. Only in this way will we be able to receive good and robust treatment and ensure the best possible care and development of the traditional and craft trades.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4449	In Norway, there is both a political and a cultural-historical desire to take care of the traditional and craft trades. Therefore, in 2006 the Storting ratified the UNESCO Convention for the Protection of Immaterial Cultural Heritage. For the Christian People's Party, this is an important part of our cultural heritage. By contributing to knowledge and raising awareness of just this part of our heritage, we are facilitating the protection and better care of it. I want to pay tribute to the proposers to help raise awareness of the traditional and craft trades, which are part of our Norwegian cultural heritage. The Christian People's Party shares the concern of the proposers for the provision of training in traditional and craft trades and agrees that the competence of professionals in these fields is very important for the preservation of cultural memories and the cultural heritage they represent. The provision of education in these subjects is an important contribution today if Norway is to be able to live up to the commitments we have made through the ratification of the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of the Immaterial Cultural Heritage. At Granavolden, this government and the Progress Party agreed to further develop mechanisms that motivate the preservation of both tangible and intangible cultural heritage, so that future generations will also enjoy important cultural memories and cultural environments. This is an agreement which also obliges the maintenance of the traditional and craft trades. That is why we were also very clear about this in the setting up of the State budget for 2021, where we asked the government to take a closer look at the arrangements to be followed by the proposers here. We asked the government, among others. to look at schemes such as: intake of adult rights, basic funding and rights in the Loan Fund, which strengthens the operating base and enhances predictability at these schools. The Committee on Family Affairs and Culture did the same in its position as the State budget for 2021. It was asked that the government assess possible support schemes in order to secure the future of these crafts. Those who wait for something good, don't wait in vain, it's called. In this case, I believe that the government in this spring's communication on higher education will propose measures and make assessments relating to precisely caring for the traditional and craft trades of the future. I believe that through this communication, we will be able to ensure a sustainable and robust framework for precisely safeguarding this important part of our cultural heritage in Norwegian school in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4462	Tradition and craft trades are important, both by virtue of being traditional bearers of old craftsmanship techniques, methods and use of materials, and because they provide competences that enable us to maintain and manage our common cultural heritage in a sound manner. That is why my goal is to provide a good framework for the traditional and craft trades. Norway has acceded to the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of the Immaterial Cultural Heritage. It's an important recognition of the responsibility we have for these subjects. The Norwegian Institute of Crafts at Maihaugen has a central role in the follow-up to this Convention. They are responsible, inter alia, for advising the education authorities on the subjects which should have protective status and thereby qualify for additional apprenticeship grants. They shall also have an overview of the educational establishments involved and provide information to students and the public on the training opportunities. In the case of subject-matter subject to protection, apprentices are also awarded grants for the value creation part of the enterprise, as opposed to ordinary subjects. The Ministry of Knowledge is now implementing the innovation. This means that we have had a review of the supply structure and that all curricula for primary and secondary education have been renewed. As a result of the renewal of the profession, the number of training programmes extended and four new training programmes were introduced in the autumn of 2020. One of them was the training programme craftsmanship, design and product development. This profession leads to 47 different professions and competences. 41 of them are apprenticeships which are defined as protective and qualify for additional apprenticeship grants. The professional range is large and accommodates subjects such as boat builder, bunadsnam and watchmaker. In many of the subjects there are only one to two apprentices, and in some subjects there is no activity at all. It also illustrates the diversity of subjects and the challenges of a coherent organisation of these subjects. They are also organized in very different ways, both in different municipalities and according to the traditions of the subjects. The free schools, which have been mentioned by several in this debate, are also very important actors. They have built up a great deal of expertise within their disciplines and are key players in traditional crafts. These schools receive grants in line with other independent secondary schools, and there are currently no plans to propose amendments to § 6-1 of the Law regulating the state grant. As the Committee points out, most start training in protective subjects, adults. There are many who already have a diploma, while others want to turn their hobby into a living. It may be easier for an existing craftsman to create a living by specialising in a protective profession and thus having more legs to stand on. This means that we also need to look at the offers in a lifelong learning perspective. The problems for small and protective subjects are very complex, and I have the ambition that these subjects will have durable and robust framework conditions. I will come back to that in message to the Stortinget about high school this spring, and then it will also be natural to discuss the place of high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4477	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4483	I must first thank the Council of State for sharing her commitment to the matter, and it seems as if she has got involved in the matter and how difficult it is, quite simply, for many of these fields. Then, of course, the question is whether we are able to get together on concrete measures to take care of these for the future, because this is also a field we have been talking about for many years. The Council of State warns that the high-level report on higher education will address the issues raised in the proposal for a representative that we have promoted from the Centre Party. Then I wonder if we can expect a solution for the traditional subjects in general, and for these three cultural heritage schools at Hjerleid, in Mysen and in Fredrikstad in particular?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4490	Now it's probably not cute to reveal what a big message says before it comes, so I'm not going to do that either. But it's clear that I think it's a natural place to address these issues, and that we're also discussing it further. For these subjects have quite complex challenges, and it is also important to remember that these subjects are quite different. I also think we have to take into account that the challenges of these subjects cannot be solved in the knowledge sector alone; we also have to play with, among other things. business. For example, if these subjects are to survive, we must. help to live by having those subjects, and then we must also ensure that there are those who are willing to pay for the services that can be provided by the people taking this training. That is why I think it is rather demanding to give simple answers to this, both in a debate here now and in a big message which is primarily about the structure of higher education. But at least there we'll deal with this subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4497	I thank you for your answer. The center party's commitment to this game is based on the schools, and that's also what I was trying to ask about. It is clear that there are many things that affect traditional crafts and cultural heritage that we could discuss, but today there are mainly these schools and professional environments around which we are concerned. The Council of State also gives in the letter of response to the proposal of the Committee expectations about a pilot project on centres of excellence, and I wonder when this will start.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4504	With regard to these schools that the representative raises, both in his post and in the proposal, they are now funded under the Law §6-1, in the same way as other independent schools, and we do not have concrete plans to change the funding of those schools now. Obviously, there is something you can look at if you want to give them a different framework to what they have today, and have a different type of funding model than what you have set up today. Of course, there is room for all parties on the Stortinget to look further. And as I said, when it comes to predicting what's going to happen in the message, I'm a little bit careful to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4511	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4518	It is important to safeguard the intangible cultural heritage that Norway has undertaken to preserve through the UNESCO Convention on Protection. It's knowledge that's hand-cuffed. It doesn't just have room in your head, it has to be taught with your hands. There are other things going on in these schools than what we might be familiar with in many other schools. This cultural heritage presupposes a professional environment in which knowledge is preserved, developed and maintained. It must live in the environment, and it must be taught away by those who have knowledge in their hands, who really can do this. These craftsmen are a cultural heritage in itself. Many of them are well up in the years. I've had the pleasure of following, among other things. the environment of Hjerleid over many years, which is built in Dovre and as the Dovre rapporteur. It is a unique environment that often cannot be compared to other schools. If you don't do anything now, you can get a serious challenge. Because that has not been lacking in good intentions. There have been visits from top to bottom – if you want to call it – from those who work on the matter themselves, from the queen and from us who come from the Stortinget. But something has to be done. You're expected to do something right now. Crafts schools face both structural and economic challenges that make them consider the basis for further operations uncertain. In order to ensure the future of these crafts, it is essential that a predictable and satisfactory economy be established. It is important to define and define cultural heritage schools and heritage in order to ensure the professional environments and the unique competences of the various schools that offer them. These schools don't fit into the known A4 model. That may be why, despite all the good intentions the state has had, it has not managed to give them the place they deserve. They must have basic funding at the bottom. The craft represented by the small cultural and traditional craftsmanship is often a question of maturation. It is often too early for high school students to gain interest in this kind of specialisation. It is only after an ordinary letter of formal notice that the interest to specialise in this type of craft is announced. Now is the time for "to look at" over. This isn't so complicated, it's just unique and a little bit different. It's about looking outside the box before it's too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4535	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4553	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4560	The Committee has examined again a draft representative from the bulk representative, Mr Moxnes and the Red Party, this time to prevent property speculation in the nursery sector. The majority of the Committee points out that NOU 2020: 13, Private actors in the welfare country, are out for public consultation. The majority therefore consider that it is not appropriate to advance this consultation by launching a possible follow-up to the sample proposals already. In view of this, the majority supports the decision not to adopt the document.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4569	The welfare service committee has not long since provided its position and has given us new and such serious knowledge of developments in the kindergarten sector. Since 2010, and the figures are well up to 2018, there has been an increase in so-called commercial kindergartens of 34 pst. and a decrease of 71 pst. of the ideal kindergartens. The innovation that the right-hand side has talked about has been replaced by a purchase. The shortage has now been replaced by monopolistic conditions, and to refer to former Minister of Knowledge Jan Tore Sanner: an operator with an out-of-date code that should have been replaced a long time ago. Property speculation is one of the loopholes where the out-of-date code is simply not good enough. Let me do a couple of examples. 89 Norlandia Kindergartenbygg, sold to an Australian purchase fund for 3 billion. kr 17 Spark kindergarten building, sold to a Swedish purchase fund for 350 million. kr 138 The teaching workshop children's gardening, sold to a Swedish purchase fund for 4.25 billion. Norwegian Krone The main arguments of the opponents are that it is so difficult, almost impossible, to get this into a law – it's kind of hard to do something about it. The type of argument is now revealed. The Welfare Service Committee has given us a phase and points the way to how laws, regulations and regulations can work to provide up-to-date legislation and close the loopholes that exist. The serious thing today is that the government once again abdicates. The dirtholes should not be sealed. The out-of-date legislation has now been well enough. The big loser today is the kindergarten, for this government lets the owners run away – sell – with large sums of money that was set off and should have been set aside to ensure better kindergartens for the children. It won't be like that. With that, I will address the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4592	Then the representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4597	I'm glad we're getting some basic things clear today. One is that Norwegian municipalities can initially be free to transfer municipal property to a kindergarten activity run by private individuals and that any gain from it will not constitute State aid that is illegal. In other words, too much of this Document 8 proposal is not available. Then I have to say that I am a little surprised at the presentation of the welfare service committee. Because there was one thing that was clear when one presented the NOU, it was that it is in conflict with many of the claims that have come from many of the parties in this room for a longer time. And the suggestions from the sample are not near the proposals that have come from Red and SV and partly from the Workers' Party in recent years. It is quite right that municipalities, after the nursery agreement, built up their capacity considerably, and that some municipalities chose to provide cheaper land and loans from the House Bank to these actors. When they then very many years later sold these kindergartens and the plots on, there are some who have benefited from it. As the head of the welfare service committee said, it might well be, if you went back to that time, that those behind the kindergarten agreement would do something different than you did. But when that is said, there is nothing to suggest that today it is very lucrative to operate private kindergartens, or that there is property speculation, as the representative Tvedt Solberg came along with. On the contrary, private kindergartens do not receive more in grants than municipal ones. The number of employees and educators is required. All of them, most of them have fixed rates of pension and pay, and so there's a lot of them going on with deficits. In other words, there is nothing to suggest that you have to tighten in here in such a way that you actually put the hook on the door for very many private kindergartens with which the children are satisfied. I think it's interesting that these are aspects of the welfare service committee report that you don't mention. In contrast to what has been claimed, the sample does not find that private operators who contribute to welfare have super-profits. Nor can the committee conclude that employees have lower pay and working conditions than those of government in the same sector. The most important thing for us in the Right is that older people, parents and children who use welfare services in general are satisfied, that quality is good, and that the public takes the bill — not who provides the services. At the same time, we are concerned about and demand that private actors have transparency about economics and ownership, good quality and good working conditions. It is therefore interesting that the Welfare Service Committee has made several proposals, including in the kindergarten sector, on how to ensure such transparency, and I am pleased that it is now being consulted. One of the proposals and one of the measures has already been put in place, namely national financial supervision. However, making demands is not the same as prohibiting private operators from providing good welfare services or prohibiting them from profiting after risking their own money and also risking a deficit. I would say that Norway's welfare community is based on good cooperation with private and public actors, and the kindergarten sector is a very good example of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4608	We're all working together to have good kindergartens for our kids. Sometimes when I hear babysitting debates in Stortinget, I think that our kids may not be served with a debate where we choose to make the trenches even wider and even bigger than they have been. I sometimes think that the debates on kindergarten are going to be a little bit like that. Historically, we must recognise the fact that today we have full child care coverage thanks to half private and half municipal kindergartens, and that kindergarten and private kindergartens were crucial for coverage and development throughout the country. Then it's demanding that it be speculated in the kindergarten sector and in welfare services, and it's a responsibility for private kindergartens to be serious. It is also a fact that today’s funding system is a major challenge, both for many municipalities and for individual kindergartens. There are big differences, and it's a difficult system. I don't think it's quite right that you have had a severe decline in the ideal kindergartens. No, the ideal kindergartens, owned by foundations and associations, are at a relatively stable level. It is the small private limited liability companies that have gone down. They're private, and they're commercial, but they're small. Then you have the big commercials, which have grown at the expense of the small privates. The center party thinks that the small private ones are worth taking care of. They shall not be pushed into large commercial groups, nor into the ideal basket, because they are not. They're small private kindergartens, neither more nor less. The centre party does not support the two proposals presented here today, and the reason for this is that we are now waiting for an overall review. The recommendations of the sample are now being consulted, and a sample has also been set up to go through the financing of private kindergartens – although we have waited a very long time for that, and now we have to wait even longer. But it is necessary to see the whole before you decide what to do in this area. It is also a moment to take into account that already today the municipalities have quite great opportunities to clause in sales contracts, both pre-purchase rights, the right to repurchase and also the return of values to the municipalities if they so wish. So there are possibilities for today for the municipalities that want it. The central party chooses not to vote for the proposals, and the main reason for this is that we want to assess the different regulations in a whole. We see the worrying aspects, but we also see the need to take care of a diverse kindergarten sector, where there is room for both large and small, and where there is room for both municipal, non-profit and private.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4627	There is no doubt that some commercial owners in the nursery sector have taken large amounts from kindergartens. An example of this was revealed in a case in Dagbladet just before Christmas, about Tryke Barnehager, which shows that the company has 87 subsidiaries that are separated from kindergarten as purely rental companies. This resulted in 36 million in 2019. kr in profit. Through this kind of creative corporate structure, it is possible to hide cash flows from kindergartens to private fortunes. We in SV are concerned about the increasing commercialisation of the kindergarten sector, which weakens the diversity of kindergartens and can challenge the confidence that community money will be used in line with its purpose. It is necessary to have a law to ensure that government grants for nursery activities are granted to this end and not for the benefit of private individuals. Data from the welfare service range show that the number of commercial kindergartens has increased by 34 pst. in the period 2010-2018, while the number of non-profit kindergartens has decreased by 71 pst. This development threatens the diversity of the sector – when a handful of large players are increasingly given control over private kindergartens, while the proportion of non-profits is falling sharply. In order to ensure real diversity in the kindergarten sector, action is urgently needed. Parents, and society for the rest, must be able to be sure that kindergartens are operated as best for the long term, not as profitable for owners in the short term. And I would like to remind the Stortinget that we have passed a kindergarten law that states that government grants and parental payments are to benefit the children in kindergarten. It is in the sale of kindergartens and properties that the large money is in, and we are happy that Red's proposal addresses this. In recent years, a number of kindergarten chains have separated their properties from their own property companies from which the nursery has to rent out the nursery. Dissemination of the properties of kindergartens into own companies has also facilitated the sale of at least 238 nursery buildings by parent companies to non-resident purchasing funds in recent years, with subsequent long-term contracts for the rental of kindergartens to be rebuilt. The government grant and parental benefit shall be used for kindergartens and not for private profit. We in SV believe that the law needs to be amended to prevent government grants and parental payments from going to profit. That's why I'm saying again, it's the children who are going to benefit from the nursery.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4640	The left is concerned that all children should have a good start and equal opportunities to move forward in life. Kindergarten is an important part of the child’s growth. Therefore, the quality of kindergarten is so incredibly important. Many steps have been taken to ensure such good quality. We have a framework plan for kindergartens. Large resources are used to promote quality and competence. The government strengthens the commitment to competence in special pedagogics and inclusive practices. We have gained new content in the Children's Homes Act with requirements for quality, content and organisation, demands for action against bullying, demands for pedagogical competence, and a standard of manning to support qualitative development. The kindergarten sector has developed a lot in the last ten years. The government has started work on modernising the legislation, and this work has also called for better financial supervision. The government has established a new national supervision for private kindergartens, and it will ensure more transparency and better control of the benefits of parental and government grants to children. All of this supports the good development of Norwegian kindergartens, in diversity, in educational quality, in social cohesion and in growing-up conditions in general. We want to ensure a diversity of kindergarten services. The most important thing for the Left is that kids get a good kindergarten offer, not if it's run by private or public. Following the 2003 kindergarten agreement, municipalities had to build up considerably more capacity. Some municipalities chose to sell properties at a lower price than market prices to give incentives to private individuals to build kindergartens. This was one of several tools that was used to speed up development. The municipalities themselves can decide which agreements they want to enter into, and what conditions they want to impose, for example: in the case of such sales of property. It also means that municipalities are responsible for following up any breaches of the agreements they have with private operators. The NOU with the recommendations of the Welfare Service Committee has been consulted, and I am confident that the Minister of Knowledge will follow up the welfare service committee and their proposals addressed to private kindergartens in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4655	The kindergarten sector has seen significant growth since the 2003 orphanage agreement. The private kindergartens responded to a population demand for multiple kindergartens and have become a central part of the sector in terms of both quantity and quality. Today, therefore, we enjoy a wide variety of kindergartens, and this diversity is important for us to take care of – because it increases family freedom of choice and helps to contribute to good quality. One of the most important things a society can do is to help all children get a good start in life. Children shall be explored and guided in play and learning and shall have stable adults around them who have competence in children and understanding the needs of children. Therefore, it is so important that kindergartens have good and predictable framework conditions so that they can develop high quality in the supply. I understand the concern of the proposer, but I believe that both the newly created national supervision and the NOU on private welfare actors who are out at public consultation will provide us with important and useful information to look at how to address the pediatric problem for the future. We in the Christian People's Party are also concerned when figures from the same NOU show that the number of commercial kindergartens has increased in the period 2010-2018, while the number of non-profit kindergartens has decreased in the same period. This tells us that it's urgent to create good framework conditions, so that individual ideal kindergartens don't feel they're breathing in the neck of big commercial actors when the numbers turn red one or two years apart. We simply need to look for better mechanisms to ensure a room for action for the various owners in the sector in order to maintain good diversity. In particular, I would like to highlight the importance of protecting ideal ownership in the kindergarten sector, which appears to be vulnerable. This government has given clear signals on the Granavolden platform to ensure better conditions for non-profit organisations and for social entrepreneurs, enabling them to solve different social challenges in society. We also have a consensus on ensuring ideal actors freedom from state overgovernment, and good framework conditions that safeguard the specific nature of the sector. Among the ideals in the kindergarten sector, we have seen an increased pressure on buying, and we must therefore recognise that part of the sector is under pressure. I have great expectations for the government's ongoing work to follow up proposals for changes to the Kindergarten Act and the further work related to the financing of private kindergartens, in particular on how to take care of the small, ideal kindergartens and thus also take care of a diverse sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4673	Properties are great values for the commercial kindergarten companies. Commercial groups buy up individual kindergartens, and they have grown up large in the nursery sector. The Welfare Service Committee writes: ‘There may be several reasons for the growth of group formations within private kindergartens. One important reason is that kindergarten is considered to be profitable.’ The commercial companies have taken large sums from the kindergarten sector through speculation with kindergarten property. In recent years child care properties, built on cheap municipal plots, have been sold to international funds for billions. That's the facts. When someone is willing to pay more than fair value for assets, less the debt they acquire, that means they are willing to pay for the access to a cash flow. So it's a signal that the buyer pays for access to profit funded by the taxpayers. Many kindergarten owners separate the nursery properties of a separate company. Then the building can be sold, for example. to an international purchasing fund with a lease. If the rental contract is long-term, the value of the construction will also be related to the value of the contract and not to the physical value of the construction. The Welfare Service Committee writes: «In the circumstances, such a lease may be contrary to the Shares Act, the Tax Act and other special laws: [[e.g. kindergarten law]] It's serious. Thus, despite the risk of illegal public support, the majority of the Storting will allow them to continue with exactly the same practice without even assessing it. Red has chosen to promote this proposal, because all the time the government chooses not to do anything with potentially illegal public support to commercial companies, we risk even more money disappearing in that way. There is nothing to wait for, we need to know if gains from the sale of orphanage property are considered illegal public support for commercial property activities. In this case, the financial interests of commercial operators stand up against the interests of the Community. It is a pity that the government parties, together with the Progress Party and the Centre Party, choose to risk the disappearance of Community funds, even being illegal public support, without being able to assess whether it is the case or not. It worries me that the bulk of the population trusts commercial operators blindly and closes their eyes to warnings and facts. But it's not too late to turn around, we can do as the welfare service committee asks us to do. Finally, for information, the hearing period for the NOU expired last week, so it's out.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4696	Following the 2003 kindergarten agreement, municipalities had to build up considerably more capacity to offer nursery facilities to all those who wanted it. At that time, some municipalities chose to sell properties at a lower price than the market price in order to provide incentives for private individuals to build kindergartens. This was one of several instruments used to speed up development. Today, the sector is almost fully developed throughout the country, and, as more people have explained in the debate here, municipalities themselves can decide which agreements they want to conclude and what conditions they want to impose, for example. in the case of such sales of property. It also means that the municipalities are responsible for following up any breaches they may have of the agreements with private operators. The Welfare Service Committee delivered its report to the Minister for Food and Fisheries in December 2020. It has now been at a public hearing with a deadline of 15 March. One of the selection proposals is addressed to private kindergartens and concerns potentially illegal State aid. The selection recommends that consideration should be given to whether any gains attributable to the sale of property below market prices may be illegal under the EEA State Aid Code. In the light of the recent consultation and further follow-up to the report, I do not think it appropriate to pre-empt this issue here. I would nevertheless point to the general starting point for such an assessment. The EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, has previously stated that private kindergarten activities are not considered to be economic activity and that a financial advantage from public funds benefiting from the Bare Garden activity is not considered as financial aid under EEA law. This means that Norwegian municipalities are initially free to transfer municipal property free of charge to kindergarten activities run by private operators without prejudice to the support legislation. However, we know that several private orphanage companies operate both non-economic and real estate activities. General real estate activities are economic activities within the meaning of the EEA Code. As long as the economic advantage inherent in a transfer of property falls exclusively within the family business of the company, the EEA State aid rules will not apply. However, if the transfer of property benefits the ownership of the orphanage, e.g.: by profit on subsequent sales, there could be unlawful aid under EEA law. Another of the welfare services proposal is to clarify a time limit on financing obligations towards private kindergartens. The committee considers it important that municipalities have the economic means necessary to regulate the capacity of the entire nursery sector in their municipality. This proposal will also be considered and followed up with the rest of the report once the input of the hearing bodies has been assessed. In accordance with other responsible ministers, I will regularly assess the follow-up of the welfare service committee's investigation. The hearing period was as mentioned on 15 March, and we will now consider the hearings received. That is why I do not think it appropriate to speed up the discussion of this issue, as the proposer wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4715	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4720	The debate on kindergartens on the part of government parties is very often about excuses for not being able to get hold of and get a more up-to-date code and close the dirtholes that are. The majority, as many have been in the debate, have for many years been waiting for a new, comprehensive child care law. The process has been in progress for well over three years. There are three different government councils from the same government that have been responsible for this. The last time a major postponement came, it was the Council of State Melby who said that the government has a plan for a more comprehensive bill, but that one did not hit it in the spring of 2020 because of the coronary pandemic, and put it at risk in the autumn of 2020. We're still waiting. Will this government present a new, comprehensive law, as promised?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4725	Both during my time as the Council of State and also under former government councils, several proposals for changes have been made regarding the way we regulate private kindergartens, so this reality story of nothing happening, I don't think votes. Last year, we promoted changes such as: clarified the use of State aid in private kindergartens, as well as the establishment of state supervision. I believe that two important steps were taken to ensure that the money goes to the young people and a quality kindergarten offer. At the same time, I think we have to admit that this is an area that is quite complex. If we make changes, it has consequences for a lot of people, both the children who go to kindergarten, and those who run private kindergartens. It is important that we provide predictability in such a sector and that we carefully assess the benefits and disadvantages of different proposals. I also believe that the welfare service committee report is a very important basis for us, and we want to include elements from it in the work we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4730	The time is running out, and the time is ticking for this government. It's not many weeks you're wearing if you have an ambition to bring forward a new, comprehensive children's home law. That's my question to the Council of State: does this government still have the same ambition to present a comprehensive bill? On the last postponement, the State Secretary said that the knowledge base shows that there is a need to develop more timely legislation, and one wants to spend more time discussing a comprehensive legislative proposal with the Stortinget. I am fully aware of the small changes we made last year, but then the Council of State clarified that there were small issues and that there was going to be a comprehensive bill. Can the Council of State give a clear answer as to whether there will be an overall legislative proposal before the summer and during this majority period?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4735	I intend to sit for a long time as a minister of knowledge, so I don't know how bad time we have. The point of this is that this government has recognised that there are parts of the legislation that are out of date, that need to be renewed, and we have worked on that quite continuously. What has been the challenge is that when we have made some consultation proposals, as we have done, the consultation rounds have revealed that there have been challenges with those proposals. We have promoted, for example: a proposal to consult on the requirement that all kindergartens should be independent legal entities, in order to ensure even better transparency, so that we know what all the money goes to. The challenge with such a proposal was to impose more bureaucracy and more costs related to that type of activity for private kindergartens. That's why we've spent time exploring alternatives to that, to make sure that we can make laws and rules that give us the transparency we need, but that don't at the same time impose unnecessary bureaucracy on the actors. In fact, I think it's pretty important that we take the time to make those kind of thorough assessments, so that we create a code that can keep up with time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4740	Here we're probably very disagreeable, because the clock is very ticking for this government when one has not yet managed to submit a new bill. I hear from the Council of State that it is not an ambition for the government. Perhaps there will be something after the election and we will once again confirm that there will be a new postponement for new kindergarten law. It is serious, all the time the loopholes in the law are allowed to continue to function, and the out-of-date legislation is still allowed to be there. I am interested in hearing a little more clearly from the Council of State what is preventing a new bill. We are talking about a legislative proposal, not the funding system and all the other things. In the spring of 2020, the Council of State said that it was the investigation around its own legal entities that was difficult. It has now been a year to work with. Is there still a legal entity of its own that works to investigate? Is there any other problem the government has now encountered that makes this take so long, or is it the will it stands on?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4747	As I said in my previous answer, we have been busy looking at alternatives to demanding independent legal entities, to prevent the unnecessary red tape of the kindergarten sector. This means that we have had to make completely new proposals from the bottom up, and we also need to be sure how they will work if this is to be used in the kindergarten sector. It's the kind of work that takes time. I can promise the representative we'll promote it as soon as it's ready. But at the same time, I am somewhat uncertain as to what types of dirthole in the regulatory representative are talking about. I believe that we basically have a code that works well. The establishment of state supervision is important because we have a whole new structure on how private kindergartens are owned, which makes it impossible for individual municipalities to follow the flows of money as well as we want. I believe that the grips that have been taken – among others. It was important to establish state, national supervision – is one of the most important things we can do to ensure that what we all agree on is that the money will benefit the young.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4752	The Welfare Service Committee recommends that, in the case of any gain attributable to the sale of property below market prices, it should be assessed whether this could result from unlawfully granted State aid. Then I hear that the minister in his post will not say his or her opinion on this. I think it is strange that we have a minister who cannot be clear on this. So I'm going to ask you something a little bit more specific. The newspaper recently published a case on Safe Barnhager, which shows that the company has 87 subsidiaries that are separated from kindergarten and that are purely rental companies. This resulted in a surplus of 36 million in 2019. kr. Through this kind of creative corporate structure, it is possible to hide cash flows from kindergartens to private fortunes. It's been revealed in the past how the Adolfsen brothers have made millions to sell properties to Australian buying funds. Does the Minister really not share the concern that money from Norwegian commercial kindergartens does not go to kindergartens at all but to private profit?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4761	That's exactly why we're now spending quite a lot of money setting up state supervision. First of all, we have seen that there have been very few municipalities that have given priority to supervising private kindergartens, and in addition, we know that it is very difficult for them to supervise the large chains, because they simply don't have any insight into the figures they need in order to have the opportunity to ignore the use of money. So I believe that what we are now building up and establishing, a state supervision to ensure that the money we grant to kindergarten is going to benefit the children, is the most important thing we can do to avoid unfortunate speculation and that the money is not being spent as they should.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4767	After all, there will be a natural follow-up question as to whether national supervision is large enough. When we know how big these chains are, and when we know how much time some municipalities have spent revealing such speculations, I wonder if there is a supervision in Molde, with so few employees, will be able to get an overview of the entire sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4772	Our assessment is that that supervision will be large enough to do that job, but it is clear that there will be something we will have to consider afterwards. It is also important to say that we are already overseeing health schools, i.e. schools receiving public money, and it will be significant synergies to be able to get through the work we are now also going to do with the state supervision of kindergartens. We're now in a phase where we're building up supervision, and hopefully it'll come into operation if not too long. Then, as I said, we have to assess whether it needs to be further strengthened, or whether there is enough of the plans we have now taken on board.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4777	I registered that the state council said we have a code that works well. It is interesting that the former Minister of Knowledge said that we have an out-of-date code. Is it the case that the Left Council disagrees with its predecessor from the Right on the Code? My concrete questions are: Does the Council of State believe that it is a desirable direction for the kindergarten sector that those who run commercial kindergartens become among Norway's all, the richest – several of them on the Capital list of Norway's 400 richest? Is it a desirable development that international purchasing funds buy into the Norwegian nursery sector? Does the Council of State think that buying up in the nursery sector is because of the best interests of children?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4784	In fact, it is possible to believe that a regulation works essentially well even if there are some parts of the legislation that are out of date, and that is what I think. I am quite sure that I agree with the former Minister of Knowledge too. That is why it is important that we update the legislation and ensure that we have a regulation that captures precisely the structures that the representative is talking about, because it is obvious that the legislation we have today has not taken into account the developments we have seen in the kindergarten sector, and which I think are really very few foresaw in 2003, when we got the kindergarten agreement. I agree with all those in this debate who have raised the need for diversity in the kindergarten sector. I think it's important that we have more owners. I believe it is important that we, as the representative Arnstad has lifted up, have quite ordinary, private, small owners who own kindergartens. I also believe that the ideals are important and that we have a great diversity. What I am concerned about is that we have to make sure that the money benefits the children, and that we make clear demands for quality no matter who operates – whether it is a municipality, whether it is a voluntary organisation, or whether it is a corporation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4793	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4812	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4819	I have had the pleasure of being the rapporteur on this matter, which concerns the re-establishment of the former High School in Nesna. Since the Board of Directors of Nord University decided in the spring of 2019 to close the Nesna study site, Stortinget has dealt with two issues relating to the termination of teacher training at Nesna. The Committee has examined a proposal for a representative on decentralised higher education for quality, well-being and sustainable societies. In addition, Stortinget has discussed a proposal that State Building should not sell the buildings at the Nesna study site. On the occasion of the case, the Committee has stressed the importance and need for decentralised education, and in this context will refer both to the district industry committee, which provided its investigation and called for a more decentralised education, and the demographic committee, which in its report concluded immediately. Furthermore, I leave it up to the parties to make their comments on the occasion of the matter. I would like to comment on some of the SV's views on the matter. The closure of Campus Nesna comes in a situation where we have a marked shortage of teachers, both nationally and – not least – regionally. It is well documented that the training of teachers at Nesna has been crucial for recruiting teachers to the municipalities of Helgeland, but also to the whole of Nordland. The decision is a serious blow to the bow for the ability of district councils to acquire qualified teachers and nurses. The lack of teachers and nurses affects local communities and the basic welfare needs of people. Few want to live in a place where health services and schools are run by unskilled people. And let me be perfectly clear: SV wants a re-establishment of the former college in Nesna as a fully-fledged higher education institution. The closure of Campus Nesna is a breach of what was promised by the structural reform, that institutions should be strengthened, so that the places of study should not be laid down. There is good reason to be concerned that the national and state governance of the education structure in Norway has now been transferred to the boards of universities and educational institutions instead of this being left to a national superior body. If the closure of Campus Nesna remains, I'm afraid that this is just the first domino piece, and that more places of study around the country are going to suffer the same fate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4836	The representative would make some suggestions, wouldn't he?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4841	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4846	Then the representative of Mona Fagerås has drawn up the proposals that SV is behind with the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4851	The closure of teacher training at Nesna shows why there is a need for a new direction of education policy. Teacher shortages are high, especially in Northern Ireland. The working party believes that there should still be teacher training at Nesna. Local schools are important for skills, housing, workplaces and regional development. On campus Nesna recruited locally and resigned locally. The closure means more centralisation. We will pursue an active policy for teacher training at Nesna – and not just that: we will expand the education system to more and priority decentralised education. In this case, the red-green parties are united in a criticism of the government. We agree that there should still be teacher training at Nesna. The Central Party proposes the establishment of a new high school at Nesna, and the obligation for Nord University to maintain a study offer at Nesna until higher education is started. The three parties propose slightly different models of how to ensure teacher training at Nesna, but we want the same thing. What's certain is that a change of government is needed to make it happen. The Labour Party wants a reform of education where people live. We propose that in our new party programme, where decentralised education is a major act. In the autumn we presented new policies for higher education and research and the largest regional commitment since the 1970s. We want to stop the centralisation of the right and have a big stake in higher education in the districts. We want country-wide escalation plans and priority training in occupations where Norway lacks labour. It is necessary to make it easier to take more adult education and to give educational institutions a clearer responsibility for the region of which they are part. The Labour Party respects the principles of governance in the university and higher education sectors. The size shall not oblige the university boards to establish specific training courses. However, the Labour Party will amend the law to clarify national requirements for regional presence, to strengthen the decentralised offer and to use letters and development agreements more actively to give Norway the diversity of education that we need. The Labour Party will vote against proposal No. 1 because we do not want to lock the possibilities of Nesna and higher education to one university option. We are voting in favour of the No. 2 and 3 and we are voting against proposal No. 4 because the Storting is not going to instruct the university board.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4870	In education and research, free institutions are particularly important, and at a time when the Academy is under pressure from political forces in many parts of the world, it is particularly important that we call for institutional freedom, which is a prerequisite for genuine academic freedom. It may be worth noting that the University and Higher Education Act, which we have not dealt with so long ago, states that the board of an institution is responsible for both setting up a strategy and establishing organisation, and, not least, making resources available. There is, of course, a clear expectation that governments are also obliged to emphasise their regional responsibilities and to facilitate decentralised education and regional development, which was also one of the objectives of the structural reform for higher education. The Structural Communication also underlined that in the future it will be up to the institutions themselves and their board to assess what is an appropriate study location structure and what it involves. And there was a broad political consensus on the basics of the Structural Communication when it was addressed by the Stortinget. The Government Parties and the Advance Party have also, through their budgets, strengthened their efforts and contributed to more flexible training outside campus and flexible further training provision. The aim has been to facilitate access to higher education for more people without having to study regularly at a university or a university campus. This will be further followed up in the announced strategy for decentralised higher education. At the same time, we must respect the laws we adopt, and be careful not to assume the responsibilities of the governments of our institutions. It'll be a dangerous way to go. I mean the most important thing we can do now, is lift your eyes and look forward. You can get the impression that higher education has disappeared from Helgeland, but I'm noticing that Campus Helgeland at Mo in Rana, 7 miles from Nesna, has about 600 students and has offered offers to 1,000 students this year. They offer the same decentralised and collective teacher training and have a number of other training courses adapted to the needs of society and business in Helgeland. In total, this contributes to good and accessible education and a variety of services for the population of Helgeland. The question now has to be, when we get to where we are: how will the future be safeguarded if the red-green politicians start to change the structure of the big room? I do not think we should create false hopes, as I feel that the opposition is now really adding up in this matter. It is better to support the work now being done at Nesna for new activities in the community. The need for good educational opportunities and skills building is as important in Helgeland as in other parts of the country. I hope that you will be able to find new opportunities and models for it locally. The issue today and the opposition's proposal contribute to uncertainty and uncertainty about what will become the final offer on Helgeland, and I think the inhabitants of the region should notice that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4887	All of us from Northern Ireland have a relationship with the Nesna and the Nesna High School. I think I'd like to meet someone who's satisfied with what North University has done, and we all wish it re-established. Being dissatisfied with Nord University's decisions, and then in the same breath due to collapse and government, is completely wrong. It's North University that's gone down Campus Nesna, it's not the Stortinget or the government that's behind that decision. I am therefore given a passport to the Center Party, which once again is unable to deal with the facts and the applicable law. I know that the Central Party voted against the structural reform in its time, but they still have to deal with its adoption and all the other parties voted in favour. The central party knows that the proposals they are making today are being downgraded. The central party knows that there is no majority in this room to instruct the government to break the law. Nevertheless, they promote this type of proposal, probably simply to have something to point to in the election campaign. What I think is simply to abuse the Nesna case for its own potential gain, and it's to throw blues in the eyes of people. Last week, many of us attended a digital conference on Campus Nesna. There it was, among other things. an entry from Magnar Solbakk, formerly a member of the Board of Directors of the College of Nesna. He voted against the merger which resulted in the college becoming part of the North University. Based on what he told me, I've asked myself two questions: Has the University of Nesna made a mistake? Or was this planned by the then University of Nordland? These are questions I probably never get an answer to. I know that the minority in this room will continue to argue that the government and a large majority have accepted and abdicated in the liquidation of the Nesna, but this falls on their own unreasonableness. It's probably a sign that the minority has no relevant solution to how to re-establish higher education at Nesna. The minority does not point to the instructions or the authority the majority should have used to prevent these plans from taking place in the Nordic University. The red-green parties stand, as it says in the setting, assembled in a criticism of the government and again try the claim that Campus Nesna was closed by the government. The solution of the minority is to impose on the government a responsibility they cannot take and to which they are simply not entitled. You can't give universities the right of self-determination for one year, so to deprive them of it when North University does something we disagree with. It is necessary to take legal decisions, and this is also the case in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4908	Decentralized higher education is in the wind, at least in festive speeches. The question is what is actually happening around the country. Will there be more higher education closer to people? Not at Nesna. Nesna has become a symbolism that shows how wrong it can be when government policies work. We'll see about that. The government declares the disease to be that you suffer from being too small and too vulnerable. The drug is then to merge into larger units, to discharge political responsibilities, to provide poor economic and practical conditions, and to see what happens. In the government's eagerness after greater is better, we lose focus on what actually gives quality over quantity. The structural reform was part of and formed the basis for where we are today. Institutions are combined in clusters, and universities and fewer colleges are the result. The truth is that higher education institutions in Norway have never looked the way they do today. So the big question remains: what is the government's policy for higher education and the smaller places of study? The center party fears that more people will suffer the same fate as Nesna. That's exactly why it's so bad when the majority of people don't want to join and re-establish their college at Nesna. In the last year, the people's reaction to higher education has organised five educational policy conferences and brought together key professionals in education, research and societal debate from all over the country. They have also published the book «Kampen om campus Nesna». Locally, they look at the Nesna College, which bears a regional and district policy responsibility for recruiting teachers and nurses to the region and districts around it. If North Norway is to have the skills that people here need, it needs political action. In Northern Ireland, the situation has deteriorated following the closure of Campus Nesna. For 2019 and 2020, the applicant figures went to primary teacher education (5–10). Steps in the line down. The Education Association is concerned, the county council is concerned, the Regional Council is concerned, the municipalities are concerned – people are worried. According to KS, the next ten years need 141 trained teachers per year. The government is committed to strengthening the pooling of professional environments. But for Nesna, it means that the trade union community leaves Helgeland and either has to go to Bodø or Levanger. This means the government's favorite exercise, centralisation. If higher education is to become more accessible to most people, that is, close to people throughout the country, it needs political action. The representative of the Progress Party shall request the action of the Centre Party. Well – we want to change the funding system, assess quality drivers, assess work sharing and increase work relevance, to mention something.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4923	Access to higher education is very important, and the government has started work on a strategy for decentralised and flexible higher education to be presented this spring, and I really look forward to that. Good quality teacher training is a central task for the educational institutions and a central part of the infrastructure to form the knowledge society of the future in Norway, and the Nordic University has the competence to provide high-quality, flexible and accessible teacher training. The government has implemented several measures both to increase the status of the teaching profession and to increase the number of teachers to train and to work in the north, such as five-year master-level teacher training, enhanced admission requirements, new career paths for teachers, increased skills requirements, the introduction of teaching standards and the recruitment of more teachers in school, and arrangements have been put in place for the cancellation of student loans aimed at studies and work in North Norway. The government has supported recruitment measures for teacher training of over 40 million. kr in the last few years, of which 18 million. kr has gone to North Norway. Teacher training in North Norway, as elsewhere in the country, shall be research-based, practical and of high quality. Providing such training and conducting research and development at a high international level require sound professional environments. When the University of Nesna was merged with the University of Nordland and the University of Nord-Trøndelag – to Nord universitet – in 2016, the recruitment and graduation of students at the University of Nesna had unfortunately been failing for many years. In 2016, 22 students were graduated. The University and Higher Education Act states that the Board of Directors of an institution is responsible for laying down the strategy, defining the organisation and allocating resources within its area of responsibility. It is the Board of Nord Universities that has defined the organisation of the university, based on an overall reorganisation in order to obtain education and research of better quality, in line with the needs of society. We believe it would be unfortunate to dissociate the former college in Nesna from the North University and, in that case, govern and accredit it differently from other state universities and colleges. We believe that a special treatment of Nesna on the side of the structure for higher education and universities may have adverse consequences for confidence in the content and responsibilities of structural reform. As I said, I look forward to the government's strategy for decentralised and flexible higher education coming soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4943	The Nesna case has created a lot of commitment both in the higher education sector and politically, locally and nationally — and for good reason — because it is not always easy to maneuver in a landscape where the right of Nord University's board to determine the organisation of its university on the one hand and important local and regional considerations on the other. I'm not going to hide that we in the Christian People's Party have been critical of the closure of the education offer at Nesna, and we haven't changed our view of this. We are still concerned about the consequences of the closure of Campus Nesna and the transfer of education services at Helgeland. We believe it is important to invest in knowledge and to invest in the districts. At the same time, we also need to deal with an adopted governance structure which cannot be intervened without delay by the central authorities. Nord University has a right and an obligation to make its own assessments of where and how to organise its education provision. The Christian People's Party understands the concerns of the proposers and believes that we must have good educational institutions close to where people live, so that the local environment and regions are strengthened, and as a principle it is important to establish decentralised services where a person can combine good professional quality with important recruitment needs. We also see that there may be a risk that the termination of teacher training at Nesna can in the long term present challenges related to the recruitment of teachers in the country. At the same time, it must be said that in this case it has been decided to meet the educational needs of teachers and pre-school teachers elsewhere in Helgeland, namely in Mo i Rana. In this way, one might say that the university has taken responsibility for meeting the region’s needs in the region even after the decline of the Nesna offer. We can learn from the situation that arose around Nesna. That's why I'm very pleased that the government provided the government's management message for state universities and colleges last week. This proposes a number of changes, measures and principles for good governance of the UH sector. I believe this is a necessary and important message to ensure good governance for the future. If we keep our eyes fixed on the future, we also see a working life that demands more and more skills. We see an increasing need to rig our education system and make it more accessible to people across the country. Decentralised considerations and decentralised organisation and availability must be part of this. Is that what we've learned in these corona times, it's that the digital tools can be exploited to a much greater extent in educational context than we've done in the past. That is why the Christian People's Party is pleased that the government also started work on a strategy for decentralised and flexible education. This work will bring together good examples, build new competences and point the way forward in this area. We are looking forward to that in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4956	People have had to fight for both their local hospital and their education services in meeting with a centralisation policy that undermines the basis for people to live and live throughout the country. We need more teachers, and we need it to be possible to train as teachers all over the country. Red has always been to maintain decentralised teacher training at Nesna and nurse training in Lake Sandness. With the decline in the population of Helgeland, it is particularly serious that there will be fewer skilled jobs and training provision for young people who want to establish themselves there. Red will have living areas where people can live and work. Then we need a decentralised education offer that allows people who want to take education to continue living where they live. It is also important for those who want to take adult education. In this way, municipalities have access to professionals needed to ensure good welfare. There is no good reason not to use the premises and infrastructure available on Nesna and Helgeland. This is why we can reverse the development of centralisation and depopulation of districts. Red supports the fight for decentralised education in Helgeland. That is why we are going to vote for all the minority proposals today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4963	The University and Higher Education Act states that the Board of Directors of an institution is responsible for laying down the strategy, defining the organisation and disposing of the resources. In examining the report on structural reform, the majority of the church, education and research committee at that time, with the exception of the member of the Central Party, underlined: ‘In the future, as at present, it must also be up to the institutions themselves and their governments to assess the implications of an appropriate locational structure.’ The management message states that universities and colleges, and not a government office in Oslo, will continue to have that responsibility in the future. The boards are responsible for the appropriate organisation of the activities, including the places of study and the campers to offer which courses and professional environments. It is the governments of the institutions who know their own needs, limitations and opportunities and the regional needs best. Therefore, it makes sense for decisions to be taken locally rather than in Oslo. The Board of Directors of the Nordic University has shown that the closure of the Nesna study site is part of an overall reorganisation in order to obtain education and research of better quality in line with society’s needs. I think it would be unfortunate to separate the former college in Nesna from the North University and in that case govern and accredit it differently from other state universities and colleges. Nord universitet rents premises at Nesna by Statsbygd. Nord universitet has terminated the lease from 1 August 2022. The background to the termination is that the Board of Directors of Nord universitet has decided to terminate Nesna as a place of study from 2022. State Building has submitted the termination to the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation, which has agreed to the termination of the lease. Based on this, State Building will try to find a new State lessee or, alternatively, start a process of selling building and property. With a working life that demands more and more skills, it is essential that we rig our education system and make it more accessible to most people. I therefore share the ambition that education should be available to far more people than it is today, regardless of where people live or where they live. The government has therefore started work on a strategy for decentralised and flexible education. In addition, the government has announced a comprehensive review of the funding of higher education institutions and universities with the aim of having better incentives both for continuing education and for good access to education throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4981	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4986	We talk a lot about law and law, and you can refer to laws in order, but I should have liked the Council of State to have said very, very briefly what is actually the law in force, and what may have to be done to restore an education at Nesna.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e4991	The law applicable to higher education institutions and universities states that the institutions themselves determine the structure of their institutions. That means that as the Council of State, I can't go in and order the North University to set up a campus somewhere they have chosen not to have it. Then there are some other things that might have to happen. Private actors can go in and start a private college there. Then they need acknowledgment from NOKUT. If they get accreditation from NOKUT, they can apply for state aid, but that access has been narrowed, so it assumes that there is a special need for that training. Given what is happening in other parts of the region, it has not been given that such an application would be made. Alternatively, of course, Nord University can choose to restore Nesna itself if they want to, but as I understand it from their reasons, this is about being able to train more teachers and nurses and get more out of resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5000	Just a quick follow-up, because there's a lot going on at Nesna: there's been speculation about the establishment of high school, there's been discussions about re-establishing Nesna, they're now working together with the University of Tromsø. What the Council of State now also says a little about, is this with accreditation. Then I just wanted to ask cards: is it taking some time?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5005	Yes, it may take some time. It's not just to restore or start a college in Norway. Fortunately, we have quite strict quality requirements, which NOCUT then has to accept. So that's right -- no matter what the Big One has to decide, it'll take time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5010	Several municipalities in the districts are struggling to obtain qualified teachers, and the Education Association in the Nordic countries sees that this is becoming even more difficult for North Norway in general and the Nordic countries in particular. The sum of graduate teacher students, candidate numbers and the need for qualified teachers appears to be a non-exhaustive calculation. The value and characteristics of professional training and higher education are subject to government policy. Governments have announced a strategy for decentralised higher education. How does the Council of State view the strategy and closure of the Nesna study site — and today a refusal to restore the university — serve the recruitment of teachers and other competences in Helgeland, Northern and Northern Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5017	When it comes to the decision to drop the school at Nesna, it's not something I think serves or does nothing, it's a decision that Nord University itself has made. That being said, the reason given to Nord University – which is important to remember that there are a lot of campers in the region for which they are responsible – is that they have done so in order to train more teachers and more nurses. It's also the case that one of the reasons for that time was to drop the Nesna apprenticeship, were few applicants to study there. In other words, the way Nord University thinks, that is, by concentrating and thinking more about the professional environment, but also using the resources to educate more people, I think it's good for North Norway as a region. When it comes to the strategy for decentralised and flexible education, it's really about thinking a little bit bigger and a little bit different than just what the different universities have, but also how we can use both the study centres, other premises and digital solutions to educate more people in different stages of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5033	I thank you for the answer, but putting study places up against study centres is – yes, what to say – a very exciting comparison, because there is no doubt that a study site with physical students attached to an institution with an existing professor and research activity is something quite different. There were more students who had Nesna as their first choice than Levanger and Bodø after the merger, as I understand it, so this with recruiting students is a composite picture. However, I would like to address the fact that NIFU is following up the evaluation of the structural reform up to 2023, and preliminary findings were presented at the Education Conference with the origins of the people's reaction last week. There they see that objectives can conflict, for example. internationalisation and regionalisation. What makes the Council of State convinced that structural reform is also doing good for regionalisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5042	I'm convinced that having a structural reform that actually makes schools not necessarily shut down, but that institutions merge, for example. the fact that we now have NTNU on Gjøvik, in Ålesund and in Trondheim, contributes to stronger professional environments. To take it too: I'm not comparing a school with a study center, but I'm absolutely convinced that if you're going to have a real decentralised and flexible education that makes you and I, no matter where we live in the country, and regardless of whether we have family and obligations, be able to educate us, there must be facilities that are available, and digital solutions. But all this assumes that you have a pedagogical and proper structure made by good professionals in a strong professional environment. That is why I believe that the structural reform has been right, because it brings together the trade unions at the same time as it has a very decentralised structure. Norway has almost 60 campuses around the country only at universities and colleges, as well as very many colleges and, for example, universities. study centres and other premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5049	Fortunately, there are lines left, so I can try to fix up my previous line. One of the NCIPs that emerges is that geography is challenging, all the time professional organisation is a priority, and that precisely this can come into conflict with internationalisation and regionalisation. This is of course preliminary findings, but what they're also pointing at is that it's very difficult to say something about this giving better quality, because the structural reform interacts with a lot of other developments. But when we have the demographic committee and the district industry committee, which tells us something about the importance of the presence of higher education, what does the Council of State think when he hears that NIFU points out that geography can come in second rows, and that regionalisation cannot be prioritised when internationalisation is in first place?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5056	It's an important reminder that sometimes we have more goals that we have to weigh against each other. I think it's an interesting discussion. There is a reason why I have just delivered a management message to Stortinget, which is to get the discussion also in the committee in which the representative himself sits. But let me just remind you that North Norway has two universities. If you take North University, which is what we're talking about now, they have the right campus in Bodø, they have campus in Mo in Rana, Stokmarknes, Steinkjer, Levanger, Namsos, Stjørdal and Vesterålen. We just have universities, with all the environments that are, but then the many different campers have located around. But I mean – and this is back to what we're working on now – that we have to think bigger than that. It must also be possible for people to take training in flexible times and places, and to organise for example. more assembly-based en-route education. I think that's a better way to go than that everything should be discussed. The representative said that it's a symbol thing, but it's one teaching place that's been laid down, and a lot of people that's been maintained because you did it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5065	We're in a very special year. It'll graduate few teachers because of the master's degree. In an article in Khrono on 1 March this year, Rachel Rohde Næss, who is a senior lecturer at the University of Southeast Norway, says: ‘It’s a democratic problem that we get fewer teachers out this year. I'm very concerned about recruiting teachers to primary school. It is too scarce to meet the need, and this goes particularly beyond the districts, especially in Northern Norway where there are critical issues in some disciplines, especially Norwegian. Thus, there are considerable differences between parts of the country, and questions can be asked about whether the lack of qualified teachers does something about the principle of equal rights to education.’ Those are rather harsh words. Does the Minister see the challenges that lie in the fact that there will be great differences in the number of teachers and students who are graduates between north and south, and between east and west? What is the Minister's comment on what we can do to overcome the problem that will arise?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5077	Without prejudice to the fact that this first-lector from the University of South East Norway is quoted correctly, I deeply disagree with the fact that it is a democratic problem that we get a few fewer teachers out just one year because we have converted the teacher training into a five-year master. It's a perfectly logical consequence of the study being a year longer. It's not a democratic problem that there will be fewer than a year, because those who come out next year have a finished master's degree from a research-based practical teacher training. I think that's very good. The second is how we're going to get more teachers to North Norway. Firstly, several places of study are allocated to teacher training in North Norway. The fact that we have a structural reform has also been done from universities themselves to enable them to train more teachers as well as nurses. In addition, we have our own arrangements in the Loan Fund, which means that if you choose to work in North Norway, you will have to cancel more of the student loan. We have a lot of tools going on, but this is a very important part of what we're working on right now, just this decentralised and flexible education that will enable you to learn all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5084	Replicate cord shift complete. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5091	The college in Nesna, later Campus Nesna, has provided teachers for over 100 years to Helgeland in particular, but has also been important for Northland and the rest of the country. About 70 pst. of all the teachers in the Helgeland municipalities have been educated at Nesna. For kindergarten teachers, the proportion is about 90 pst. Of the candidates who have been trained in nursing training in Lake Sandness, more than 90 are. working in municipalities at Helgeland. Nesna is the great heart of the education on Helgeland. The whole county council of Nordland and the municipalities of Helgeland support the Central Party's proposal for a representative to be discussed today. The Grandfather's representative, Süttar, from Northern Ireland and the Progress Party, two hands in this case and says that if she had been able to do anything to rescue Nesna, she would have done it. The progress party could have done something. They could have agreed with us that would prevent the closure. During the 2019 election campaign, the representative, Søttar, pointed out that she was waiting for other parties to promote the Nesna case for the Control and Constitutional Committee, and she allowed people, teachers and not least students to believe that it was the solution to maintain higher education at Nesna. No, the truth is that the government parties and the Progress Party think it's all right to do higher education on the Helgeland coast. Centralisation has been the target number one for this government, specializing in both active and silent centralisation. Now, prior to the autumn's elections, the government has submitted yields in the form of the district economic survey, the district demography survey and the north area notification. When you read all the fine words about the importance of higher education for the districts, for business and for activity and living communities also in the north, it is reassuring to see the sea between word and action. By graduating from higher education at Nesna, we see how the government has shattered the image that is being tried through these investigations. It is important to point out that not only education is important in the districts but also educational institutions. Both NOU 2020: 15 and NOU 2020: 12 confirm this. The students stay and settle where they have studied. The trade-union environment is divided, there are only guest performances at Campus Helgeland in Rana.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5100	The district industry committee and the demographics committee state that the location of higher education institutions is important to strengthen the country-wide housing pattern. The impact of regional policy on the localisation of higher education is considerable. Helgeland is a region with 80,000 inhabitants, and Nesna has been a training policy centre in Helgeland for 100 years. Nesna is located in a practical and strategic location, allowing 50,000 people to reach Nesna through daily commuting. The localisation of higher education institutions has major ring-effects through a locally anchored professional environment. Through the University of Nesna, Helgeland had about 150 skilled workplaces located at the Nesna that have now disappeared. Nesna has been a training policy centre in Helgeland for 100 years, and Nesna will be a training policy centre in Helgeland for 100 years. The former University of Nesna has extensive experience in providing collective education in all regional centres of Helgeland, and the institution has established both IT training at Mo and nursing training at Helgeland. The institution also had collective education in other parts of the country. This experience and tradition may provide the basis for the re-establishment of an institution that has a national responsibility for developing cluster-based education from a district perspective. SV will stress the importance of the fact that current students who have been taken out on Campus Nesna will complete their education there, as promised. Finally: 60 pst. by those who train somewhere, take a job near the place. It shows how important it is that we have educational institutions across the country. For us in SV, it's important that we do what we can to make it happen. That is why we support today's proposal to re-establish Campus Nesna, and I am pleased that the red-green parties together are giving signals that this will happen after today's government has had to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5113	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 21st Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5130	Only briefly: this legislative proposal from the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation comes as a direct consequence of the change in the gender-specific job title ‘fylkesmann’ from 1 January 2021 to ‘government manager’. The new name applies both to the position and to the office, and the changes in this proposition are purely technical in nature, and no material changes have been made. As a consequence of the change of name from county to state administrator, there has to be a change in approx. 100 laws mentioning the word ‘fylkesmann’ and the county office. There is an overall committee behind the vote, and of course we support these consequential changes. But I would also like to point out that the central party in the setting has clarified that they are generally skeptical about introducing gender-neutral titles on posts and posts where the current name bears strong traditions. However, they support the changes in this specific case. With that, I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5139	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 22nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5156	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and the speakers who may sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5163	Sami cultural memories are traces of Sami use and presence in the landscape. This could be done, for example, by: be vultures, fireplaces, houses, staffs, cemeteries, sacrificial sites, sacred mountains and lakes, places of Sennagra, children's playgrounds, oral narratives and joiks linked to specific places. The Committee has examined a proposal from the Green Party representative Per Espen Stoknes for a special protection process for selected sacred mountains in Sami culture. In this case, two proposals from SV have also been put forward. The intention of the proposal is good, but that is, as I and the majority of the committee see it, not need a new system or a separate process. Sámi cultural memories currently have a special protection, with Sámi cultural memories over 100 years of age being automatically protected and several Sami cultural memories mentioned in the Report. St. 16 for 2019–2020, New objectives of cultural environment policy. This is a cultural heritage we're proud of, and we want to take care of. We show in our remarks that among many important Sami cultural memories, a sacred mountain is registered in Ashkeladden, the Riksantikvaren database. We take this to income for the scheme to work. Then I have to say that the government has already proposed to improve its registers on cultural environment data, and in Chapter 11.5.1, Askeladden, the big news of new objectives in cultural environment policy describes a plan for the further development of Askeladden as a central cultural memory register that will also be able to obtain data from reports, surveys, articles and registers owned and shared by other actors. This includes, inter alia: data from the counties, the Sameting, the municipalities, the archaeological administrative museums, the Kartverket, the Arkivverket and other actors who own and manage relevant information on cultural environments in Norway. Recently, the Sameting came with a message about Sami cultural memories, where this about Sami mountains is mentioned in Chapter 5. The combination here calls for an improvement in the registration of sacred mountains. They are calling for an improvement in the registers that we have already notified to be improved, so this is a good day at work. This is a video game that I expect the Riksantikvaret to take note of. I expect the Sameting to take advantage of the opportunity to share relevant information about the cultural environments on which they sit, so that we get a full and good register in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5178	When I read what is in the representative proposal itself, I simply think that the proposal has a completely different emphasis than what you would think is based on the title. The title reads ‘Protection process for selected sacred mountains in Sami culture’. However, if you read the background to the proposal, this is justified by, for example: increased organisation of mining, commercial tourism, water and wind power, OL in Tromsø, power development at Kjerringtinden and other infrastructure. It also states that development interests in natural areas take precedence over cultural memory protection and religious practices related, for example, to: reindeer operation. The fact that the Green Party is against all developments in North Norway has been known for a long time, and it was not until today that more localities of the Green Party will have the North Norway Railway removed from the Green Party's party programme. As a representative from North Norway, I think it would have been more honest if the Greens had said what they really meant, and not push Sams and Sami interests in front of themselves, indirectly, to put down the whole of North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5185	As I pointed out in my reply to the Family and Culture Committee in a letter of 6 January, the possibilities of taking care of sacred mountains and natural sites in Sami culture are already good. I also said that I don't see any reason to work out models for the preservation of sacred mountains and natural sites when it's possible to preserve the cultural historical values of the systems we already have, or to evaluate a special protection process according to the model of the Swedish cultural reserves when I realize that this is already taken care of in Norwegian legislation. It's the cultural heritage that gives ground to protect places to which faith and tradition are attached. By law, mountains, rocks and other geology with cultural historical value can also be protected. Such values may also be taken into account in the protection of natural disasters. Cultural monuments have signs that can provide protection to a larger area. The cultural satisfaction of the Sámi Church and the Church Garden of Neiden in South Varanger is one example of how cultural monuments have been used to protect an important cultural environment in a wider context. The area satisfaction of Mortensnes in the municipality of Nesseby is also an example of a larger, holistic area with many important cultural memories. to faith and tradition. The cultural environment management is also involved in processes aimed at identifying important landscape values with cultural historical content, including: in the Riksantikvaren project Cultural-historical landscapes of national interest and in the national park plans. I therefore believe that the natural thing is that it is the Sameting itself as the responsible authority that initiates such processes or acts in other ongoing processes. That is why I think that the second proposal in the proposal for a representative should be dropped. I don't see any reason to figure out models for the preservation of sacred mountains and natural places when it's possible to preserve the cultural historical values of the systems we have. Then I understand that the Greens have a great heart for the religious practices practiced in sacred landscapes. I also understand that the representative of Stoknes, who is presenting the proposal, is concerned that power building and other interventions in nature should weaken the possibilities. I can share, to the extent that the representative needs to recognise protection and support these places and the great importance and value they have. I may not agree, however, that neither Grundlova, the cultural heritage nor the cultural environment policy recognizes sacred mountains in Sami culture, as it is presented in the proposal for a representative. Therefore, I do not agree that there is a need to sort out new models related to this. The size managed and agreed to the cultural environment message that the government presented about a year ago. I'm now busy following up on the new policy and all the new measures that got broad support here in the hall. Among other things, there is a warning that work will be undertaken to propose a new cultural environment law. It's a big and important job, and if one thinks that there's a lack of sources and legal tools today, it could be an arena to report it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5198	I'll just briefly come up with our reasons for voting against this. It's not because we're not concerned with what matters to the Sami people in Sápmi, it's because we think that such important things should be initiated by the Sameting, as the case-rapporteur explained in his statement. It's an important thing. The government is working on a cultural environment law, and there it is announced that this could be a topic. Then Sametinget and Finnmark's people have a good opportunity to come up with their views on that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5203	The Sami people are indigenous to Norway. Sami language, business, culture and way of life are under strong pressure. Sami language is strongly weakened over most of Sápmi, it is strongly only in the Sámi majority areas of Inner Finnmark. It is a result of State repression and a research policy that was official policy towards the community until the late 1960s. The slowdowns in this policy include: that several of Norway’s partners are growing up today without learning their mother tongue. Red will have a society where Sami rights are respected and Sami culture is given its rightful place. We are still seeing major impacts of research policy. One of them is to talk about the Sami people and not with them. The Government has proposed that Sámi rights and the obligation to consult the Sameting should be legalised, but this does not alter the current practice of consulting the Sameting and not taking the recordings into account. The economic transfers to the Sameting today are too small. Sami children have no legal right to education in their own language. The state is suing Sami reindeer owners to force the reindeer teams to be reduced on the Finnmarks, even though there is uncertainty in the research as to whether it is actually overgrazing. Although the Sametinge says no to major natural interventions such as: mine fumping in Repparfjord, the state says yes. What Sameting means is not taken into account. There are only a few examples of the repression the Norwegian State is exerting against the group today. Red will strengthen Sami self-determination and the sovereignty of the whole thing. We'll stop wind turbines even where there's been a concession in reindeer areas. We want to strengthen local control of the natural resources of Sami areas both on land and in the sea, give Sami veto to natural interventions in Sami areas and change the Nordic Convention to include Sami rights to natural resources. Red supports the minority's proposal to cooperate with the Sameting to start securing Sami sacred natural sites. The real protection of sacred places of nature does not come until we give together real self-determination and not just a duty to consult the paper.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5222	I'm just going to take the floor to promote the two proposals that SV has in the matter, and briefly explain the thinking behind them. In principle, this is an important proposal from the Greens/Greens/EFA. We see that there is a difference in cultural memories and protection in these and other areas. But then there has been important input into the matter from the Sameting about just how this should be set up. That is why we have listened to those recordings and adjusted the proposals of the Greens' Greens' Party to some extent and promoted them in this matter. I think it's important to listen to the Sameting in this. These are important natural sites for Sami culture, and in far too many cases areas that are important for Sami culture and Sami living conditions at all are set aside for other interests. We see it in several of the extension matters that are now relevant, and therefore I believe this is a good time to send a signal that we are listening to Sametinget, as we are doing in this case. That is when I promote the two proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5233	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5238	An increasing number of countries recognize sacred places in the landscape as protective because they have, and currently have, an important function in society. In Norway, we have many special places with millennial traditions and religious practices that are not just dependent on houses or foundations. These should be considered as protective items with specific protection requirements. Both Sweden and Australia and a number of other countries have established schemes for certain mountains. In Norway, we still have no sacred mountains that have achieved such status, despite the fact that the Sami cultural traditions are well documented. Our proposal wants to recognise, protect and support sacred places of religious, cultural and social importance, which have great value for future generations as well. Recent research and archaeological findings document living religious practices around sacred mountains, lakes, forests, rocks and other natural formations. These sacred mountains are the very basis for the traditional spiritual practices of the community and possess a spiritual force in nature, which have been used together at all times. In the 1700s, however, Sami language and culture were viewed as an evil for both state and church. Sami culture was eventually illegally and severely punished. Everything from language to song, dance and traditional celebrations was to be replaced by Western culture. The Sami traditions of public space gradually disappeared and were reserved for the few in the family, small groups, individuals and perhaps only certain occasions. Purgatory and duodji, Sami craftsmanship, have been central to the survival of Sami religious traditions. Place names such as Sáivu, Bassi, Áiles, Haldi and Áahka tell us that these are sacred mountains, and that they are found in all the Sami regions. These practices are now critically threatened. Many Samaritans today feel strongly at ease when they see that their sacred mountains are gradually changing and being built down through the grip of the great society. This is because these cultural and perhaps softer natural values are so easily overlooked in the face of economic considerations for the big society. Increased organisation of wind power, tourism, mining, hydropower and other infrastructure leads to a continuing deterioration of these traditional nature-related practices. The issue has now been updated through wind power development plans at many sacred mountains, including the following: Rástigaisá and Aahkansnärtje in the valley of Hattfjell. Despite the Constitution, investigations, cultural memory law and cultural memory policy, Norway does not in practice follow up on its obligations towards the community. We therefore support the SV's revised proposal in the case, that the Sameting should be closely involved all the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5257	This case came on very ‘plums’, so everyone was not present when I, as the case-rapporteur, made my initial comment here. But what I wanted to point out is that we already have good protective arrangements, and that the arrangements that exist today also include Sami holy mountains and Sami sacred places. Then I took the example that many of these sites are already registered in the Ashkeladden database. There is already a sacred mountain registered, and it does not limit the possibility of registering more in the future. At the same time, the government says in Meld. St. 16 for 2019-2020, New objectives in the cultural environment policy, that this register should also be expanded so that more people who own information on cultural environments and areas can participate and enter and register these cultural memories in that register. This applies, inter alia, to: The whole thing, which I see as a party you listen to. Now the Sametinge has established their own cultural memory message, which they have recently adopted. I expect it will be sent to the Riksantikvarn, so that it will also be made known in the department. There they take up this with sacred mountains. When we dealt with the big news of new goals in the cultural environment policy, there was no mention in the recording from Sametinget of sacred mountains, but there are very many pictures and examples from, among others. Sami places in that notification. So I really perceive that you're talking to and not just about the Sami people. Then I just want to point out that what was said here from the pulpit of, among other things. Red, that Sami children do not have the right to education in their own language, do not vote. I really perceive that together have a very great right to real self-determination, and especially in the Sami areas. Therefore, I would like to say that the Storting should be careful about going in and adopting something before you can have a debate on it in the areas that actually apply. It's not necessarily that it's just the Sami interests in the Sami areas that are important to listen to, it can also apply to those who live there and want to have a business and a good life where you live, and then sparkles can occur between interests. I have spoken negatively about wind power, among other things. on a sacred mountain, but also because I thought it was important not to build up important nature. I think it's important that we all manage to see the different perspectives, and that the Storting is not so hardhouse and bombastic that you adopt things without thinking carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5277	It is good that the government announces that a new cultural environment law will be drawn up, and that the Sametinge will be closely involved. But as long as one only investigates, we fear that this will lead to further postponements – just as promised in the past, but not followed up in practice. Since this seems to be perhaps the last article of today, I will round off with a few words from Nils-Aslak Valkeapää that goes to the essence of this: «Do you hear the sounds of life in the estuary in the breeze from the wind That's all I want to say. That's all.'
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-23.ana.ud360e5296	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It's not set, and the meeting has been cancelled.
