ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e72	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representatives of Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Une Bastholm and Camilla Strandskog, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The formerly exempted alternate of Rogaland, Julia Wong, has again taken up his seat. The called alternate of Rogaland, Tom Kalsås, is now taking the seat. The representative of Bjørn Moxnes shall apply for a care permit from 8 March until further notice. From the representative of Erlend Wiborg, an application for maternity leave is made from 8 March to 11 March. Applications are made by the Workers' Group to extend the mandates granted by the representatives of Kari Henriksen and Ingvild Kjerkol to cover the period from 8 March until further notice. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate for West Agder, Odd Omland, there is an application for an exemption from meeting in Stortinget from 8 March to 11 March under the permission of the representative Kari Henriksen, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: This application shall be dealt with without delay and shall be accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For West Agder: Astrid Margrethe Hilde and Odd Omland For Oslo: Seher Aydar For Nord-Trøndelag: Jorid Juliusus Nordmelan For Eastfold: Bears Laabak
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e145	Astrid Margrethe Hilde, Seher Aydar, Jorid Juliusus Nordmelan and Bears Laabak are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e152	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Council this week, and considers it to be adopted. The President will propose Heidi Greni. – Other proposals are not available, and Heidi Greni is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e165	The representative of Eirik Faret Sakariassen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e170	First, I would like to congratulate you on the Women's Day!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e175	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e181	From representatives Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Lars Haltbrecken, Nicholas Wilkinson, Mona Fagerås, Arne Nävra and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to allow people with disabilities to choose zero-emission vehicles in Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e186	The representative, Mr Hemdal, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e191	Congratulations on the day, Mr. President! On behalf of the representatives Sylvi Listhaug, Jon Engen-Helgheim, Siv Jensen and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative ban on children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children. On behalf of the representatives of Himanshu Gulati, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Sylvi Listhaug, Solveig Horne and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for a representative to give the family full freedom to share the parental leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e200	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e205	Congratulations on the day to all women! On behalf of the representatives Karin Andersen, Freddy André Øvstegård and myself, I am promoting a proposal for a strengthened and free crisis centre offer for victims of violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e212	The representative, Jon Engen-Helgheim, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e217	On behalf of the representatives of Siv Jensen, Sylvi Listhaug, Christian Tybring-Gjedde and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to give municipalities a clear legal base to prevent organisations and religious communities from engaging in clear anti-integration activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e222	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e227	First, I'd like to say good fighting day! On behalf of the representatives of Mona Fagerås, Eirik Faret Sakariassen, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Karin Andersen and myself, it is my pleasure to make a proposal to clarify the prohibition of sexual harassment in the Work Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e234	The representative, Seher Aydar, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e239	Congratulates all women with fighting day first and foremost! On behalf of Red, I would like to make representations to ensure Norwegian salary and working conditions on cruises in Norwegian waters.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e247	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that case no. 11, Unit, will be dealt with before case No. 1 and therefore ask the representatives to be present until the minutes have been discussed. Furthermore, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e317	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President, 3 minutes to other party groups and 3 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e324	The Health and Welfare Committee has examined an SV representative proposal to ensure equivalent and good rehabilitation services throughout the country. An overall committee refers to consultation on significant geographical differences in the provision of rehabilitation services, and the Committee considers that it must be a priority task to ensure that residence is not essential for access and quality to the provision of rehabilitation and rehabilitation services. The Committee is concerned that a reduction in the specialised health service is not achieved until the offer is ready to be given in the municipalities and that there is a need for good cooperation between local and specialist health services. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the SV, promote a separate proposal that the government should ensure that the specialist healthcare rehabilitation offer is not reduced until the municipalities are able to take responsibility for the patient groups concerned. I will then go over to argue for the Workers' Party's view in the matter. As mentioned in the Committee's comments, the Workers' Party is very concerned that people should not fall between two chairs when one feels that some specialist health services in the field are being built up without the municipalities being able to provide the same follow-up quality of these patients. Close and good interaction between municipalities and specialist health services is needed. Of course, sometimes there may be borderline cases: Do you belong in the municipality, or do you belong in the specialist health service? But the outcome is, in any case, equal — both for the patient concerned and for society if he does not receive good follow-up. So it has to be, when we want people to live in the whole country, that you also get the good follow-up regardless of which health region you belong to, regardless of whether you live in a city, or whether you live in the countryside. So the Labour Party, at least, sees that this is a field that could have been lifted further, beyond what has been the case in the last few years. It's a lot to win in terms of quality of life for the individual, taking this field seriously, and it's also a lot to win for society if you can avoid lost working days, avoid people falling out of work earlier than what would have been strictly necessary. In this way, we have looked forward to the evaluation report on the phasing-out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. Unfortunately, the committee did not have access to – and not others, for that matter – until the very end, when the matter was to be resolved, but the reading is disappointing in many ways when we review the KPMG report. The escalation plan does not appear to have contributed to a systematic change in the behaviour of key actors in the field. There is little appropriate and unclear sharing of responsibilities, individual levels are poor, weak governance and lack of leadership anchoring at national level, lack of a coherent national approach, and systems of exchange of experience and learning are also weak. This shows the need for the field to be higher on the agenda, and for the Minister of Health to take clear direction, for there is every reason to put more effort into it. It will have a huge gain, both for the individual and for us as a society, when more people are able to do more tasks themselves and be able to do more work. So I'm worried that the covid situation we're now facing is going to present further challenges. That is why the Labour Party has long been concerned that we need to put in place a national strategy for those who have been hit by the Korona. We see that very many, and also quite young people, have great aftereffects, which make them hard to get back to everyday life, get back to their work. I have the impression that this is now getting better, but it has been important for the Workers' Party that early training came in for those who then have long-standing negative effects of the corona. But what's a maybe even bigger challenge is all those who have a condition that depends on training and rehabilitation. I have received more feedback, e.g. from the union representing chroniclers, that there is now a loss of function as a result of limitations in the ability to obtain professional training and guidance. Training centres are closed, swimming pools and hot water pools are closed, and there are chroniclers who are not getting out of bed now. We must therefore ensure that the long-term consequences in this field are minimised, and I have expectations that the Council of State also has a plan for how we should take back what is now in the area of rehabilitation. With that, I will address the proposals of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e349	The representative, Tellef Inge Mørland, then mentioned the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e354	There are significant geographical differences in the types of rehabilitation services that exist and are provided. It is therefore important to ensure that the place of residence is not essential for the availability of the individual’s habilitation or rehabilitation services. The Party of Progress does not believe that it is possible to provide a high quality of all types of habilitation and rehabilitation, in all forms of disease and injury, if the offers are to be available everywhere. The party is concerned that everyone should get the best offer that is to be recovered. This means that all that is considered a specialisation must still be an offer in the specialist health service. No municipality, and at least not the small and medium-sized ones, will ever be able to follow up any speciality needed. The Progress Party has always fought for the right to be the head of its own life and the right to make its own choices. Therefore, free choice of use and free choice of treatment have always been important to us. We don't think it's acceptable that only rich people should be boss and make their own choices. Good rehabilitation services increase the quality of life, increase independence and speed up the return of people to work or to a life where they manage more themselves. Who wouldn't want that? This is important for the individual, for their closest and for society. It's obvious in this case, as in all other health matters we're dealing with, that state funding of the entire treatment chain would make it easier to get rehabilitation and rehabilitation at the right level at the right time, and equal to everyone. It is unfortunately so that your ability to manage yourself or provide maximum benefit from the damage or disease you are affected by, often is about luck or unhappiness – luck that someone told you about your rights, luck that there was an offer of high quality, and luck that there was a free space that you could get. But as long as the system continues in the same district, better interaction between the state and the municipality must be ensured at least. In government declarations of which the Progress Party has been part, the reduction of the offer of specialist health services in this field has required that this could not be done without the local authorities being able at the same time to take over the follow-up of these patients. The Progress Party is therefore involved in making proposals to this effect, so that we ensure that this rule continues to apply. Unfortunately, even though the Riksrevision report is beginning to be a few years old, it showed that the capacity of the municipal health service has been strengthened to a small extent after the interaction reform. Municipal follow-up is about organization where you live your life: at home, at work and at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e371	SV has put forward a proposal to strengthen the rehabilitation service throughout the country. We are discussing this right after we in this field have received a stepping-up plan, which has recently ended. Nevertheless, the situation is quite similar as it was before the escalation plan. It's a paradox. The central batch will not support SV's suggestion to downgrade a selection to assess capacity and map the rehabilitation field. We are making an own proposal to step up the provision of rehabilitation and rehabilitation based on the Health Directorate’s evaluation report and to present it to the Stortinge in an appropriate way. The case spokesperson was concerned about what this evaluation report shows, and I agree that the result is not the expected outcome of a stepping-up plan, rather the opposite. It is also stated in the evaluation report that there is little evidence that it will improve over the years ‘unless a more fundamental change in the approach to reform is implemented. The action plan was based on a grant scheme and not on a plan of amendment with concrete or numerical objectives». The evaluation shows the lack of incentives for a more holistic national approach and a poor and unclear distribution of responsibilities. The aim of the escalation plan was that the municipalities should assume some of the responsibility for the provision of rehabilitation and rehabilitation services. It turns out that the municipalities have not been strengthened accordingly, but we know that specialised rehabilitation is usually built up because hospitals, among other things. has large power display requirements. We cannot continue in this way, and I think it is interesting what the evaluation report recommends – firstly, that one should develop and adopt a national plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. It's quite similar to what the Center Party is proposing today, and I think it's a pity that we don't get more votes than those from the Center Party for that, as it looks in the setting. There are also several recommendations that I thought are interesting, and that could have come into such a case if we had got multiple numbers for our proposal today. With this, I'll deal with the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e386	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e391	The representative proposal is very good and looks very reasonable at first sight. Differences in the provision of rehabilitation services in municipalities are not desirable. It is a challenge that services outside of our 356 municipalities are different, although we would like all citizens to receive equal offers. It is a goal that most of our primary services should be provided by municipalities, as close as possible to people and by people living in the local environment. Norway is different from many countries by the fact that it is the municipalities and not the state that provides the main services to its inhabitants, which will create inequality. Within the framework of care for the elderly, the Stortinget adopted the Government’s Annual Report Life throughout its life, where the aim is to raise quality through the sharing of competences. This is a very good and important idea in order to balance the differences in quality of service between municipalities, and this idea can be usefully extended to many more service areas. There is a need for stronger involvement of users and relatives in line with our efforts to develop patients’ healthcare. There is a need to reduce the differences in supply, increase the use of welfare technologies, strengthen cooperation between primary health services, specialist health services and other welfare actors and ensure equivalent services. This is part of the central objectives of the government's phasing-out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. Now, when we're going to vote against the proposal for a representative, it's because the Health Directorate has been given the task of evaluating the phasing out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. The evaluation is ready, and the result will be used to establish new actions. We believe that the knowledge from the evaluation should be taken into account before we decide which actions should be taken to improve the equality of services and the quality of the provision of rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e404	I thought Norway had good health care for those who need it. And that's true-- except for rehabilitation and habilitation. Representatives from the Sunnaa Hospital and the Physiotherapist Association have said so well: “A saved life must also be lived.” Without rehabilitation, I would have been exhausted. I couldn't go, I couldn't eat, I couldn't talk. This case is important. I want everyone else to get the help I have received. Everyone should be given the opportunity to live a good life after an injury. It is also very expensive for the state of Norway not to give priority to rehabilitation. SV has worked for a plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation and has made proposals in this case. Now we have received the answers from the evaluation of the phasing out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. The evaluation report points out that the field has been under-priority for many years and that there are several systematic weaknesses. They write that there is little evidence that the weaknesses in the field will disappear in the coming years, unless a more fundamental change in approach is made. The first recommendation is a national plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. That is the proposal here and now. All the hearing replies support the SV's proposal. The Health Directorate’s report refers to a national plan – which SV promotes alone. I hope that the other parties will follow professional advice, so that people can finally get the help they need. I am glad that there is a majority that hospitals cannot stop providing rehabilitation services until the municipalities are able to take over the responsibility. It is an important and comprehensive decision. It will change much of the policies of health businesses. Many municipalities have few measures. When health enterprises have to wait until the municipalities are able to help, almost all closures will be stopped. We expect the Council of State to follow up. I'm addressing SV's suggestions. SV vote in a subsidiary way for proposal No. 5. from the Centre Party, whose proposal No. 6, if the rehabilitation plan falls.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e419	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e424	A good rehabilitation offer in municipalities and in specialist health services is an important goal for the government and above all for patients. The phasing out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation 2017–2019 has recently been evaluated. The purpose of the plan was to help municipalities to provide a good rehabilitation service to their inhabitants and to take over several rehabilitation tasks from the specialist health service over time. I am aware that there are geographical differences in the provision of rehabilitation services in the municipal health and care services and in the specialist health service. The government may affect undesired variation, among others. through the mission documents of the health regions and in the governance signals of the administrators. In addition, the Health Directorate develops guides in the field that are regularly updated. These should be a tool for municipalities and specialist health services to take care of their care-responsibilities for patients in need, inter alia. rehabilitation. I am concerned that we need to develop a wide range of services in the area of rehabilitation. Some patients need simple interventions; others need multi-disciplinary services, including health and care services. The complex and specialised rehabilitation shall continue to be the responsibility of the specialist health service. I assume that the specialist health service has a good dialogue with and cooperates with municipalities, and that patients are guaranteed a still good rehabilitation offer. Simple 24-hour rehabilitation and day and outpatient rehabilitation have decreased in the specialist health service, but the report on specialist health rehabilitation 2015–2019 shows a strong increase in rehabilitation in the private rehabilitation institutions that have agreed with health regions. Free treatment choices in hospitals and private rehabilitation institutions give patients the right to choose treatment across the country and may even regional differences in the provision of rehabilitation services. We also gradually increase rehabilitation in the authorisation system for free treatment choices. The aim is better access to rehabilitation services and to counteract unwanted variation. Health business leaders have been given guidance and outpatient rehabilitation in municipalities. The Health Directorate is also working to develop quality objectives in the provision of rehabilitation. The Health Directorate has recently evaluated the escalation plan, such as: is based on a survey of the provision of rehabilitation services in a large number of municipalities. I believe the evaluation gives a good insight into how the offer appears in the municipalities. According to the evaluation, the escalation plan has contributed to increased attention in the area of rehabilitation, but I also note that the plan has taken different forms in the municipalities. We will now go carefully through the evaluation of the escalation plan and assess measures for better and more equivalent rehabilitation services across the country in dialogue with the Health Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e440	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e445	The Minister of Health was involved in the evaluation of the rehabilitation and rehabilitation plan. He was in his description quite sober, but one must consider that KPMG's report is almost slaughtered in some fields. Among other things, the summary states: ‘The evaluation considers that the escalation plan itself appears as a grant scheme and not a plan that was rigged to contribute to the systematic and lasting strengthening of the provision of rehabilitation and rehabilitation services.’ My question to the Minister of Health is: What was his reaction when he received the evaluation report, and how will he more specifically follow up the report and ensure that the weaknesses in the field that have now been identified in the evaluation report are addressed?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e455	I was not surprised when I got this report. I understand that it shows that the efforts made by the government in this area have contributed to increased attention and also to the priority of rehabilitation in some municipalities. But this is one of the challenges we have, given that this is a municipal offer. This means that a escalation plan in this area will be applied differently in different municipalities, because it also depends on the local policy priority of the field if it is actually to deliver results.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e460	I understand that the Minister of Health would like to point out the municipalities, but it is therefore in the report that there is a lack of and weak governance, anchored at the national level of the government, and it is hardly any of the responsibilities of the municipalities to address. But there has to be a good interaction between the national and municipal levels. One of the reasons I'm extra worried about rehabilitation now is that it's about the coronary epidemic. I think maybe we're about to put in place an exercise plan for those who are hit by the corona. But I'm very concerned about, among other things. chroniclers, where I am now told that some people do not even get out of bed anymore because they have lost training, whether they are physiotherapists or others who have had to reduce their offer, or it is simply about training centres, swimming pool and hot water pool that are closed. My question to the Council of State is: What compensatory measures will the Minister of Health take to avoid unnecessary permanent functional losses in this part of the population as a result of reduced follow-up during covid-19?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e468	Firstly, we have started a great deal of work on the long-term impact of covid-19 and rehabilitation, for which the directorate has been responsible. So it's like some of the negative consequences of closed offers are some of what we've taken over through changes in the action recommendations in those areas. So here both the recommendation and the regulation have changed, so that it knows, for example. the closure of training centres, swimming pools, etc. it is possible to provide open and organised rehabilitation and training services to groups that need it for health purposes. In the evaluation report on the rehabilitation and rehabilitation plan, recommendation number one is that a national plan should be developed for this area: ‘There is a strong need for an overall plan with concrete objectives and areas of activity’ and ‘The plan should be developed together with all relevant actors’. This is therefore point 1 of the recommendations of the evaluation report. Read a step-by-step plan from the government, one would believe that this was exactly what was said before the escalating plan – that we should have a stepping-up plan with concrete objectives and areas of activity. It did not seem to have happened, but my question is whether the Council of State will now follow up on point 1 of the evaluation report on getting a national plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e477	We will now, together with the Health Directorate, review this evaluation and look at the follow-up points included in that recommendation, but we have not yet concluded that. It is true, as the representative says, that the escalation plan in its time contained just concrete initiatives and concrete objectives, but which have given varying results. I think we also have to take on board that as long as you talk about the municipal rehabilitation services, the national ability to control the bet in those areas is quite limited. It depends on the decision of the municipalities, and it may be a call to point to the municipalities, but it is the organisation of this service that Stortinget has chosen. As long as the municipalities have direct responsibility, we will be able to use economic instruments to motivate, and we can use educational tools as supervisors, etc., but ultimately we depend on the local authorities and local authorities to make the specific decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e484	The government’s plan of escalation states under ‘Measure’ that the escalation plan ‘must help to enable municipalities to provide well-organised rehabilitation services for their citizens and to assume, over time, a greater responsibility for rehabilitation from the specialist health service’. It also says that it is a goal that users should receive help where they live, and that they should strengthen the user's perspective and quality. I understand that the government will review the evaluation report, but with such a clear objective of increasing the provision of rehabilitation, you must be able to tell the Council today whether it is happy or whether it does not see that there is any other way to do so. For it is not that one has given up hope and the goal of getting more rehabilitation in the municipalities, when there was a clear goal from the government in 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e491	No, I haven't given up in any way, but I think it's also important when you're discussing this, that one also sees the constraints of achieving the goals that are similar in all the municipalities. As the evaluation shows, many municipalities have used the escalation plan to make significant improvements in their own offerings, but the challenge is that not all municipalities have done so. Many municipalities have not. A new national plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation is likely to end up with the same evaluation, namely that some municipalities have received a better offer through such an action plan, while others have not received it. As long as you have this as a municipal responsibility, there will be some municipalities that, despite being a national bet area, choose not to bet on it and not follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e496	I thought it was good health care for everyone. I have learned, when I have been ill, that rehabilitation and rehabilitation are very poor in Norway. SV suggests that we have a National Development Centre for Rehabilitation. It was a proposal from health professionals working in the field. We've learned that, for example. Inner Eastfold has very good services for people, but the ideas are not shared. It's hard for municipalities to know what's happening in all the other municipalities. Therefore, SV has proposed what health professionals proposed to the Committee to have a national rehabilitation development centre. Will the Government and the Council of State consider a National Development Centre for Rehabilitation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e505	I do not think we have the basis to say that Norway generally has very poor rehabilitation services. The representative himself points to offers that work very well. There are very many good rehabilitation services in Norway, and many also receive good help. The challenge in this field, as in very many areas of health, is that there is too much variation, and what measures one should use to try to do something about that variation, I'm very open to. There are many different measures. Among other things, disseminating better experience and knowledge about what works is an important tool precisely to try to do something about the variation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e512	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e532	At the request of the Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President, 3 minutes to other political groups and 3 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e539	Since the representative of Kirkebirkeland is no longer a representative, I am honoured to make representations on behalf of the President-in-Office. We have had a thorough round on this matter in the committee and consultation with a great deal of commitment, and this is clearly a matter for which many are concerned. All residents of Norway are entitled to immediate assistance from the municipal health and care services and from specialist health services. All people have universal rights for which countries are to protect. Everyone in the kingdom has the right to health care that is absolutely necessary and cannot wait. This may include situations where the patient’s condition is such that, in a short time, a need for immediate help is most likely to arise. Persons who are mentally unstable and present a nearby and serious risk to their own or others’ lives or health require the provision of mental health protection, even if they are here without legal residence. In general, mental health is an area in which the Stortinget has focused on strengthening, and cooperation with volunteers has been facilitated, which also contributes to the diversity of mental health services. All children and pregnant women have the same right to health care today, regardless of whether the stay is lawful or not. All residents of Norway are entitled to abortion interruptions according to the rules of the abortion law and to infectious disease relief under the infectious diseases law. But there are different practices around the country, and it may seem random who gets help, and what help they get from different hospitals, despite the fact that we have a clear code. The majority of the committee points out that this is unfortunate, which I expect is followed up by the government. It is necessary to clarify to some hospitals that there is no need to ask about the ability to pay when women come without a legal stay in Norway to receive maternity care, as this could, in the worst case, lead to women wailing to seek help, and it could put both their own and their child’s lives at undue risk. A field the Committee has given special attention is people who are at risk of trafficking in human beings and serious crime. It is important that they receive the health care they require and need. However, there is also a need for more knowledge of current practice and situation regarding access to rights and healthcare for paperless immigrants and EEA citizens without health insurance when they are in Norway, and it appears that there is a slightly different interpretation of the legislation around the country. A number of proposals are being made in this case. None of them get a majority. Thus, the majority is in favour of the existing legislation in the field, but it makes it clear that it must be followed up in the same way throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e554	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e559	Congratulations on Women's Day! I use the opportunity to exemplify why we need to tighten up the regulation on the right to health and care services for people without permanent residence in the kingdom, with the maternity care of Norwegian hospitals. I expected this to be taken care of, but it is not. I have been sent four examples of births and complicated pregnancy where there has been a bill sent from a hospital in the order of 30 000 to 250 000 kroner, where one knows with certainty that the patient does not have the ability to pay it. It first goes to debt collection, and after countless rounds at debt collection agencies, it goes to lawyers and an unworthy, raw and inhumane – not to mention unhealthy – way of supporting vulnerable women. We were told, and we know for sure, that this promotes so much fear that paperless women choose – involuntarily – to give birth at home. This isn't going to work. It happens in our time, in our common watch – in opposition or in position – and it has to end. State Council Höie can expect me to ask about this in later rounds on this matter. I should also like to explain to the Labour Party today's loose proposals. It is simply about equal treatment for reimbursement of medicines provided by the health centres for paperless people in Bergen and Oslo. It's about annual sums of less than one million, but there's a huge cost for the two centres, who are involved in taking on a large national responsibility that I think is a good welcome in this room. There's something different about what it might be, but they exemplify it with painkillers, diabetes medications or pills. I hope to welcome this, as the corresponding medicines provided by medical guards or health centres in the local government have a refund. This should be corrected. As I said earlier, this is a huge cost for the two centres that many of the paperless go in for the necessary help for medical use. I then take up the suggestions that the Workers' Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e578	Then the representative Hege Haukeland Liadal addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e583	Today, we are discussing a proposal from the SV on health care for all in Norway. It may sound very good in itself, and the idea is certainly good, but it also applies to paperless migrants as well as EEA citizens without health insurance cards. I'll stay a little while by that. In the case of paperless migrants, some people may think that there are people who have been unlucky and lost their papers, who are not known, and who are, in this way, without health care. For the Progress Party, it's important that this is a difference. So if you're a paperless immigrant, you have illegal residence. You're an illegal immigrant, who has no rights and is not allowed or able to work, precisely because you're going out of the country. The general perception in Norway is important here. The centre party and the SV are in charge of fixed medical devices and that they should also be included in the lists of permanent doctors, but there is an important difference between whether they are Norwegian citizens and whether they have citizenship or not, and they should not be undermined. It is serious, I think, when trying to hollow out, when it comes to parties – the centre party in particular – that are temporarily concerned about the lists and their volume, and which at the same time propose, in the middle of a pandemic, to strengthen the rights and increase the lists by putting illegal illegal immigrants on the same lists. It is important that everyone who is in this country at all times receive immediate health care when it is important, and when it is necessary. It gets everyone, regardless of what it's like, if it's about immediate help. But extending the rights to almost premiere those who are illegal in the country is for the Progress Party very, very special. I kind of think it's going back a lot of steps from what we have. There has been a lot of talk about exporting social security rights. Not many years have passed since there was a lot of talk about child welfare, that they worked out their right to do so after having had a short working relationship in Norway. I think that quite a country thought was very special, that you worked up those rights in such a short time. To go as far as this proposal is concerned, to extend the right to health care, that is the Progress Party against it. The Party considers it important to have a reporting obligation, as elsewhere in the State apparatus, when you come into contact with illegal immigrants. We believe that this should also apply here to those who provide health care in addition to what is necessary and who are to be provided. With that, I take up the proposals of the Progress Party in the matter, and then I await further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e604	The representative of Morten Stordalen then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e609	The right to health care is a human right. It is indisputable and is enshrined in several international conventions and declarations. Health care should be available to all without discrimination. In Norway, people without permanent residence in the kingdom have the right to immediate health care, health care that is necessary and that cannot be expected, necessary health care before and after birth and abortion and the right to infectious diseases. Children are entitled to the necessary health and care services from the municipal and specialist health services. Many suggest that the right to health care in Norway without discrimination is not followed up in practice. In 2015, eleven Norwegian organisations signed a call for health care for paperless people. In the appeal, it was shown that children under the Convention must have the right to permanent staff as other children. The call focuses on the fact that current legislation means that health professionals are faced with an untimely dilemma when they are forced to deviate from the principle of providing care and medical treatment based on needs. It violates the occupational ethics guidelines for health professionals. The UN has criticised Norway for violating human rights by not offering undocumented migrants and EU citizens without a health card access to health care in line with other populations. I mean, it's a hunch when a political argument against health care because one thinks there's going to be a traction factor that will make more people come as undocumented migrants to Norway. The centre party will be clear on this matter. Doctors and other health professionals shall be health workers, not border guards. Patients who are not resident in Norway should cover the treatment and care costs themselves. There is a problem that we have heard about, although health professionals have now been given a hint that they should not ask about this in advance. I also found it particularly important that it should be the non-profit organisations that go ahead here and provide health care and secure funding, and that a non-exhaustive approach to a proposal that this requires specific funding mechanisms. Is it right that there should be health professionals, such as the fixed ones, who take these in their doors, instead of closing them out, as the authorities actually add up? After all, the Minister of Health and Health should be a Council of State for everyone in the country, including those who do not have the paper in order. The Central Party supports the proposal for a specific financial instrument. We support the proposal that children should have the right to be on the list as other children. We think that for others, general medical services in municipalities are the important thing, and the right to both curative and preventive health services. We also suggest that one should have an evaluation of the regulation on the right to health and care services because the regulation does not work properly. It is practiced much more rigorously than what was the political intention. With that, I take up the suggestions on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e626	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e632	Health professionals work for paperless people to be entitled to health care. The Association of Nurses, the Medical Association, the Psychologists' Association, the Church's City Mission, Norwegian People's Aid, Norway's Christian Medical Association and Doctor Without Borders clearly states that we must give paperless real access to health care, based on health assessments and human rights. I would like to thank everyone who works for the paperless, and in particular Linnea Näsholm, who is the business manager in Oslo. Thank you for everything you do as the state of Norway should have done. SV promotes, alone, three proposals that everyone, including the paperless, should have access to the fixed medical system, which is the hub of our healthcare, that we should amend Section 5(a) to ensure that everyone, including the paperless, receives primary health services in line with other citizens, and that no paperless pregnant women are required or asked for payment before treatment. Asking for the ability to pay is not allowed until processing is given. Nevertheless, a study, funded by the Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association and carried out by post-doc, is found. Nanna Voldner, that pregnant people experience being asked for payment at consultations and births, or that cheaper treatment is assessed. The coronary virus infects whether rich or poor, white or melatonin rich, all the papers are in order or are paperless. It is therefore very important for health centres for paperless migrants in Bergen and Oslo to have access to covid-19 vaccines. SV promotes proposals to this effect together with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. I am pleased that the Committee, apart from the Advancement Party, clearly writes that pregnant paperless women should not be asked about their ability to pay. The majority believe that more information is needed for all country midwives and health care professionals on the rights to necessary health care for people without legal residence. The majority believe that there is a need for changes in practice in several places. When SV does not get a majority for the proposals, we expect the government to follow up the clear comments, so that the practice is changed immediately. I refer to all the proposals that SV has promoted, and we support the solution proposed by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e649	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e654	The right to health is a human right. There are persons in Norway who are not legally resident at all times, and there is no doubt that they will be given immediate help at all. Today, we are discussing more the extent to which they will receive assistance related to primary health services and the same rights as those who have citizenship of Norway. The number of unreturnables that have been here in Norway for more than five years is less than 5000. That's a large number. People for the rest without a legal stay are also about a few thousand. In particular, this group, which is here without legal residence, is often victims of trafficking in human beings, women and children, vulnerable persons. It is not difficult to imagine that they have a lot of fear and a lot of fear of having to specify their personalia or look up an offer that could threaten their situation. In the last period, I was on the Health and Care Committee and had the pleasure of visiting one of the health centres. There are many fates and many stories that emerge, and there is good reason to extend a great deal of thanks to all voluntary health professionals who offer to contribute to people who are in a vulnerable and difficult situation. I am pleased that the committee is gathering around that a wanting more knowledge, both about how today's regulations work, and what help is actually being offered today in different situations. There is also some mobility among the people involved, and today we have the two health centres in Oslo and in Bergen. There has been a discussion about the extent to which more such centres should be set up, and funding is a topic. The representative Wilkinson referred to other citizens. Some of the challenge is that we are all people, but not everyone is a citizen of Norway. This discussion will continue, and especially when we are going to discuss the extent to which you should give people without legally staying access to firm medical services. There'll have to be a fixed annual funding of it, and that's an uncertain number. Several have mentioned the pregnancy and the vulnerability associated with it. It's also part of the people who are here, who have organ failure or even transplanted an organ. It's expensive medicine. Norway has a good supply of both transplant and access to organs and can pay for drugs, and it is also one of the ethical challenges we face — to what extent we should offer that service to this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e671	First of all, I would like to thank SV for promoting this draft representative. It is no secret that on several occasions, either alone or together with other parties, the Christian People's Party has made similar representation proposals because we definitely see that there are people in Norwegian society who need better health care than what they are being offered today. In this way, the Christian People's Party has not changed its mind, even though we are now in government. It's possible it's a subjective experience, but I see that for every time we have these debates in the Storting, we're moving in the right direction, albeit just a little step. As for the majority comment where all parties except the Progress Party, where we express great concern about the different practices it seems to be between hospitals in terms of the kind of health care offered to the undocumented, at least I feel that there is a recognition among the large majority here on the Stortingen that there is something we need to get more information about, and that there needs to be more information to both the specialist health service and the primary health service about what kind of help they require, these 3,000 to 5,000 people who are among us. I am also pleased that, in the same majority comment, we are showing a commitment in relation to people who are exposed to human trafficking or serious crime, and that we are all concerned that they must receive the health care they need. I would therefore like to invite the Committee to participate in an interpellation debate that we have gone – I don't know when it will – where we focus especially on this group. Because here I think we're going to have to look at the possibility of doing even more, and I hope that the Health Minister will respond positively to that interference. The representative Haukeland Liadal pointed to examples of how people have been treated in the health care system in terms of their ability to pay, especially within birth. We can't have it like that. I am at least very happy that a large majority here is very clear that the ability to pay is not something you should ask about that kind of health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e684	I heard a few times that were at Stortinget, and too many of them have gone to ask the Health Minister to listen to health professionals, and I have to do it today as well. In the past, the Association of Nurses, the Medical Association and the Association of Psychologists have been called upon to ‘provide undocumented real access to health care, based on professional assessments, ethical guidelines and human rights principles’. They ask for equal treatment for all people living in Norway. What I want to ask the Minister of Health today is to have health professionals do their job. It should not be so difficult for a health minister to say clearly yes to. For there are people in Norway who cannot expect to get help from a doctor or get medication if they, for example, do not. have pneumonia, diabetes or psychiatric disorders. I know people who are or have been paperless, people who are deprived of fundamental rights, people who have been tortured, who are not receiving health care, people who have had to leave everything and all the known, people who have some of the worst living conditions in our country – people, president, people! It is possible that there is another argument that makes this government better, the socio-economic one. But there too, it is clear that prevention pays off rather than waiting for it to become acute. Paperless persons should have, or must have, the right to health care in addition to the emergency. In the end, I just have to tell the representative of the Progress Party that health care is not a premium, it is a human right, and human rights follow people and not papers. Now, the Minister of Health should listen to the relief organisations and employees’ organisations and allow all people living in Norway the right to health care in addition to the emergency.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e695	Everyone in Norway is entitled to immediate help. They also have the right to health care that is absolutely necessary and cannot wait. Children and pregnant women have the same right to health care regardless of whether the stay is lawful or not. Persons who are mentally unstable and who present a nearby and serious risk to their own or others’ lives and health are entitled to mental health protection. This also applies when you are illegally living in Norway. All residents of Norway are also entitled to abortion and infectious diseases. I am familiar with the opinion of the report on Norway, which came from the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights in 2020. Different health care rights are the result of a factual discrimination based on the patient’s relationship with Norway. I believe that we provide a good health offer to people who do not have a permanent residence in the kingdom. And I assume that the Norwegian legislation does not violate human rights. As a general rule, people without a permanent stay in Norway will pay for health care themselves, and I understand that this may be difficult for some. Persons without a legal stay cannot be denied health care to whom they are entitled. If the person is unable to pay, the costs shall be borne by the person responsible for providing the health care. And I trust that the healthcare system will ensure that people without a permanent stay in Norway get the healthcare they require. The right to cover expenditure may be no more extensive than the right to receive healthcare. I therefore do not see the need to establish such a financing mechanism as the representatives outline in the proposal. The municipality has an obligation to dimension the general medical service so that there is capacity to treat all patients who are in the municipality at all times. They also apply to those who do not have the right to appear on the list of permanent doctors. A primary consideration behind the fixed medical system is to maintain the continuity of the treatment relationship between the patient and the doctor. This consideration is less relevant to persons residing here illegally, as it is assumed that they will leave the country as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e706	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e711	I have also previously trusted that this group of patients was met with respect and dignity, but we see that birthing women with complicated pregnancy, or possibly interrupted pregnancy – desired or not – are not met with the kind of respect that we would like to expect. It is about sending a bunch of invoices from our healthcare companies, and I have five examples with me today. They're about $30 million – five women who then get a stressful situation beyond what they're in. Had it not been for the efforts of churches, civil society or the Health Centre for Paperless Migrants, many of these women had given up. What are the thoughts of the Council of State about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e716	I'm very concerned that the health service should meet everyone with respect, and one should provide the health care that the individual is entitled to. In the case of payment, healthcare should take it into account if there are persons who are unable to pay themselves. Then you will either be paid by the municipalities, e.g. of the municipal social services, or one does not charge this money. Then, of course, I cannot rule out errors in this area, but this is according to the legislation. This is based on my initiative and is also clarified in a separate circular that was sent out in 2017, as there were some individual things where this was not practiced in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e723	The examples I have received are from recent times and back to 2017, but they are also from this year. There, the Health Centre tells the undocumented that they return the invoices to the health care companies together with the letter of rights stated in the regulation. Nevertheless, the health company sends the invoice to the debt collection agency. What will the Council of State do with this after today's debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e728	This is clarified to health companies, and I do not know the individual issues that the representative here points out now. When this came up as a problem issue in 2017, this was, as I said, clarified in a circular.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e734	It was said from the pulpit of the Christian People's Party that things are moving in this case, even if one does not get multiple for the proposals. It can happen. I am thinking about the debate in 2017. I have found out what the Council of State itself said in that debate and in writing to the Committee: ‘Giveing persons without permanent residence in Norway the same right to health care as persons with permanent residence could lead to more people coming to Norway for free treatment.’ This is a kind of argument that it's been less of in this debate, and I think it's actually very good. Nor do I believe that the Council of State has neither written it in a letter to the committee this year nor said anything like it from the pulpit. I think it is good if one of the Councils has also changed rhetoric and reasoning in this matter. I would like to ask the Council of State: is it so that he has gone away from the rhetoric that health care will help more people come to Norway to receive free treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e748	No, that's a reality. Norway has one of the world’s best health services. If, for any reason, staying in Norway is to provide access to the Norwegian healthcare system, enough people in the world would want to come to Norway for health care. It's completely independent of whether or not you're a person who's staying here illegally or not. There must be some criteria for who should have access to one of the world's best health services, and it is simply that one is a member of the public interest and has the rights it gives. If we say that all people in the world have the right to use the Norwegian healthcare system, of course, the Norwegian healthcare system will collapse.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e753	This was a little more unclear than I thought. Now we're talking about a debate on health care as a fundamental human right. Is that so to understand, based on the response of the Council of State, that the Council of State still thinks we should use health care as an immigration regulatory tool and not recognise the criticism we have received, among other things. from the UN that we discriminate, and that health should be given without discrimination and not used as a means of possibly stopping people from coming to Norway without the papers in order? In Sweden, the dishes are bigger. It's not conclusive, after what I've read, that this actually leads to more people coming to become a health shoppers. So once again, is it that the government actually means the same thing as in 2017? It made this debate a little more negative than I believed in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e762	I believe that the legislation we have in Norway today is within human rights, and I also commented on that in my post. It's not like that's the only way to fulfill human rights. I believe that accessing health care is a fundamental human right, there must be no doubt that I mean anything. But that does not mean that I believe that any human being in the world has the right to access the Norwegian healthcare system. That is really what this debate is about. What should be the criteria for entitlement to Norwegian healthcare? There can be no assumption that as long as you stay in Norway, you will have full rights to the Norwegian healthcare system. It's actually not possible. Then the Norwegian health system will collapse.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e767	I am very pleased that the Committee, with the exception of the Advance Party, makes clear comments that pregnant paperless women should not be asked about their ability to pay. Haukeland Liadal of the Workers' Party showed important examples, and also a report from postdoctor Voldner shows that this is happening. Will the Council of State immediately follow up the comments to change the practice in several places, as stated in the note, and inform all midwives, health care professionals and other related health professionals about these rights that are constantly being violated?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e774	That is exactly what was also clarified by my side in the 2017 circular. So this is really done in the health care area. Then I understand that there are still some breaches of that preparation, and then we have to look at how we can follow it up. But this is prepared in a separate circular from 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e779	So the chord change is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e786	First, the centre party is going to support the loose proposal of the Labour Party that is being made today – I forgot to say that in my previous post. There are few, or none, who have commented that the Progress Party actually suggests here today that non-profit organisations should be required to report when they come into contact with illegal immigrants and that there should be a commitment to receive State aid. I'm glad the government party doesn't support it, but I think it's a pretty extreme suggestion, if I can use that word. Then to the debate. I understand that the debate has moved the matter, at least when we look at the vote, because there are several parties that have been some concrete measures to strengthen health care for those who do not have a legal suspension in Norway. The Labour Party, SV and the Center Party agree on several proposals, and what is very good is that there is a real plurality in this Chamber for these proposals – if the Christian People's Party and the Left had not been bound by the government. That's what makes us have to endure, because this has to be arranged on if not for too long. Of course, I had hoped that the Christian People's Party and the Left would have had a greater impact on the government in this matter, for example. At least we could have an evaluation of the regulation, because when it came in 2011 or 2012, I don't think just when, we extended it from 'immediate help' to even in the case of unanticipated health care. The feedback is that the regulation seems more strict than what was the political will behind it. An evaluation is the least we could have done, and I think we should have done that. I want to challenge the entire government to it, because it's possible to do things even if it's not adopted in the Storting. So you can start this kind of work and go around how the regulation actually works. I am disappointed at the state councils of the replica boards, which go a long way in thinking that this is about immigration regulatory instruments – and more from the basic principle that I am very concerned with, that health is a human right, and that health workers should be health workers, not border guards.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e799	I'm disappointed. The Council of State said that then everyone can come to Norway and that it can break down the whole health system. It's completely wrong. Today, the law is so that anyone who needs emergency care should get it, also paperless. Our proposal is that they should be able to participate in the fixed medical system. Access to primary health services is much cheaper than emergency care. If, for example: those who have diabetes, get drugs, it doesn't cost that much, and then they don't need emergency care. If they don't get medication, they may need surgery or have to remove parts of the body. It costs a lot more than if these people get drugs. To me, it's a little weird. With the rules we have, it's perfectly legitimate to get emergency help, but it costs a lot. If they have access to primary health services, the State of Norway can also save money. So I'm very disappointed that the Council of State is trying to say that if they get primary health services, it can destroy the whole health system. Those who have signed the contract work in the service. You are in favour of the proposal. I trust more in those who work in the ministry than in the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e804	Just a little short post: I understand that the Central Party and perhaps other parties as well, it is disappointing that not the Christian People's Party and the Left have managed to get the government beyond what we have. In this way, the situation is not different than it was during the red-green period, where similar proposals were actually promoted, but where also those who then put in government agreed with each other on what they agreed on that time. I mean what I'm saying, that even though it's small steps, it's still moving in the right direction every time we have these debates. I think the Labour Party is an example of that. They go further today than the Workers' Party has done before. In this way, there is hope that when we get the next debate again, we can get more substance and more change than we can achieve today. So I just want to repeat that the Christian People's Party means the same thing now that we've done before, even though we're in government. Otherwise, I agree with the criticism that comes about regarding the proposals of the Progress Party to indicate the organisations that are coming into contact with the paperless. This is not a new proposal; this has also been promoted in the past by the Progress Party, but they have – fortunately – remained alone on that proposal. So just for what is being attempted to be a debate, namely whether the government's position is really an attitude that bears the mark of being immigration regulation rather than – I kept saying – having a debate on what it really is about, namely health care for the paperless. I have not found any evidence that there are arguments that the Norwegian health service, the good Norwegian health service, is the reason people are trying to escape. I think there are completely different reasons why people run away than Norway has a good health care system, so I hope at least we can establish it. At least I haven't found any evidence that there are people who are fleeing to Norway because we have such a good health care system. There are completely different reasons why we're going out on a flight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e815	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e833	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President, 3 minutes to other party groups and 3 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e840	Thanks to the parties for good cooperation in the case of the offer to children and young people in need of help for mental distress and suffering and measures to strengthen child and youth psychiatry in Norway. The representative proposal was promoted by the Centre Party and had eight actions. In the Committee's opinion, there are 16 minority proposals, proposals for majority decisions, and these are loose proposals. It shows that all parties will work for an even better offer to the young people who need this service. The Committee considers it essential that children and young people in need of mental health care receive good help as quickly as possible. The Committee received many important input from the Løvemma, the Mental Health Council, the Nursing Association, the Change Factory, the Children’s Ombudsman, the Lillehammer Municipality, the Psychologists’ Association, the Norwegian Children’s and Youth Psychiatric Association, the Joint Organisation and the Medical Association. More young people report mental health disorders. The Council of State points to various measures deployed in the community health service, pilot projects and pilots. This issue is about children and young people, and I would like to point out a unanimous decision in the treatment of National Health and Hospital Plans 2020-2023 to review health legislation to ensure that this is in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is difficult for the government to complete the decision in the middle of a pandemic. We'll wait for the review when it's possible to do it. So far, I've been talking on behalf of the whole committee. Now I want to talk from SV's point of view. We had a mental health crisis in the country before the pandemic hit Norway. Now it's even worse. Two weeks ago, we were given a majority to stop laying down daily treatment and to review the need to increase daily capacity in line with the need. I was uncertain whether the government would follow up the decision quickly enough. That is why I have written a separate chapter on the Circuit Sedan. I am very pleased that the majority of the committee is proposing to stop the closure of the Circuit Tuna. I have talked to young people who have received help from these relief measures. Those who have used the BUP have a lot of knowledge that we have to learn from. SV suggests that education should be based on the knowledge of children. We need to use all the knowledge to make the help offer the best possible. Therefore, the SV's proposal is slightly different from several of the proposals from the Centre Party and the Workers' Party. We need to build up a multidisciplinary offer for children and young people. Therefore, the SV withdraws from the proposal for Decision I and instead promotes proposals to build up the public offer. There are very few contract specialists working with children and young people, since work is poorly suited to multidisciplinary work. SV temporarily suggests more contract specialists, since we are in a crisis and need to use all the tools we have. The most important measure is what we propose in proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox There is so much bureaucracy and takes so much time before the young get the help they need. Then they can get even sicker. Together with the Workers' Party and the Center Party, we propose rapid mental health care without referral in all municipalities, so that it is easy for young people to get the help they need so badly. The SV promotes all the proposals we are making and supports the proposal of the Workers' Party. SV vote in a subsidiary way for the proposals No. 6 and 7 and does not support proposals for Decision I. There is an error in proposal No. 18, from SV. It shall be «permanent and complete posts», not «permanent and health jobs».
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e865	Then it's clear. The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e872	Children and young people with mental disorders are one of today's major challenges. Never have we had such a high standard of living. Never has it been so great to take the education you want, to have a rich leisure time, to have a good health. At the same time, then, these mental health challenges have never been so great. I think maybe it's because of openness -- it's okay to tell you that you're not feeling well. But then there are probably also some major challenges and the requirement to be perfect, which are perceived to be unattainable to many – not to feel good enough. The working party is therefore concerned that we need to have prevention, low-threshold mental health services without referral, school health services and strengthening with more health care professionals. We also need to be able to give those who need a more comprehensive offer, proper follow-up. That is why we, together with the rest of the opposition, were calling for a halt to the building-up of daily places in the field of mental health protection. It must also apply to children and young people. And it's not either-or. It's not a contradiction, for example. to have good outpatient teams that also follow up. I'm concerned that these challenges of mental health and children and young people are now exacerbating themselves under the corona. One of the areas in which we've got a lot of feedback is eating disorders. The NRK reports that children’s and young people’s psychiatric wards have a high incidence of eating disorders among young people. Bergen’s Official Journal could report that children down to the age of 11 had been admitted due to eating disorders. This is one of the reasons why we in the Workers' Party today think it is wise to continue the 24-hour offer that is at the Circuit Sedan in Lillehammer. And there are several parties that have been involved – fortunately. We in the Workers' Party have been concerned that we need to put in place a crisis package in the area of mental health. Then we must not downgrade our offers. I am pleased that we are now working with almost the entire majority on an extended use of contract specialists in the field of mental health protection. But we also have our own proposals that point out that we need to increase recruitment within this particular field. Economy is a challenge that can be solved. Recruitment of professionals takes a little longer to solve. In this regard, since I'm from Agder, I just want to remind you that it's educational institutions at the University of Agder that are gradually ready for, for example. to be able to offer professional studies in psychology if we want to put it into practice. The working party wants to make it easier to get help early. That is why we want to eliminate the excesses on mental health protection for young people, and we want health care professionals to be given the right of referral to the BUP, because the road must be as short as possible. But we have to have two thoughts in our head at the same time – at least. We cannot fail those who did not get help early enough, and who need more extensive offers. That is the prerequisite for us today to be able to agree to decisions that give good help to those children and young people who are unfortunately struggling. With that, I take up the proposals that the Workers' Party has with the Centre Party, and that proposal, the Labour Party alone, is behind them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e889	The representative, Tellef Inge Mørland, then mentioned the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e894	Good mental health is important for good quality of life, mastering everyday life, school and work. For too long, psychiatry has not received the attention it deserves. While mental health lay in the shadow when Jonas Gahr Støre was Minister of Health, it has been lifted as a big effort with the Right in government. The waiting times for mental-health care for children and young people have fallen, and for the Right, the most important thing is that children and young people get the right help when they need it, not who offers it. That is why we have introduced free treatment options, and this has made it possible for several people, regardless of the size of the wallet, to choose the treatment they themselves want in the field of mental health. Everyone needs safety and predictability when disease strikes. This is why the government has put in place a mental health package that allows those in need of help and relatives to know what is going to happen, when it is going to happen, and who is responsible for it. At the same time, we have also strengthened the provision of municipal assistance. There is a requirement for psychologists in municipalities, health centres and school health services to be strengthened by about 1.3 billion. Dr, and the number of years of work in the field of drugs and mental health has increased by 2,500 since 2016. But I'm worried that there are many people who have felt lonely during the pandemic. It can also cause more mental distress among people, and therefore it is important that we continue to work to escalate mental health care, as the government parties have done – together with the Progress Party – in recent years. This is also why the government parties and the Progress Party will continue to increase the use of contract specialists in the field of mental health protection, which has also been the government's policy. To the right, the patient is the most important. It is professionals, researchers and health professionals who are best placed to develop good services for patients based on the best medical knowledge available. Our task as elected representatives is to help patients get the best treatment possible, not that as elected councillors, we do not have the treatment to be provided in different hospitals. I would also like to say that the number of daily places in the psychiatry for children and young people has remained stable over many years. In 1998, there were 296 places; in 2019 there were 301 places for daily treatment for children and adolescents. Nevertheless, it may be that the pandemic causes the need to change, and therefore it may be wise to wait to make any changes to the pandemic situation clearer. With that, I'm going to deal with the proposal that we're behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e909	Then the representative Mari Holm Lønneth has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e914	The number of young people reporting mental health disorders is increasing. This is why we have implemented measures in recent years, such as: demands for access to psychologists and a strong growth in the number of health care providers. In addition to some pilot projects and pilots, several package sequences and escalating schedules have been set up, and additional funds have been allocated for several auxiliary telephones and the golden rule, which has given shorter waiting times. But the interaction between municipalities and specialist health services is still not good enough. I record that the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and the SV propose that the government should provide access to rapid mental health care and low-threshold services without reference in all municipalities. I find it very strange that you are so concerned with local democracy and therefore opponents of the Progress Party's arrangement to make the whole health chain stately, while constantly promoting proposals for detailed management of the municipalities. These parties must soon decide: do they trust their own municipal politicians or not? The mental health protection of children and young people in Norway is lacking, we know that. However, the Progress Party does not wish to have a public investigation now. What we need now is real action. The contract specialists system can ensure that more patients receive an offer from private psychologists. When I took up my concern about long waiting lists with the government parties, they immediately met my desire to extend the system of contract specialists in the field of mental health protection. It has now become clear, at the Committee's examination, that almost the entire Committee supports this proposal. In addition, the Progress Party, together with the government parties, is committed to exploiting the capacity of private and non-profit institutions to ensure a good offer for those in need of mental health care. I find that for the other parties, the care of the mentally ill is limited to offering increased offers only if the increased capacity occurs within the public sector. That ideology trumps human life is totally unacceptable to me. The Progress Party and the Government Parties increased the allocation of regional health enterprises by 250 million. NOK 2021 to increase the volume of purchases of services by private operators in order to reduce waiting times. In the context of the National Health and Hospital Plan, an investigation was started into the future capacity of paediatric psychiatry. The time for setting up good daily places in juvenile psychiatry is not now. It has long been a well-functioning institution that has been crucial for many young people. Several of these have made contact and told their stories. Therefore, the Progress Party promoted a proposal to stop the Hospital of the Inland until we have a better overview of the overall need. I am pleased that this will be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e929	In this case, the Centre proposes a wide review of the supply of children and young people in need of help for mental distress and suffering and measures to strengthen children and youth psychiatry in Norway. The SINTEF report on municipal mental health from 2020 shows that the supply of children and young people with serious problems is worse than that of adults. It should not be respected that the most vulnerable children with the most serious suffering receive a poor supply. There is no planer missing in this area. We can read about the same in Barneombode's report "I should have had the BUP in a suitcase", which he has as his title. The challenges in the field are well-known, but mental health protection is not well enough today to meet the rights of children to the best possible health care. The UN report, which came after this proposal for a representative was written, is also ready for weaknesses in the supply of child and youth psychiatry today. The UN Children’s Committee also points out that mental health protection for children and young people in Norway is too poorly developed. The children's care centre asks us to think about something new, listen to the experiences of children and young people, and adapt the services to the special needs of children and young people for flexible services. Children’s care is concerned about long waiting times, different assessment practices, lack of flexibility in treatment, the competence of those providing treatment to children with complex disorders, and the distribution of responsibilities between the BUP and the municipal health service. We are currently missing a systematic overview of the number of rejections, referrals and complaints. Today, children and young people do not have enough information about their dishes. The Central Party believes that there is a need for increased capacity in child and youth psychiatry, and we propose this in a proposal. We need, for example: better outpatient services and decentralised outpatient services. At the same time, it is important that this does not go beyond a necessary level in bed places. There is a need to ensure the recruitment and training of both medical specialists and other specialists before the BUP. We suggest bringing down a wide-ranging selection of mental health services for children and young people, among others. in the light of the findings of both the Ukoms and Barneombode reports. The selection must look at the link between assistance, provision in the municipal health service and the specialist services. We also suggest that children and young people under the age of 18 should be placed in a separate department, not in the crop department, nor weekend or evening. So to the proposal on contract specialists: that this becomes the only plural proposal outside the Circuit Señor, I think I'm sorry, because this is not the solution to what we're asking for in the proposal, and it requires increased funding. I'll come back to the Circuit Clock in another post, but I want to discuss the proposal from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e946	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e952	Sitting on Stortinget for a period of time and being a member of different committees can sometimes be an advantage. So I'll say as Canada's prime minister says, better is always possible. With regard to mental health, in particular for children and young people, the majority of today’s majority have been making considerable efforts since 2013 to improve the supply of both children and young people and mentally ill in general. The action plan for the mental health of children and young people is one of the examples. National health and hospital plans are definitely an example of this. We have renamed the former health care sisters, today called health care nurses. There are more community psychologists than ever. The capacity both in the primary health service and I also believe in the specialist health service has increased significantly since 2013. It is also the case that the development of competences, research, the provision of treatment in mental health, including in the field of medicine, is in a raging state of development. We're looking at it in the area by area. This means that there will be some refurbishment of the service, and it will also depend on where it is offered. When you get all the way down to the Circuit Tuna, this kind of debate really becomes very detailed, but we in India are in the middle of a hospital debate about the refurbishment of the hospital offer. The turnaround tone blends into that debate. What has not been mentioned here is the somewhat unexplained situation with regard to the role and the offer of municipalities in the continuation. In Finland, there has not been a single community merger, and the Circuit Tuna offers a wide area, not just within the municipality of Lillehammer. It is not given that the municipality of Lillehammer will take on all the roles of the local authorities. They have that role in the provision of elderly and specialist beds. But it's a step to take over the responsibility for the Circuit Tuna, and what offer are they going to make there in the continuation? I am very happy that everyone really agrees that the time is not now to shut down the Circuit Tuna, because for many reasons that capacity is needed now. In this area, around Lillehammer, there have been major challenges, including: with suicide for a period of time. It argues whether it was random or not, but it was unusually many a few years. Eating disorders have also been transmitted through the mills. There has been an offer both at Reinsvoll and Lillehammer, so I am very happy that this is not the time to wind up the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e965	I notice that an overall committee expresses concern about whether children and young people with mental health challenges receive a sufficiently good offer in the specialist healthcare service. The government, in its commitment to mental health for both children, young people and adults, has shown that this is a high priority area, ever since we assumed government responsibility in 2013. The size of the population was at the core of health policy, as presented in the Roadmap for children and young people’s mental health and in the National Health and Hospital Plan. The overall objective in the field of mental health remains to facilitate children, young people and adults to live as normal a life as possible, even though they may sometimes face mental health challenges. Therefore, strategies and actions in this area build on the desire to participate in society through work, school, sport, cultural life, etc. For most people, this is an important way to good health, and we know that it is possible to achieve too many people when there are good interactions between different sectors of society and we have good health services that work together across levels. The government has put in place several measures to strengthen health care and to facilitate everyone's life as normal as possible. The list is long, and I would like to mention the strengthening of health and school health services, demands for psychologist services in the municipalities, extensive cross-border and multidisciplinary cooperation with outpatient teams, several outpatient services, cooperation actions between Nav and healthcare, package trajectories in the field of mental health and health care and the establishment of a health community. Services are changing and developing. The ability to change is a prerequisite for the continuous use of foreground. Health regions cooperate with the Health Directorate, KS and user organisations on the future need for mental health services. This will be an important part of the basis for new regional development plans, which will also include mental health services. I have noticed the two proposals for decisions in the vote. The proposal of a Joint Committee on the increased use of contract specialists is in line with government policy, and it is therefore easy to agree to this. I take note of the proposal for a decision by the majority to ask the government to stop the closure of the Circuit Tuna. I note that the Committee does not have any further comments in its recommendation. I also perceive that in previous cases not very long ago, a decision has been taken that would, at any time, stop any plans to close daily services, and see this in conjunction with the assessments that are now made of what is needed after the coronary apathy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e986	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e991	47 pst. by young people between 16 and 19 years of age are chronic, according to a study conducted by Opinion published in the VG. The Labour Party has been concerned that we need to put in place a crisis package in the field of mental health because the situation is serious, especially among young people. At the same time, we hear the representative Holm Lønsenth use half of his contribution to the self-crusade of what the government has done. However, the Children’s Ombudsman points out that there is an urgent need for effective action for children and young people in the field of mental health protection. The government parties are voting against it today, most of the proposals for just action. Is it such that, in this context, the Minister of Health is satisfied with today's offer, and is he sure that, under a worsening covid-19 situation, we are now able to protect children and young people so well that it does not have long-term consequences for mental health?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e998	No, I'm not satisfied with the state of things, and that's also why, despite a significant commitment to children's and young people's mental health, we are in the middle of an escalation plan that continues, and we need to strengthen the supply of children's and young people's mental health further, not least on the prevention side and early efforts. It is important, as the representative is concerned, to look at what the need will be as a result of the pandemic we have been through. Because although the government has a strategy to deal with the coronary apathy, which is to protect children and young people as much as possible in terms of interventions, and to facilitate the fastest response to children and young people, we will not be able to get through this pandemic without some children and young people remaining with long-standing negative consequences of the measures that have been needed in the context of the pandemic. It is an important work that we are in the middle of, looking at what action it is then necessary to take. I expect that when the government parties vote against a number of proposals, it is because one believes that these are measures that one already works with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1003	One of the measures behind today's opposition is the Circuit Tuna. In many ways, the cross-sectional tone is an expression of the question of where the policy is concerned as regards the need for day-to-day places in the area of childhood and youth psychiatry. We get a lot of feedback about that, for example. Eating disorder challenges appear to be increasing. Media can tell you about 11-year-olds who have been admitted to this background of mental health protection. But then the government parties are voting against the proposal that the majority of the committee was behind, at least when the vote was taken, while the Left's representative says that time is not over. Yeah, at least it doesn't give you long-term. The proposal made by the government parties does not say anything about what you actually want with the Circuit Tuna as such. How do government parties actually assess the general need for daily places in children’s and young people’s psychiatry? With regard to the special situation around the Circuit Tuna, what does the Minister of Health really think about the continuation of it, and how will he possibly follow up a decision that has a different wording to that of his own party traps themselves in the committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1010	Of course, we follow up the decisions that Stortinget makes, which we always do. I agree with what I believe has been a bit of the entrance to this discussion, namely that making offers now, or changing offers now, in a situation where we are in the middle of a pandemic, and where there may be uncertainty about what will be the need in the future – that is what both I and the government parties believe is not right. There had not been any plans for that either, because the discussion about the Circuit Sedan is about something that was going to happen in the autumn, not something that was to happen now. Then one might have had more knowledge of it at that time. There is now a great deal of work that I have undertaken to assess what is the actual, real need for mental health in the years to come, not least in relation to daily places. However, Norway remains a country that is high in relation to comparable countries in terms of daily psychiatry use.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1017	The government said that they have been giving priority to mental health protection for many years. Nevertheless, the report from Barneombodet is a very strong criticism of today's supply, and the same weaknesses showed Ukom, who has followed patients and reported on it. I mean, these are reports that can't be ignored. One is required to get hold of them, and one is required to look at child and youth psychiatry and get a real boost and a capacity boost in line with what is needed. So now there's a decision on more contract specialists, and it's not the Center Party, but we think there's going to be a lot more to get real strength, better recruitment, etc. So what will the Council of State do with these reports?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1022	Yes, there are reports that we take very seriously. If it was the government's view that we had finished our efforts on children and young people's mental health, I understand very well the objections that come from the opposition, but that is definitely not the case. The government is very clear that we need to continue to invest in child and youth mental health services, and that it is an important area of government activity. It's been all the way, even for all four parties that are behind the government, and that have also themselves been a member of the government, like the Progress Party. This has been a common field of activity since 2013, and we believe that the job is not finished. That's one of the reasons why we're going to elections to continue in government after this election this year, because we believe that there's still a need for these four parties to focus on children's and young people's mental health, because it's really an area where there was a need to pick up and really bet on after eight years of red-green governance, where this area wasn't prioritised.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1027	I think it's just a little special that one gets such enormously critical reports of the state of things when the government itself has said that it has been a bet on it for so many years. I get some feedback from mothers in the Stavanger region that tells me that there are no daily places for young people, and that they are actually referred to child protection and the single measure there. I've brought this up with the Council of State before, and he's promised to look at it. We have a proposal today that says that children must be entitled to their own departments, and that of course this must be an offer in all health regions. What's happening in the Stavanger area, I think is something that one can't let go on. We need to get this sorted out. Can the Council of State say that it is – and should be – unacceptable that children with mental illness are referred to child protection because there are no daily places in mental health protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1034	As the representative knows, I have had contact with some of the same mothers – I believe. I also believe it is important that if a child or a youth needs diurnal treatment in mental health, they should receive it, not least when it is acute. However, this does not mean that there can be no children in a situation where care services must be provided by child protection, while at the same time receiving a mental health offer. It's in those cases where you don't need a 24-hour stay in psychiatry. In this case, a few child protection offers, which are concerned with the provision of care, at the same time as a few outpatient services, can be offered on a daily basis in the field of mental health. It must not be that we believe that children who cannot live at home with their own families are to be admitted to long-term psychiatry. I think that would be the wrong way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1040	I believe that the government and the Swedish government disagree a little with regard to prioritizing mental health or not. We have spent more money in our draft state budget. But I also want to commend the government. Proposal 4 of the Health and Sickness Plan 2020-2023 meant that it should be easier to block children’s records, so that others, for example: The parents, can't look at what the children have said to the psychologists, and I've been told that it has happened. So thank you so much! Then we also have another proposal, which is to review health legislation to ensure that it is in line with the principles of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Does the Council of State and the Government work to review this law?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1049	We have a number of major legal reviews. Among other things, the next debate will be about a very important area around this, namely the work we are now doing with a new law on enforcement. In all these contexts where we work on the law, we are concerned that the laws we recommend to the Storting are within the conventions that we have committed ourselves to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1054	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1059	The Labour Party has on several occasions put forward proposals for a series of measures and new policies in this field to improve the follow-up and treatment of children and young people with mental health problems. Many people feel very bad, too many, and they need all the help they can get in different ways in different phases to be able to live better, yes, a good life – the sooner, the better. It is good that the Senter party is on the verge of this proposal for a representative. For us red-green, now and in government, this policy area is very important. Then I have to mention two of my favorites for almost 16 years here at Stortinget, really long before that too: more money for the specialist health service and not least a better community economy. For years we have proposed more than what the government has done and got in place, because money affects a lot. Like Mørland, I don't accept either – or when both are needed. Daily places are needed, and outpatient services are needed. We're going to stop the construction of several daily places, and we're going to bet on an ambulance team. I refuse to accept that outpatient services are offered on a daily basis. We need enough voluntary admission for those who need it, more than daily services, and for those who need long-term treatment, and where outpatient and outpatient services are not sufficient. Again, it is not either – or, as has been argued in the case of cut at the Circuit Tun in Lillehammer, which I am pleased that many have mentioned – not that we enjoy cutting, we do not at all, but that the Circuit Tune gets that attention. So one could say that this is detail control. No, this is not detail control. It's really an important symbol thing for us. Then I'm glad that we get a majority to secure this child- and youth-psychiatric offer in Lillehammer, but it covers a geographical area far larger than Lillehammer. There's a lot of people here who've been engaged. I have received many enquiries. Most of the impression was that the phone I got from a young girl with eating disorders told me that the Circuit Seine had meant everything, and she was willing to really stand on the barricades ahead, and we're standing with her.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1076	Today, we do not have enough knowledge of the state of child and youth psychiatry, for example. on the need for daily space, what to do. Probably one of three referrals is rejected, and we don't know enough about what happens to those kids and young people who are rejected after a referral to the specialist services, and how it goes with them. That is the background to one proposal we have today that we need to work out a kind of duty or structure, so that the specialist services assess all referrals and ensure further action elsewhere in the healthcare system. Of course, the centre party is very happy that there will be multiples today to preserve the Circuit Seine. It was decided by the Inland Hospital, and it happens while the Health Directorate has been commissioned by the government to outsource the need for mental health protection, particularly among others. the need for daily places. In the National Health and Hospital Plan, there would be a thesis on mental health protection, in which the government itself said that one does not have enough knowledge of the future need, and therefore the Health Directorate was responsible for this. That's what they're doing right now. Then it's very special that a health care provider can go in and decide that there's more to it than the government and the Health Directorate, where one should put down daily places. Looking at what was the framework for the distribution in the interior, one of the frameworks was that future supply should remain within the given framework of the Long-term Economic Plan 2020 and the annual budget. It is clear that a few to the increase in outpatient services and decentralised services that are obviously needed have no choice but to cut down on daily places. But the point is that it's an explanation, but it's definitely not right. In a situation where a national says that this needs to have more knowledge before proceeding with an additional reduction of daily capacity, it is wrong that a person does what one has done in the country. I'm glad there's been a stop for it, and there will also be similar other places in the country. When the Health Directorate comes up with its report, we get more knowledge about what is the real need and the right balance. But there must be no economic cuts in this area, because it will at least punish itself in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1085	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1102	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President, 3 minutes to other party groups and 3 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1109	The question of whether the lack of decision-making competence, or what is in today’s legislation’s consent competence, shall be a general condition for forced use in healthcare will be considered in the context of the follow-up to the proposal of the Forced Restriction Law Committee. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State has informed that it will present a legislative proposal as soon as possible. Thus, this matter is a sort of play to the big matter we're about to get about the follow-up of the NOU on forced use. We can enjoy it, it's an 850-page NOW that's at the root of this. Questions can be asked about the number of evaluations to be carried out. The majority of the Committee considers that there is no reason to carry out a further evaluation now, as several evaluations have been published on this subject and work has been done on a proposal for coercive legislation, as has been said to be under way. The government has announced that a number of changes in the law on coercion will be consulted before the summer, but it has also been announced that the actual legislative proposal is not ready during this peak period. In any case, it may not seem appropriate to adopt new policies around this area now. That's what the majority uses. There are parts of this, as is also stated in the proposal, a unanimous committee considers particularly important, for example. in the transport of patients and in the transport of medicinal products. Some are about transportation to forced mental health protection or medication where people oppose or outlaw this. Opposing police intervention is quite natural if you have not done anything wrong. Psychiatric nurses, protective nurses or other appropriately qualified nurses will often be better able to handle and interpret signals from people with mental disorders than both police and normal ambulance staff. Unfortunately, not all health professionals have been equally concerned about this, and many have discontinued this initiative despite, for example: The Oslo police have wanted this offer, and despite the fact that the Western Week psychiatriambulance project received only positive feedback. The Committee agrees that psychiatrybulance is both an important and appropriate offer to meet the very sickest and to minimise the use of coercion. The Committee also agrees that the use of coercive measures should continue to be closely monitored. There was a big debate a few years ago, also in this Chamber, and it requires careful follow-up. It is also necessary to ensure that patients who need it receive treatment that can improve them, and it is fine that the Council of State in this case indicates that the Health Directorate will publish new technical advice on the prevention of forced forced labour in the first half of 2021. Two non-majority proposals are put forward. They are about an evaluation and a review of coercive use within this field. These proposals do not receive a majority on the grounds that a person is awaiting notification of new guides from the Directorate and that new proposals, as I said, should be sent to the hearing before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1124	What we're dealing with now is, at least for me, a very demanding political field, and I think that's too much. Of course, for the Workers' Party, it is important that people who are suffering from severe mental illness continue to experience autonomy in their own lives. So the question is how we make a law that best captures it, while in the most optimal way possible we can help people who are in a desperate situation. Unfortunately, we see that too many ports in a round dance where they may be written out too early and have to go back into the system, and along the way just get worse and worse. We also have a few cases, a few very few cases, where we see that this also affects the environment, because you can't give good, adequate treatment and follow-up to this group. The working party therefore considers that there is a need to evaluate the introduction of consent requirements for admission to forced mental health protection. That doesn't mean we've concluded. I also believe that we should have followed up the changes that were made in 2017, that it would give us better knowledge today, but unfortunately the Workers' Party and the Centre were voted down on that point in their time. I would like to stress that although we now want an evaluation, we also want to avoid coercion. But maybe it is that today's system in the worst case can contribute to more use of coercion for some, because they get worse when they're not able to get the help they need, and maybe they don't even see the need. I think this is a field where we're never going to be able to make a law that hits absolutely all cases 100 pst. But we should strive to get even more precise on this part. The case rapporteur, Stensland, also has a point when he points to the committee's proposal. However, the challenge here is that it was already clear in June 2019, and as the case-rapporteur now says, this bill will not be ready during this enlargement period – so it is still going to be a long time before we in Stortinget deal with the matter. Then we do not get these clarifications in quite a long time, and therefore we believe that the proposal for a representative of the Central Party, with the proposal that lies there, is a wise one. We get many feedback that this is demanding, but there is also a need to make some adjustments to the course in this field. Finally, Stensland was in on what goes on in psychiatrybulance. That is where I agree, and I think we broadly agree that it should be lifted. I also get a lot of feedback that this is a challenging group to deal with both for police and for ordinary ambulance staff in many cases, and that may not provide the optimal handling for the patient as such. So this is a project we hope Höie will now make a contribution for, lift it and take it further, for the best for the patient group this is about. With that, I address that proposal the Labour Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1139	The representative, Tellef Inge Mørland, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1144	It must be a general rule that all types of health care should be based on volunteering. Force is experienced by the individual as a major offense, and trust in health care falls dramatically. It's obvious that even if coercion is sometimes absolutely necessary, it also creates an increased morbidity. I have met some of those who have been subjected to various enforcement methods in the health care system, and many of them never get over what they were exposed to. So coercion can cause serious and eternal wounds. That's why we have to do everything we can to minimise forced use, and therefore the Progress Party supported the amendment of the law in its time. The evaluation by the Center for Medical Ethics from 2019 shows that the amendment of the law has probably led to increased legal certainty and improved the possibility of user involvement. The introduction of consent competences into the law and the practice of the term is subject to a thorough evaluation by the Medical Ethics Centre of the University of Oslo on behalf of the Health Directorate. The results shall be available in 2023. The aim is to increase awareness of the importance of legislative changes. A revision of all coercive homes, based on the recommendations of the Committee on the Law of Forces, NOU 2019: 14 The Enforcement Act – Proposals for common rules on coercion and intervention without the consent of the Health and Welfare Service, will be very important and lengthened. The question of whether non-consenting competence should be a general condition of coercive use in healthcare will be considered in the context of the follow-up to the proposal of the committee. It is important to note that the introduction of consent competence does not apply to patients who present a risk to their lives or to the lives or health of others. In some cases, police assistance will be needed to protect employees and patients and to use power in contexts where health professionals do not have access to it. The Progress Party was given the opportunity to establish psychiatry ambulances in all health regions, the aim of which was to establish a decent and health-friendly transport service, where the police would only assist when necessary for safety reasons. Many tasks are about transport to forced mental health protection or medication, where people oppose or act out. Psychiatric nurses, protective nurses or other appropriately qualified nurses will often be better able to handle and interpret signals from people with mental disorders than both police and normal ambulance staff. It is sad to note that not all health professionals have been equally concerned about this and have completed this initiative, despite the fact that the offer has been requested by the police and despite positive feedback. It is comforting to note that an overall committee still believes that psychiatrybulances are important and correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1161	In 2017, Stortinget endorsed the government's proposal on changes to the Law on Mental Health Protection. The most radical change was that there was an additional condition that the patient had to lack the skills of consent in order to be admitted under mandatory mental health protection. Serious mentally ill people could not be admitted or treated against their own will if they were judged to have an understanding competence. The requirement for assent was disputed at the time of its introduction. Several hearing authorities warn against introducing a model in which patients with severe mental illness may more easily refuse to accept treatment for mental health protection because it could have serious consequences for the patient. From a professional point of view, it was warned that the proposal could lead to some patients entering treatment later if the healthcare service was not closed with other follow-up on a voluntary basis. In other words, patients could get sicker before entering the correct treatment. The use of coercion could therefore be at risk of increasing later in the course of the disease. It was also warned that changes could lead to poor treatment prospects and to a reduction in the quality of life of the patients concerned. Another objection was that the change could lead to increased use of conditions that the patient poses a danger to others, thus increasing the use of coercion. In the light of this, the Centre Party and the Labour Party propose to ask the Government to ensure a follow-up evaluation of the changes. This was supported by the SV and the Environmental Party de Green in Stortinget, but that is the case. Now we get a lot of feedback from relatives, patients, health professionals and the police showing the need for such an evaluation. Among other things, police chief Songstad in the West Police District has pronounced: ‘Paradoxically, a change in the law aimed at strengthening patients’ rights has had serious negative consequences for many patients and their relatives. Several serious acts of violence, including killings, are likely to have been avoided.’ These are strong words. The centre party has not concluded in this case about what needs to be done, but we suggest an evaluation based on all the feedback that has come. also from the county play in Westland. When it comes to coercive statistics, he went down from 2016 to 2017, but the further developments in 2018 again show an increase in both coercive, coercive, coercive and protective measures. A change in the law may result in reduced permanence, but not a reduction in the use of coercion. We believe that a real assessment of the terms and conditions of consensual competence is important, and an evaluation of the health and welfare implications of the legislative changes for both patients and society. Forced-use statistics from the Health Directorate for which reference was made are not enough. He does not show how these patients are being treated, and whether or not he will be forced to use other places.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1179	SV shares the concerns of the police, health services and patient organisations that the service is not good enough, but the solution is no longer forced. The solution is that more people get the help they need. Force is not a medicine. The drug is expanding mental health protection with several full and permanent jobs, so that everyone gets the best treatment they can get. 92 pst. patients say they have been terminated prematurely during the course of treatment, at least once. That shows that we have to hire more people. When patients are not able to complete treatment, they are more likely to become even more ill. Those who get sicker need even more time in treatment. Many of the patients know when they need help, but in today's system it may take many weeks, or months, before they get the help they need. As a result, SV has repeatedly proposed multiple user-guided beds in mental health protection. The report clearly shows that those patients who receive this offer need less time in the specialist healthcare service. They can go in, get the help they need for a few days, and then print out. It doesn't cost any more and gives patients more freedom and power in their lives. The 2017 amendment was a necessary adjustment to ensure that people who are competent to consent are given the right to decide. The old practice was contrary to human rights and the CRPD. In comments and proposals, it seems that the Workers' Party and the Centre will have more coercion and coercive medication. The health service is able to use coercion if the person is at immediate risk of his or her own life or of serious health damage to others. SV believes these parties are looking at the problem from the wrong side. The problem is that the service is sparse with all the cuts this government has made. That is why I am promoting proposal No. 2, from SV, on a review of forced use in relation to manning. SV votes in favour of proposals for decisions of the other parties in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1192	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, then addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1197	I agree with many of the points made by the majority in the vote. Lack of consent competence was introduced as conditions for coercive use in 2017, and a quantitative and qualitative evaluation of the use of coercive measures has already been carried out. A national e-learning course on the assessment of consent competence has been developed and the Health Directorate notes the need for further action to clarify or provide training. It is clear from the Granavolden platform that the government will review all coercive homes, based on the recommendations of the Forced Regulatory Committee. The majority in the sample proposes, for example: that today’s diagnostic conditions for forced use are to be replaced by a requirement that the person should, as a general rule, lack decision-making competence, i.e. consent competence in today’s legislation. A consultation note there, among other things: will be presented by the Ministry on the basis of the key proposals of the sample to be sent out before the summer. I agree with the majority of the Committee that there is no reason to carry out a further evaluation now. I believe that this is not appropriate, in the light of the recent evaluations and work on proposals for new coercive legislation. The government has also launched a number of initiatives to prevent the use of coercion and prevent serious and dangerous situations for patients and employees. Among other things, a national training programme on Aggression issues shall be implemented in health enterprises. The Health Directorate has made national professional advice on the risk assessment of violence in the event of a serious mental illness, and in 2021 new national professional advice on the prevention of coercion is published. Assessment of risk factors such as the practice of violence has been included in the package for mental health and alcohol. Active outreach teams such as ACT and FACT teams have also been established for people with severe psychiatric disorders and drug problems. There is also work to clarify the division of responsibilities and tasks between health services and the police, so that police resources are correctly used in health-related tasks. We follow closely in this field of service, and will work to further develop the offer to people with severe mental and drug problems. This is precisely why it is one of four groups to be prioritised by the newly created health communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1210	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1216	As early as June 2019, the Committee on the Restriction of the Law of the Federal Republic of Germany issued its NOU. Now it's clear that the legal proposition itself is not going to be ready during this majority period. In addition to the serious situation we've had around covid-19 of course, what is the reason why it's taken so long to make a follow-up to this NOU to the Stortinget, and when can we expect that it could finally be ready for treatment in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1221	As everyone who's seen the NOU sees, this is a pretty extensive work. Following the submission of the NOU in 2019, it was sent to the hearing, which is common to a NOU. It's not a completely insignificant amount of consultation that's not just about the law, but it's about the consequences of the changes in the law, what are prerequisites for some of the changes in the law to be implemented. There is also a lot of other parallel work going on in this area. Like me, among others. a major effort is being made to address the issue of mental health dimensioning. All of this has to be seen in the context. That is why we have also announced that there will be a separate consultation note on this, where the Ministry's assessments of the legislative proposals in the NOU will also be produced, and it will be sent to the hearing before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1226	I thank you for the answer, and I have a lot of understanding that there is a need to do a thorough job in this field. At the same time, I would like to stress that I get some feedback that there is really a need to work quite quickly with the problem because today there are patients who cannot be followed up in a good way. Government parties do not currently support an evaluation of the change on the introduction of requirements for consent to mandatory mental health protection, and refer to the follow-up that is due but that will continue to take some time. My challenge is then to the Minister of Health: can the Council of State say something about what changes he sees there will be a need to do in this field, and is it now working concretely on it, so that we will be able to capture more effectively those patients in the field of mental health protection to which we are not now reaching well and to which we are not providing a good enough follow-up offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1231	It is working for all in this respect, because the Committee on the Restriction of Law has, of course, been looking at the whole of the legislation in this area. It is a wide-ranging selection, but what is at the heart of the question that I perceive is that the Workers' Party and the Center's party want to be evaluated, namely the 2017 amendment of the law, is something that the Forced Law Committee really reinforces. The Forced Restriction Committee is very clear on the support for the requirement of consent competence. So in reality, that question has also been assessed in a public sample, where one not only proposes to continue the change from 2017, but one also makes it a guiding principle in the whole of the legislation in this area. So I think you've got a very clear answer to the fundamental question that the Central Party and the Workers' Party want to evaluate here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1236	It is, of course, one of the key issues, and what is reflected in the proposal for a representative that has been promoted today. Will the Health Minister venture to give some signals about what he thinks about that particular issue? Is it such that, in the broader approach that the ministry is now taking, he is looking at even greater tightening in this field, or is it seen that the change that was already made in 2017 has also made some conclusions that are demanding? I would like to stress that we are going to have a thorough process on this also for the Workers' Party. But we get some worried feedback that as early as 2017, the changes that happened made it more difficult to help some of the patients in mental health protection who themselves did not ask for help. It became harder to give them long enough help, because they could choose to print out earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1241	Yes, some of those challenges were pointed out by the government itself, when we presented the bill in 2017. These were challenges that could arise as described. But the question again is: do the challenges of using coercion against people who are consent-competent justify? That's what's the core question here. This is a fundamental human rights issue. Should health care be imposed on persons qualified to consent? There's no doubt that health care often helps, we know that, but these are people who don't want that help. And when they are able to consent, I believe that then the threshold for using coercion must be extremely high – and it is linked to the danger to the lives and health of others. So part of the objections that came from the police, I don't think that is so relevant in that context, because there is a danger to the lives and health of others, so you should be able to use coercion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1246	In 2016, the West police district had 1,738 so-called psychiatry missions. Last year the number was 3,300. Last year, the police were armed with 195 of these missions, against 45 in 2016. The police officer in the media says that he believes there is reason to believe that the large increase in the number of assignments can be linked to changes in the laws on mental health protection in 2017. How does the Council of State explain this dramatic increase in the number of psychiatry - related tasks in the police? And does he think that this is a right way to deal with mentally ill patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1251	I want us to use the police as much as possible in these kinds of contexts, but sometimes someone has to use the police if one is in situations where people are at risk to others. That's what I think should be the threshold of that. So I think it's pretty interesting that one in every context when you're talking about these episodes, is talking about mental health. This is mainly also the case of people who are intoxicated. Why does one not refer to this as people who have serious drug problems? It is not that people who have mental health challenges are initially more likely to represent a danger to others than to other people. But it's often the case that if you have a mental health challenge that's serious, and in addition you're in a rush, there's a greater risk of violence. The police consistently refer to these people as people who have mental health challenges, and to a very small extent mention that these are also people who are drugged in that situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1258	SV has a different starting point than the Workers' Party and the Center Party, because we believe that the problem is the crew and not the law. From mental health experience, they have said that 92 pst. of patients have said that they will be terminated prematurely. If they don't complete treatment, they get even sicker, and they can also hurt themselves and others. We have proposed that we look at forced use in relation to manning. I'm worried that there's a bad crew, as experience skills and the other organizations say. The government has always praised itself for being less liney. But if 92 pst. Of the patients, it is easy to reduce the number of queues, but they do not receive good treatment. Will the Council of State look at forced use in relation to crewing?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1265	Some of the background to the work we are now going to do on the proposal of the Forced Restriction Committee is just to look at not just the legislative proposal, but to look at the implications of the legislative changes for the service. It can be about manning, but it can not least also be about physical conditions. As the Commission of Inquiry showed in one of its reports, the physical conditions surrounding the treatment also very often have much to say about the way in which one provides treatment. All those relationships I think need to be resolved, so that we also have a sufficient basis to make decisions to make changes to the law that have, probably, consequences for the way in which a person provides health care. So I'm of the opinion that the answer for that reason is not always that one should be involved in partial treatment within the specialised treatment. On the contrary, for this patient group we see that what works very well is just team-based treatment at home where a living.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1272	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1280	It is a shame that such debates end up dealing with one for or against increased use of coercion. That's not the case. When SV is standing in the pulpit and claims that the Central Party and the Labour Party in this matter really want more use of coercion and coercion medication, that is not true. I have to reject that, so I took the word again. I showed in my previous article on the Forced Statistics. The first year after the law was amended it went down, but in 2018 there was again an increase for both coercion, coercive treatment, coercive measures and screening. When we also look at the statistics from the police, at least from the West Police District, it has been a doubling of psychiatry missions following the amendment of the law, and it has been a fourfold doubling of armed missions. And that a person almost has anxiety about these facts, I think I'm sorry, but that's the way it is in this case. When the Council of State and the Government Party and the SV refer to the so-called evaluations that have been carried out, we think they are not sufficient. They give no answer as to whether serious mentally ill patients are less given the health care they need. Nor can they explain the dramatic increase in psychiatry-related police missions, or whether the legislative changes have led to more power, threats and harm to health professionals. It's just going to continue with the promise we have today, which can lead to extra coercion. What we were warning about before one made this change, the change that had the intention to reduce the use of coercion. The centre party was in spite of all the changes in the law, but we were warned that this could lead to an increase in the use of coercion, either in the healthcare system or for example. with the police. That is because we now have a proposal to get that evaluation, which was also included in SV's report, when we put forward the proposal. The fact that the police consistently refer to this group as ‘psychiatry-related tasks’ and not drug-related — I do not see how important it is. I record that the Minister of Health did not have an answer to the question of the large increase in forced use and others at the police post-statutory. I'm at least very concerned about that, and I also get a lot of feedback about that. The centre party has not decided whether to go back on this amendment, but we think that it would have been very good with a proper explanation of this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1291	I'm glad the Center Party won't have any more coercion. There was a lot of information from the organizations, who were very afraid of this proposal, so I hope they follow it up as well. I also hope that the Centre Party will support the SV's proposal and look at the crew, because there is a major problem in mental health protection, and that they will support something else that we have worked on: having more user-controlled beds. We know that many of these patients know when they need help, and they have to wait for many weeks, months. If they get some time in the hospital, they only need a few days and get better, without having to wait and have many days and weeks in the specialist health care to get better. So I hope the Center Party will support getting more user-guided beds in mental health protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1296	Like Toppe, I also react to the wrong impression SV and Wilkinson is trying to leave, that we have concluded that we want more use of coercion. An evaluation should hopefully never start with a conclusion, but I can at least say that for my part I have received several requests that the change in the law that took place in 2017 has given some consequences that might not have been intended. We also had at the time of its adoption a proposal for an follow-up evaluation that did not get a majority in this Chamber. Tope has given a thorough account of the police's experience. I just have to say that for my part I have received enquiries from municipalities and consultants who say that there is a group of people you cannot help well enough today. I take that very seriously, and it also goes into this problem. This is part of the problem that the Minister of Health says he is working on when it comes to making a new proposal for legislative changes to what is involved in the Forced Restriction Act, and the NOU that is there. There are also a few very few people in this field who experience as a threat to others, perhaps more threats around harassment and the kind of problem we've seen in the media, where you see that they don't get follow-up, they don't get help. We've had all the branches that have said that they can't live a good life because they don't get help. Although the Minister of Health says that those who pose a danger to the lives and health of others should be able to be followed by coercion, the situation today is that I have received several enquiries from people who say that this is not the case. We can't have it like that, and that's why it's natural to look at this. Now I have a expectation that, while doing a thorough job, there must also be a quick job so that the NOU will end up in a matter for the Stortinget so that we can try to address some of the issues that have not been solved in any way. So on until Wilkinson has taken up around the treatment capacity. Here we have agreed completely, both the Workers' Party and I also perceive the Centre Party and SV, about the need for more treatment capacity. That's why we spend more money on both municipalities and specialist health services every year in our budgets. We have repeatedly pointed out that people are being printed out too early. That is why, together with the opposition, the Labour Party has made proposals for example. to stop daily site degradation. That is why, in the previous case, we were concerned with low-threshold health services without references and the prevention component. But there is no contradiction in the fact that we are also actually concerned about how our legislation works in this field, and how we ensure that as much help as possible is given in the field of mental health protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1309	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1314	There will be a small round of lines against SV, which challenge the Center Party if we would not support user-controlled beds. Now that's how we always supported it. I think there was a suggestion about this as late as in the state budget setting, where we were together about it, so one doesn't have to create any more ambiguity than necessary about where the Center Party stands in this matter. That's where we stand. I don't see that there's any reason to vote in favour of today's SV proposal, because that's an alternative to our proposal. That's why we don't vote for what's in the setting. So I just want to say in the end that I've been talking a lot about police records and experiences, but we've also got a lot of mental health records, from health professionals, who also have some of the same opinion that the police have expressed for many places.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1321	The representative, Tellef Inge Mørland, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1326	Just an explanation of why the Workers' Party does not support SV's proposal No. 2, on a review of the use of force and in particular see it in relation to manning: it is simply because I think it would be a very demanding proposal to implement. Because when can one conclude that there is a lack of staff that is the reason for the use of coercion – and when it is not? On the other hand, we are concerned by the Labour Party that enough staffing is an important tool to reduce the use of coercion, but unfortunately I see that it will be very difficult to have a proper and good review with a concrete result, based on proposal No. 2, from SV. That is why we are voting against that proposal, but at the same time we are concerned that we need sufficient staffing and believe that it helps to reduce the use of mental health protection and to improve the follow-up of the individual patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1331	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1348	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1355	I will first make a note of a small error in the setting. The centre party has fallen out of the note from the Progress Party and SV at the bottom of page 3 up to and including the proposal at the top of page 4. Proposal No. 14 on page 7 is thus a proposal from the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the SV. The representative proposal addresses a very serious part of Norwegian reality — an enterprise in which children are involuntarily sent out of Norway or left behind against their will abroad. It's not important whether this happens for cultural or religious reasons. No justification justifies this. Social control and physical and mental honour have no place in our society. This is why the Workers’ Party supports the investigation of legislative changes to ensure that forced residence abroad is punishable. I would like to point out that the Labour Party already presented on 15 June last year a proposal for a representative on action against social control. This proposal was discussed here at Stortinget in January of the year through Innst. 89 S for 2020-2021. The proposal expressed impatience on behalf of children and young people and families affected by negative social control in general and abroad in particular. For several years, this practice that we are now dealing with has been well known. In 2017, the Red Cross reported serious issues involving the enrolment of young people in schools abroad. Our embassy in Kenya reported torture-like conditions for sent children, and the NRK revealed conditions for young people on the inside of Koran schools in Somalia. In 2018, the Police Directorate reported on children sent to prevent Norwegian child protection from doing their job. And last year, two new reports came, of which the one from Oslo Economics claimed that at least 415 children had been sent out against their will. In Action Plan against Negative Social Control, Forced Marriage and Gender Harm [[2017-2020]] It may also be worth recalling that, during the discussion of the Workers' Party's proposals in January of this year, the majority expressed the low level of concrete and committedness of the action plan. Good intentions and plans are not sufficient if at the same time resources are not allocated to implement the actions in the plan. Decisions were taken to strengthen efforts to combat social control in municipalities, to enhance the skills of employees and to systematise school work, to review current efforts with feedback to the Stortinget and to provide an information campaign on the obligation to provide information, information and redress. It was also decided to draw up an overview of children living abroad with proposals for increased scope for action on follow-up and return and a programme for follow-up on return, so that a new start can be made for children and young people. Finally, I would like to stress that the Workers' Party expects to follow up on the recommendations of the expert group.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1372	All forms of violence against children are prohibited under Norwegian law, and it is for parents to decide where to live. It follows, however, from the third paragraph of Section 40 of the Children’s Act that children who have reached the age of 12 must consent to a decision to move out of the country or to stay abroad in addition to a shorter vacation stay without one of the parents having parental responsibility. The proponents of the Progress Party address an important issue: children who are being held against their will abroad. A report from Oslo Economics in 2019 showed that 415 children were left abroad against their will in the period 2016-2018. It's scary. The background for parents to send children abroad against their will is often complex and complex. An expert group on young people who are left abroad, called ‘It was not just holiday’, has looked at this. They have collected data from 10 young people who have been involuntarily resident abroad. At the same time, they have examined the matter with several help offices. They have identified reasons for sending children abroad, including:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t restoring the honor of the family Forcible persons prevention of intoxication and crime; to avoid ‘forestry’ and to strengthen cultural affiliation; The Committee fully agrees to take seriously the fact that children and young people are left abroad against their will. If you are sent, the possibilities for help are quite limited. That's why it's so incredibly important to start action at an earlier stage. If you are told or suspected that there is a process of bringing children abroad against your will, contact the Child Welfare Service. They have tools to contribute. They shall protect children from involuntary residence abroad. If this is suspected, they shall immediately investigate it and, where appropriate, cooperate with the police if necessary. The Committee considers that when children and young people are subjected to forced residence abroad, it is necessary to examine whether it can be considered as detention in criminal matters, whether the preparation for acts carried out by parents in Norway is punishable, and whether the instruction or payment for the detention, violence and detention of young people is punishable. I am very pleased that the committee is unanimous in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1400	As we all know, today is March 8th, Women's Day, and I want to congratulate everyone on it. But one of the greatest equality struggles of our time, which is one of the women's days, is just about the issue that this proposal addresses, namely the right to freedom, the right to make decisions in their lives, which most of us take for granted. A report that came a year ago showed that over 400 children have been sent from Norway to abroad against their will for a period of two years. These are individual ships, individual ships that are exposed to both minor and very serious things, ranging from coercion, violence and torture at Koran Schools and other types of social control. These are people who get their freedom removed and are subjected to criminal acts. I think being part of the National Assembly is a great honor and perhaps one of the greatest honours you can have in a country, but one of the most meaningful things I've ever had in my career as a politician is helping an 18-year-old girl out of just such a life. It made sense to me to see what kind of deprivation of liberty and what kind of oppression it is to be placed abroad against his will, and sent – in her case – to a violent Qur'an school. It's also sad when you learn from such fates that they don't get help. Even when they come in contact with the public – whether it's embassy, child protection or anything else – unfortunately, many people feel that they are not getting help. In her case, she was not allowed to use the back entrance at a Norwegian embassy so that she could escape from her parents and return to Norway. I am therefore sorry that no more of the proposals today have received a majority. In fact, none of the 21 proposals made by the Progress Party in the proposal for a representative have received a majority. There is just one proposal that the parties agree on, and that is good, but I would like several of these proposals to have been given a majority. These are proposals such as minimum penalties and own legal frameworks in the area of social control and sending children abroad for criminal purposes. It is also a matter of proposing that just embassies and public bodies should be given clearer guidelines on how to act when someone contacts in a desperate situation, because that is not the case today. Another proposal that, in my view, should obviously have a majority is that Norway, in its dialogue with countries receiving a lot of assistance, for example: Somalia, which last year received a loan from Norway of 3 billion. kr, and which is also a country where we know that there are several violent Koran schools to which Norwegian and European youth are sent – also making demands. These are proposals that would have deserved to have a majority today. Unfortunately, this debate will continue in the future, because we still do not have strong enough measures to tackle this issue once and for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1413	Perhaps the representative will take up the proposals behind the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1418	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1423	The representative Himanshu Gulati then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1428	I would first like to thank the representatives of the Progress Party for addressing this important and serious issue. It's hard for me to understand how children can be left abroad against their will. It is a symptom of something bigger and deeper that we have to crack to prevent it from happening, and it is therefore positive that an overall increase will now investigate the ban on detention in situations where children are sent abroad against their will, with the aim of legal changes to ensure that such can be punished. On behalf of the Ministry of Knowledge, Oslo Economics produced a report, on which others have been involved, in which the local authorities' knowledge of children – at least 415 of them – have been left abroad. The findings showed that there were different reasons why the children were sent out of the country, from responses to child protection involvement and the prevention of their becoming too Norwegian, to strengthen their children’s knowledge of religion, their religious or cultural identity, through their release from criminally charged environments, their children from addiction, the prevention of sexual experimentation — or the arrangement of marriage, and the identification of future spouses. It's these motives we have to live to help the children and not least help their parents from sending the kids abroad against their will. However, in my view, there is an important distinction between whether parents do this out of concern for the welfare and welfare of children, for example, in the case of drug problems or getting them out of criminal environments, and the cases in which parents use foreign residence to deprive their children of their fundamental rights and to exercise social control, for example with arranged marriage. This means that we should have a combination of soft and hard measures. In this way, the government's expert committee has done a good job with the report 'It wasn't just holiday'. Now it is necessary to translate these recommendations into concrete measures. The majority of the proposals supported by the Centre Party today are about to follow up the recommendations of the Committee of Experts. We are impatient about this. In conclusion, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the centre party has actually fallen out of our own note on pages 3 and 4 and our proposal that belongs to it, on page 7 of the vote. Here we point out that we are missing a thorough review and a follow-up to the request decision of the Stortinget to investigate the implementation of government benefits payments in cases where children are sent abroad and kept there against their will. We propose that the government now assess and propose what benefits can and should fall away when children are sent abroad and kept there against their will. Both the comments and the proposal are supported by the SV and the Progress Party. I hope we get the support of several parties to that today. With that, I recommend our proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1443	The fight against negative social control and violence is a struggle for freedom and equality for all, where we must stand shoulder to shoulder with courageous women and men who challenge oppressive structures of power, whether it be Christian sects, conversion therapy or children being held against their will abroad. SV proposed 21 concrete actions against negative social control and violence in 2018, ranging from more minority school advisors and better competences in child protection and health care to better help those who break out of control. There is no doubt that proposals and measures had remedied this situation with children who were held against their will abroad, but those proposals were put to a vote, even with the votes of the Progress Party at that time. Now, when at least 415 Norwegian children have been left abroad against their will in recent years, to which several have referred, it is clear that it has not been done enough. These are children who may be subjected to violence, coercion and abuse, and who may not least miss important schooling here in Norway. We need to do more to help these children. Therefore, SV is involved in several proposals in this matter, and I am very pleased that our proposal to ask the government to enforce the criminal law in this area and to make proposals to ensure that forced residence abroad can be punished is actually adopted. It is clear that much of this is already banned and punishable, but how well this kind of negative social control or abuse is actually affected by the law – yes, there is reason to look at it, so we are absolutely sure that this is being properly punished. We are also involved in 17 other proposals in this matter, which deal with everything from better competence in these matters, alerting the foreign stations and the foreign agencies and better information to those affected, to mention something. But it's going to be voted down, and I think that's a pity. This case again shows, I think, that there are no good ideas and measures that are lacking in the fight against negative social control – it is probably the priorities and the political will on which it stands. That is a pity, and I agree with Mr Gulati that this debate is likely to continue in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1456	Negative social control is a serious social problem that needs to be tackled. We should strive for all children to live free lives both in Norway and in the rest of the world. But unfortunately it's not like that today. That is why this proposal for a representative raises a very important issue: children who are being held against their will abroad. At the same time, the government is already doing a great deal to tackle societal challenges related to this. 37 different actions have been initiated by the Court of First Instance to decide on its own life, which is an action plan against negative social control, forced marriage and sexual mutilation, and further preventive measures, requests from the Storing and government integration strategy, Integration through knowledge. In total, there are seven departments involved in the work and measures to combat negative social control. Negative social control, honor-related violence and coerciveness can be barriers to integration, and it is a challenge that we must ensure the individual's right to make choices. I am therefore pleased that in February 2020, the government decided to follow up the work of a new action plan on freedom from negative social control and honour-related violence, which includes the work against rape and sexual mutilation. During the next planning period, it will also be important to focus on instruments that promote equality, increase participation in society and the right to make choices, and address international challenges. Although there is a lot of good work going on, we have chosen to support the proposal as follows: ‘The government is asking for a criminal ban on detention in situations where children will be, or are already, sent abroad against their will, and for proposals for legislative changes to ensure that forced residence abroad is punishable.’ We do so in the hope that it will help fewer children to experience being sent abroad against their will. We do not support the other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1477	I see the need to strengthen the prevention of involuntary stay abroad and the handling and follow-up of people who have been exposed to it and who return to Norway. Negative social control and honor-related violence are persistent gender equality challenges and public health and social problems that may constitute a barrier to integration. The Ministry of Knowledge is now developing a new action plan against negative social control and honour-related violence. The plan becomes the sixth in the sequence and will apply from 2021 to 2024. It is a challenge for people to be taken abroad against their will, where they can experience violence, detention and forced marriage. Children and adults may be exposed. The reasons behind the stay vary, and so does the need for assistance for the victims. In the new action plan, we are further developing efforts to combat involuntary foreign residence. The government’s expert group has provided advice in the report ‘It was not just holiday’ on how to prevent children and young people from being left abroad against their will. It has 45 recommendations that we consider in the work on a new action plan. It is a fundamental human right to be able to make personal choices, such as the choice of friends, girlfriends, education and careers. Combating negative social control, honor-related violence, coercion and sexual mutilation is about safeguarding the individual’s fundamental rights and preventing exclusion. The government is constantly working on measures against negative social control and honor-related violence. This has led to important challenges being put on the agenda and to cross-sectoral cooperation being put in place. Several specific assistance services for exposed persons are established. These services also contribute to enhancing the competence of ordinary relief services. We have minority advisors in selected schools in all counties, who are close and provide advice and guidance to vulnerable students. In the last two years, we've doubled the number, so that now there are 59 minority advisors in selected high school and high school. Furthermore, we have integration advisors at four foreign stations, covering countries from which major immigrant groups in Norway come. The integration advisor provides advice and guidance to the exposed person himself, to staff at foreign stations and in the first line service in Norway. An important part of the mandate of the integration advisor is the empowerment of relief services in Norway to better prevent involuntary residence abroad. We also have the multidisciplinary competence team against coerciveness, gender mutilation and negative social control, which is a national council and a guidance service for first-line employees. The school is important to capture vulnerable children and young people. The Education Directorate has a supervisor for the follow-up of children who do not attend school. Many other measures will be included in the action plan. I share the Storting's commitment, and the government will follow up the decisions of the Storing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1498	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1503	I appreciate the involvement of the Council of State in the matter. As you can see from the vote, it is a unanimous committee that is impatient here. I think he has to look at the proposals from the 8 rapporteurs and also many of the comments from the committee which are very impatient from the Stortinge when it comes to putting the committee's proposals into practice. While we wait for this, new children are taken abroad, and new children lose many hope for the future. One issue that has emerged is that dual citizenship, which is now introduced – against the votes of the Labour Party – makes it more difficult to deal with a number of such issues where there is double citizenship within the picture, and where Norwegian authorities thus have a smaller role. What is the Council of State's view of this, and how can it possibly be resolved?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1510	Thanks for the important questions. We believe that double citizenship will not be a factor in keeping more children abroad against their will. We know that many who are subjected to coercion come from countries where, before this winding-up of citizenship, Norway allowed dual citizenship because of international obligations. But I have noticed the turmoil that the representatives of the Workers' Party have shown, and I think that regardless of the decision that the Stortinget has made regarding dual citizenship, these are the underlying reasons we must nevertheless be concerned with. I am sure this is something that the Minister of Knowledge has also noticed, and I should at least make sure that she follows closely this introduction as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1517	Today we are celebrating the Women's Day, and at the same time we know that the proposals of the Progress Party on this matter are unfortunately being voted down in this Chamber today. However, I am optimistic, since the Council of State has said that they should follow up the experts' recommendations in ‘It was not just holiday’, but I am also impatient. On this day we've read about the explosion of child marriages, the explosion of issues concerning social control under the corona. It's approaching a vacation, maybe the boundaries are opening. What I know is that I get questions after every vacation, are the empty school desks that stand there, kids that don't come home. So I wonder, what can we expect the Council of State to initiate measures reasonably quickly, and when?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1524	I thank you for the question. I would first like to say, "Congratulations with Women's Day!" It's an important sign, and especially internationally, we know that it's far from the equality we want. Therefore, it is also important to address such types of issues that are being discussed today. With regard to the 45 proposals that the group of experts made, there are a lot of them that I think are good. It is an important field, and I share the representative’s approach – it is not said that because it has been voted down, it disappears. These are recordings that are included in the work of the Ministry of Knowledge relating to the Action Plan against Negative Social Control. It is, as I said, the sixth in the series, so there are many measures already in place, among other things. in the case of measures in front of a holiday. I do not have an exact time for the action plan to be presented, but it is relatively short time before the Ministry of Knowledge will also present the new one.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1531	One of the reports that came last year also found that in some cases child protection has supported and paid air tickets in cases where families have wanted to send their children abroad, including, as far as I understand, children who may have been subjected to negative social control. I would like to know what the Council of State thinks about this, and what he has done to ensure that this does not repeat itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1536	One of the findings was: that the representative points to, and I expect that it has not been conscious, but unconscious. As I said at the time, so did I. Child protection shall be provided to help young people and to prevent precisely that type of incident. One of the most important things we've been focusing on is empowerment. As the representative has also participated through various budgetary rounds, there has been a historical commitment to just competence and, among other things, competence. also with cultural and religious understanding, which is an important part of the work of child protection. I am at least concerned that child protection should not contribute to it, but on the contrary, be inside and reveal when there is a risk that children may go abroad. This is a field where child protection has to play on the team and really be one of the most important defenders of these kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1543	These are quite boundless problems, and I expect the Council of State to have worked closely with both its colleague in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and others on this issue. Therefore, I should like to ask if some of the recommendations made by the expert group behind the report ‘It was not just holiday’ come with exactly that. The Group recommends, and SV suggests in the case, a more operational coordinating function in complex foreign affairs, the same child protection warning obligation for foreign stations and foreign authorities that the passport authorities have received, and more information and guidance to the embassies, so that the children making contact with them are met with sufficient seriousness. I wonder how the Council of State and the Government see this to be followed up in the action plan that is coming, since those proposals are being voted down here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1550	It is true that we are many government councils working on the matter. It is the Minister of Knowledge who was supposed to stand here today, but she is in quarantine, and that's why I'm standing in. The Ministry of Knowledge also owns the action plan, although we work across departments. I might in any case not be able to explain exactly the specific points, because the representative will see when the action plan comes. I am also unable to respond fully to that demand by the representative, but it is clear that all the points that the expert group has included in the report are one of those that are strongly assessed when preparing this action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1555	I have a little follow-up question. I am very pleased that the whole committee and the Stortinge agree with the proposal to ask the government to enforce the penal code in this area and come back with proposals to ensure that forced foreign residence can be punished. I wonder if the Council of State can say anything about how this will be followed up, when the Storting can expect the work to be started, and not least if the Council of State sees any weaknesses in the penal code as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1561	I think what Stortinget decides is good. It's an important topic that's also serious. What I know has been a challenge, has been cooperation with different countries and that there have been different legislation related to what you can do from the Norwegian side. But I am absolutely sure that the Ministry of Justice – I assume it is those who will follow up that case – will carry this out in the usual way with the investigation and hearing and return to Stortinget. It is difficult to estimate the time horizon, but it will take some time because it will require both investigation and consultation, and at least we will be over in 2022 before you can make a proposal to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1568	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1575	It is still mentioned in the Chamber here that this proposal does not receive a majority. I think it is necessary to say that the Workers' Party believes that we are well covered by appropriate measures to prevent negative social control and measures for children kept abroad against their will, through the proposals we made on 15 June last year. As I said in my post instead, we got in the treatment of Inner. 89 S for 2020-2021 majority for a number of actions. We now believe that it is time to await the government's proposals and action plan that we see them going well. We are going to follow that work very closely and possibly come back if further references are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1582	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1599	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1606	This is a proposal for a representative to transfer the authority from the county to the municipalities under the Law on Holiday Peace. The proposal will allow municipalities to adopt temporary and permanent derogations from the restrictions imposed by the law for opening hours to fixed outlets on Sundays and public holidays. Furthermore, municipalities will be able to identify areas where the opening time limits are not to apply. In other words, this proposal for a representative means the liberalisation of the Holiday Peace Act. Increasing municipal autonomy can in itself be a good thing, because it means making decisions closer to people. However, this proposal from the Progress Party will undermine the protection that national rules are intended to provide. The prohibition that fixed outlets sell goods to consumers on Sundays and public holidays takes care of important societal concerns. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that the Holiday Peace Act already provides for exemptions for outlets that essentially sell kiosks or groceries and have a total sales surface not exceeding 100 m 2, as well as outlets that essentially sell flowers, plants and other gardening items. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that there is a sufficient number of outlets that are open on Sundays, and that we definitely do not need any more. The trade union movement is opposed, the trade is opposed, the environmental movement is opposed, the voluntary organisations are opposed, and the population is opposed. Local business will also be harmed by seven-day weeks. Sunday-open shops will primarily serve the large food chains, which have large enough personnel for proper manning. Then the chains will be able to compete for smaller shops that are not rusted to keep open seven days a week. We also have to remember that very many of the employees in the commercial industry are mothers and fathers who like to be free when the children are free, and for the Christian People's Party roads that know the care of the children and the family heavy. The Christian People's Party believes that everyone needs Sunday, this one day of the week where one can count on most people having freedom, a day that also creates room for events, activities and fellowship in the direction of volunteers such as cultural life and sport, a day that one can go on worship, on tour in the mountains or just be. It's good for the individual human being, and it's good for our public health. Therefore, the Christian People's Party wants to protect on Sunday, on the different day, for everyone, completely regardless of the municipality in which they live. So we are not voting in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1624	It happens from time to time that politicians have a huge need to solve problems that people don't have, and this is a good example of it. There is no requirement for people in Norway to change the thousand-year tradition that Sunday is a separate and special day. Neither employees' organisations nor the population as a whole agree with the Progress Party that we should abolish Sunday as a different day. Although this proposal does not go as far as many previous Progress Party proposals, we know that it is what the Progress Party really stands for. It would have been fine if it was full freedom of choice, and that those who wanted to work on Sundays could work on Sundays, and those who wanted to do business on Sundays could act on Sundays. But this is a matter of collective decision. It is not that Sunday can be retained as an alternative day if it is no longer an alternative day. Nor is it the case that the employees of the trading company are free to choose which days they will work or not. This debate does not have to be long, because there is a broad consensus in the committee to reject the proposal. However, I think it is quite paradoxical that the Progress Party, which is concerned with Norwegian traditions, should abolish something that has a thousand-year tradition. I do not know which other days you would rather have as holidays. It is also strange that the Progress Party, which is still marketing itself as a family-friendly party, makes a proposal that will weaken the possibility for the family to be together on a holiday. The views of the Labour Party on this are clear. We want to call about Sunday as an alternative day and a holiday.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1635	Of course, on the basis of how the Stortinget has been put together in this parliamentary term, the Progress Party is aware that they are not getting a majority in favour of the proposal we are discussing today. This is one of several representatives they promote after they left the government to raise their primary positions, and of course they should be allowed to do so. Then I would like to admit that the Right Programme speaks both to give the most local self-government possible and to better adapt the opening hours of the commercial industry to the time when consumers themselves want to act. But in negotiations on majority and government, we have said that other policy areas are far more important to us. It is also worth recalling the request decision 439, from January 2018. There the majority asked the government – against the votes of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left – not to liberalise the rules of Sunday trade. In 2017, the NOU was presented ‘On a Sunday?’. It deals extensively with parts of the issues we are discussing today. The committee concluded that more liberal opening time rules on Sundays would mean that more people would have to work on Sundays and holidays – perhaps not very surprising – more people would have to work part-time and that greenhouse gas emissions from the trade in goods could increase marginally. Furthermore, the sample wrote that full liberalisation of opening hours can lead to greater competition and reduced profitability for the district stores because Sunday is a day when people are largely free and thus can choose to act in the larger agglomerations. Similarly, large parts of the operators in the commercial sector did not see themselves at the time of substantial liberalisation. The right shares the concerns of the proposers that today’s system of responsibility for possible opening up of Sunday trade to state administrators has several weaknesses. There are also several examples of different treatments. What's a typical tourist resort? The coastal site of Larkollen in Moss is an example where the local government has on several occasions wanted to open up Sunday trade in the summer months. But the state administrator has said no, while he has said yes in other municipalities in the same state. The answer to that concern should, of course, be that, together, state administrators and municipalities may define more clearly what must be the basis for being a tourist destination.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1646	This proposal is not about Sunday open in Norway, an impression the representative Trond Giske tried to give, and a debate the Progress Party would like to take. No, this proposal is about who will decide whether a region is a tourist destination or not, with the consequences it entails. For the Progress Party, this is about three things. It is about municipal self-government, that municipalities should be allowed to make important decisions on their own territory, it is about non-discrimination, that we should not have unfair distortions of competition and unequal conditions of competition that seem senseless and unreasonable, and it is also about using common sense. Let me give you two examples that illustrate why the law is so wrong today. One example is from Sørlanden and Agder, where the County – or State Manager, as it is now called – rejected the wishes of the municipalities of Arendal to keep Sunday open during the summer but accepted the applications from all other coastal municipalities east of the county. This means that typical tourist resorts in Agder in the summer get to keep Sunday open because they are tourist resorts, while Arendal didn't get this opportunity. Another example is from my area, Lørenskog municipality, where a cross-political majority – 44 against 3 votes, including the representative Giske’s party – voted that SNØ, the new indoor ski resort in Norway we can all be proud of, is not allowed to be a tourist resort. So while families – who were also very concerned with the representative Giske – can go to the Beitostoel and other areas and go to the sports store if they break a staff, lose a glove or need new skiers on a Sunday, one cannot do so if you go skiing on SNØ on a Sunday, because the municipality is not allowed to define SNØ as the tourist resort it is, although it is an international tourist resort that receives both Asian tourists and skiers from other parts of Europe on a visit. Today's legislation, where the Governor has this authority, has led to unfair distortions of competition and non-discrimination, and that is very, very negative for municipal autonomy. I will admit that in the debate on Sunday open, which the Advance Party would like to take, we are a little alone. We don't have the majority with us. However, in these cases locally, the cross-political majority is often much larger, from far off on the left to the Progress Party on the right. I wish the Stortinge could have seen a little past traditional ideological and partial dividing lines and tried to find good solutions for the best for municipal self-government and, in particular, the inhabitants and tourists who take advantage of the offers at these places that are typical tourist resorts. I refer to the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1669	The representative of Himanshu Gulati has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1674	At least this proposal has the result that there are going to be more Sunday open shops. If the desire of the Progress Party was only to look at what is tourist areas or not, then it will be to shoot sparrows with cannons, because this will open up more Sunday-open shops in Norway, and we know that the Advance Party also wants that. So there's no point in withdrawing this debate, because it's a very clear majority against the liberalisation of this law, both here in this Chamber and among the Norwegian people. It is nevertheless worth mentioning that it is quite revealing in terms of the difference in the freedom of parties like the Progress Party on the one hand and us in SV on the other, because while the Progress Party is committed to having more freedom to act even on Sundays, I am occupied by the freedom of those who actually have to work there in that store on Sundays – like my old neighbour at home in Sarpsborg, who has worked in the store for many, many years, a well-adulted lady. The party does not want her and her colleagues to have a day off with their families. No, even on Sunday they can be outsourced to work with the policies of the Advance Party, because the Advance Party will have the freedom to shop that day as well. Then there is a question and a balance: whose freedom is most important, for whom is it to be asked, what freedom to protect? I am more concerned with the freedom of my neighbor not to have to work all the days of the week – freedom for workers. That freedom must also be protected and not eroded, as this proposal will do. I think it's positive that those who work at the store have a day where they can be at home with their family, one day they know that the kids are at home, and where they don't have to work. It is also very interesting that business and shops, i.e. the trading community, do not want more liberalisation at this point, because they see that it will distort competition and hit small shops, niche shops, shops in the districts. So I find very few reasons to vote in favour of this proposal by the Progress Party. The most important thing for me is the freedom of those who work in the store.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1685	The proposers will strengthen the local self-government by providing municipalities with the current authority of the state administrators. I am concerned that the proposal will undermine the protection of the social rhythm created by Section 5 of the Sanctuary Peace Act. I note that the Committee sees the proposal for a representative as a liberalisation and that the majority of the Committee opposes the proposal. It's important for the family and for society that we have shared holidays. There are already many who have to work on Sundays and holidays, and I believe that we should not add that even more people have to do it. The opening hours in the trade in goods affect not only the employees in the shops but also suppliers, warehouse workers, professional drivers, cleaners and weights. All of these have family and friends to share a common holiday with. Sales from permanent outlets are regulated by Section 5 of the Holidays Act and Holiday Peace Act. The law has 13 exceptions from the ban on retail sale on public holidays. The opening time rules are a compromise between different considerations, such as: consumer interest, employee interest, commercial interest and the wish that Sunday be a different business day. The measure adopted the following request on 31 January 2018, Decision 439: ‘The government is asked not to liberalise the rules on Sunday trade. This so that no more may work on public holidays.» The government endorsed this in my ministry's budget proposal for 2020, which reads as follows: ‘The Government does not aim to liberalise the rules for Sunday trade. The Ministry deems the decision to be followed.» The request decision is one of the reasons why I have not looked into the proposals in NOU 2017: 17, ‘On a Sunday?’ Another reason is that a clear majority of those who spoke in the consultation of the report agreed that opening hours should remain regulated essentially as today. Section 5 of the Holiday Peace Act does not restrict the opening hours of the trade in goods for six days a week. As a consumer, it is for most people easy to trade most of the time before or after normal working hours. Daily groceries can be purchased in many places in the evening after the kids have been laid down. In addition, a number of types of shops have exceptions to the restrictions in Section 5. Thus, there is already considerable flexibility in the Holiday Peace Act through the State Manager’s authority to exempt individual events and to provide regulations on typical tourist sites. This flexibility is well exploited. In 2019, state administrators, at the time the county councillors, had 77 dispensations cases on individual events, about half of which were granted. My assessment is that the Holiday Peace Act provides sufficient flexibility to take care of local concerns that speak for the shops to keep open Sundays and holidays. At the same time, the law contributes to a common day off and a different day for large sections of society. I think it's still going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1712	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1718	There'll be a way of doomsday prophecies from Stortinget's pulpit! What's important for the Progress Party to emphasize is that this actually means survival for many of the small shops, because they live the rest of the week on what they sell on a Sunday. There should be no surprise to representatives from SV or others that the Progress Party is in favour of freedom from public intervention and for less public interference, and we do not believe in any way that anyone should be forced to remain open or forced to act. I don't know if it's the Consumer Minister who's now speaking, but I know that a former party leader from the Christian People's Party also traded on Sunday. My question therefore becomes whether the Council of State is stronger in the belief in the State Manager than he is in the local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1725	Now I thought the question would be whether the council itself had used Sunday open shops. I believe, as I said, that the balance is well maintained in today's law. It's not a complete principle law, but there's a balance between different considerations. So I mean that if one shifts power from the state administrator, it gets a quick break from the principle, and it's more demanding for the different municipalities than someone in general makes the judgements. Obviously, if we release what we believe to be national directives and set different requirements, it will look completely different. I will absolutely claim that it is not a doomsday prophecy, but I fear that the consequence of such a proposal, even though it is argued with local democracy, will be that many more have Sunday open. My experience with different smaller shops — and also the recordings that have been at the hearing — is that they have been some of those who have argued against, because they do not have as many employees as they can put in, and that is often the case, for example. the manager or the manager of the store, who himself must work an extra day, and they do not want that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1732	The Council of State shall not reply as to whether it has used Sunday trading. My second point is that you see now, among other things. under the corona, how important it is that business has flexibility to make decisions for itself, and I really believe that the buyers should of course be allowed to decide this for themselves. Now we also go towards a summer where we know that very many are likely to leave in Norway. Then it is usually possible for many to be open on Sundays in the municipalities how many are on vacation and such, without the municipality necessarily being defined as a tourist municipality by the State Manager. So I wonder, is it completely excluded for the council also to make some exceptions in a very special corona situation and a holiday settlement with Norway holidays?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1741	I've said all along that we should of course listen to the technical advice on this, and have discussions with the social partners, but I see no reason why the situation should be different this summer than last summer, as very many were just on a vacation in Norway. This is handled very well, and there are also good dispensations, so that state administrators can make concrete assessments. So at least I now have no plans to make any changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1746	I will also not fall for the temptation to ask the Council of State whether he has acted on Sundays. I want to ask you a question about one of the examples I came up with, which is Snow, an indoor sketch centre in Lørenskog. I want to ask the council if he thinks it to a lesser extent is a tourist resort than for example. ski facilities in other municipalities, and what he has to say to families who are not allowed to buy a new glove or a new rod or new shovels if this is destroyed on a Sunday when they are on SNØ to ski.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1753	I will not go in and deal with the various matters. I leave that to the State Manager, and the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs may be the Board of Appeal. It is clear that there will always be some rash that will be considered unreasonable. As I said, the rule is not perfect today either, in the sense that it is very principleal, but it is a balancing of different considerations: the fact that we as consumers should have the opportunity to visit different things, buy different goods, must be balanced against the fact that workers should have the right to a common day off. That's why we're very clear that we don't want to make changes. And that might be possible, for example. To buy, or borrow, a new staff on that ski centre, because very often they have a store near it. And if not, then there are also very good opportunities either at online shops or within the opening hours of the various sports shops, to be able to do it on the usual days.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1760	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1767	It has been interesting to listen to the debate. I noticed that SV said there was no point in prolonging this debate because the Progress Party has a position they are alone about. I can then tell the representative from SV that these are the points of view of the Progress Party, which are often copied by the other many years after, and then look back in the history image and think: why were not all at the moment? It's a role we enjoy very well. I also thought it was strange that a person was holding this debate so in principle and talking about not working on Sundays. But there are clearly different standards, because if the County, or the State administrator, as he's about to call, has made a decision, then it's fine that the neighbor has to work, or that the family doesn't have time to run family stuff on Sundays. But if a local government has made the same decision, then there's a completely different value one is in, whether to follow the logic that both the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party have used from this pulpit. I'm recording that when the Right Party holds posts, they're actually saying some things with us, but they're saying that they've prioritised other, more important, things. I think it's a little strange that you can't meet us to make simplifications and strengthen local democracy more, because that's what's at the heart of this representative proposal. We suggest to change the law in one word, that we take out the word "fylkesmann" and insert the word "municipal government". It's because we have the basic hold that it's the people elected to make decisions, and almost possible it's the one that matters. We believe that it will be better to decide that it is those elected to each other who take a different approach to each other and decide what is right for each individual community. Then it makes sense that most possible decisions are taken by the local government, then by the county council, and then by the county council. Now one has decided that this issue is so important that we need to have a national legislation that is determined in this room, which is managed by a bureaucrat sitting in an office in the big cities around, and which will then know better what is right for every single community. This is the reason why the majority of the population has now assumed – that the State administrator should know what is best, and not the local politicians in Arendal, Lørenskog or other places. I don't agree with that in principle. We think it makes sense that this is a question to be decided by local politicians. They make choices every four years; they are in contact with the business community and in contact with the inhabitants and are responsible to the inhabitants. This does not happen to the State administrator. He sits in an office and is not responsible to anyone in elections. Therefore, it is fundamentally wrong that such decisions should be taken by a bureaucrat and not by elected representatives. Therefore, we suggest that we change the word "state administrator"/"fylkesmann" to "municipal government" and that it is a pity that no more parties agree with us in punishing the local self-government that we have had since 1837 in Norway – but not in all fields, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1778	In the course of the debate, consideration for employees has come up several times, and I would like to comment on that. I will again use the examples that I mentioned earlier. When I was so lucky to visit Snow this fall with local politicians from Lørenskog, we heard from the manager of the sports store how they had to kick employees who worked there, when they found out that they were not allowed to keep open on Sundays, which we had actually taken for granted that they would get. The second example that has been used today is Arendal, who has wanted to stay open on Sundays in the summer, because there are many tourists who want to enjoy both the weather and the beautiful view in Arendal. Very many of those who often have these kinds of jobs, during the tourist season, in the summer and on Sundays, are students and others who actually want to have those kinds of jobs. At a time when, unfortunately, many people are both out of work and out of work because of the crisis we are going through, I think that when such applications are rejected, it has a negative impact on the ability to take up work, especially for groups who are usually struggling to get into the world of work – more than the positive effect that others here have been concerned about. Some have also mentioned that the Progress Party is alone in this matter. I can promise it won't happen to the Progress Party. There are a lot of companies out there, especially in tourist places, and many students out there who are with us, as well as both Arendal and Lørenskog local authorities – Lørenskog with an Labour Party rapporteur and Arendal with a significantly more conservative political profile than where I come from. There are not FrPs behind this; there are large, inter-political local desires, because it is seen to be something that will be positive for local areas and positive for both jobs and tourism.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1787	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1804	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1811	First, I would like to thank the representatives of the Progress Party for the draft representative, the rest of the committee for good and constructive cooperation in a demanding matter, where we have taken on board across the party borders and now make improvements. Obstacles to community, also called cohabitation, upset me. It is very serious that together parents and their children are prevented from associating. It is painful and burdensome for the affected parent and also its family, but the maximum burden and cost are borne to the seventh and last of the children who are unjustly prevented from being with one parent of the other. Through TV 2’s coverage of cohabitation, we have recently become familiar with several stories about this, at the latest yesterday, when Fredrik told about the sleep and frustration that his daughter was abducted by Mother four years ago, even though the courts thought the daughter would get stuck with him. But it's not just those who abduct a child, who prevent association with the other parent. Obstacles to social cohesion are definitely taking place in different and less dramatic, yet very appropriate, ways. This situation assumes responsibility for improving today by adopting, in a cross-policy context, that the government should carry out stricter responses that can counteract obstacles to social cohesion. That's good, and something the Central Party is voting for substantially, although this has been investigated on several occasions in the past and we therefore believe that the most important thing now is actually to put in place concrete sanctions. We in the Central Party are therefore promoting our own proposal on that very point. In addition, we propose that the government investigate the sanctions that should apply when going the other way, i.e. when consensual parents also break association agreements, for example. by not showing up, not to pick up or not to want to have a holiday together, even if it is the agreement. Today, there is no penalty against cohabitation parents who do not hold cohabitation agreements. The centre party therefore considers that the measures should be consistent. In fact, Nav’s recent practice of child support rules is when cohabiting parents are prevented from getting together, for those parents who are being prevented from getting together must, in addition to the wrong, pay child contributions for the time they did not get together with their children to the person who prevented it. It was also last exemplified yesterday, on TV 2, where Fredrik had to pay large sums in child contributions to mother, as she has abducted the child abroad. It has been difficult to understand both the legislation and the Nav practice around this issue. The Committee asked the Council of State for clarification of the legislation and Nav's practice after several law professors had stated that the practice was not in line with the intentions of the legislator. After this, we have also received a clarification from the Law Department, which I have requested. Both of them say that Nav has not done the law wrong, but the result of the practice we see has been wrong, because as it is now, it can therefore pay off financially to conduct a barrier to association, and it is going to be completely wrong. I am therefore very pleased that the rest of the committee is working with the Centre Party to ensure that the government has to find out whether there is a need to adjust the child contribution rule in order to prevent the economy from becoming a driving force in the prevention of social exclusion. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]] With that, I'll take up our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1826	Time's up. The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1831	The representative proposal addresses an important and very serious issue. Social abbotage affects both children, parents and often other families. Both the hearing and the documents submitted to the Committee confirm this. If possible, it is best for the child to have contact with both parents. At the same time, it must be such that the assessment of the best interests of the child should take precedence over the consideration of equal parenthood. There is little doubt that issues related to community barriers and enforcement are demanding. When, in 2015, the government took up the idea of a new system of detention or child support as a new instrument of sanctions against disability, the feedback from the hearing opinions was that it was decided not to go further with this. The Workers' Party notes that the Council of State, by letter to the Committee and in its own written reply to the representative, Mr Hemdal, stated that the Ministry has had dialogue with Nav on their practice of the legislation and that, as a background, it has concluded that there is no basis for saying that Nav has been misappropriating the Children's Contribution Code. And now we heard yesterday that the Ministry of Justice also agrees. The suspicion that there may be loopholes in the law that can be an economic driver and an incentive to initiate barriers to association cannot be excluded. Therefore, the Labour Party sees a need for an investigation into the need to make adjustments to the child benefit rules. The Labour Party is looking forward to this being handled in the context of the proposal for new child law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1844	It is important that parents with a high level of conflict in the event of a break-up are helped to find good and constructive solutions for the child’s best. Today’s legislation is clear on the right to co-occurrence with children, but unfortunately there are barriers to co-occurrence or co-occurrence, as this bill addresses. The Progress Party is concerned with several aspects of community abotage, how to prevent one parent from having economic benefits of community abotage. This sabotage primarily affects the child. By being deprived of contact with and love from one of the parents, its network and family, the child loses important support players in his or her childhood, and we know that long-term parents are harmful to children. The Committee has been concerned that cohabitation or cohabitation can lead to economic benefits for one party and that it may be a motive for fighting for one care base. The economic benefits may be related to housing support, tax, child benefit, and questions have also been asked whether Nav has correctly practised the child benefit legislation. The Committee has sent letters to the Council of State to this effect, asking for information and clarification, both on the legal basis and on the assessments on which it is based, to say that Nav has not correctly practised the Children’s Contribution Code. In reply to the Committee, the Council of State has elaborated this, in a 15-page long letter, and indicates that Nav is considered to have interpreted matters within the framework of the legislation. The Council of State also points out that the purpose of the rules on contributions is not to resolve or deal with conflicts between parents, and refers to previously adopted legislation and the evaluation of legislation on child contributions. However, the majority of the Committee considers that there is reason to ask questions about whether today's legislation has loopholes that become an economic driver and an incentive to initiate community barriers or community abbots. The whole committee is behind the decision asking the government in new child law whether there is a need to make adjustments to the child benefit rules in order to ensure that the economy does not become a driving force for association. It is important that it is best for the child to have contact with both parents, and it is rather sad to hear stories about children who are simply being deprived of association. We believe that several mediation hours at family protection can also prevent long-term legal disputes, but we will therefore try to close the law's loophole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1857	I am very happy that in fact we are allowed to discuss this matter. If it had not been for the proposal that the Progress Party had promoted, this would not have been on the agenda. I have to say that I was very disappointed when the committee that put forward its NOU on new child law, did not say much about cohabitation. As I said, I am glad that the Progress Party went ahead and promoted five concrete proposals to settle what I would call a system failure – I will actually go as far as calling it a care failure to the children and the families affected. For this reason, I would like to thank all those who have contacted me and the Progress Party on this matter, and who have fought long before the politicians in this Chamber got involved. Not least, I would like to thank all those who have stood up in the media with their stories, and given a face to how this affects children and families. Unfortunately, the five original proposals of the Progress Party are not adopted today. I think that's a pity, because here you had good opportunities to take action already now, when all the politicians in the hall really say they're to change the law. It could be put in a clear order today, but when it didn't work out, I have to say that then it's the second best thing to get an investigation, and at least it's a majority for that. So thanks to everyone in the committee who has shown a willingness to cooperate just to get to it. You had, like, a chance. It was said here that very many different legal experts have pointed out that they believe the legislation is being interpreted incorrectly today. I'm going to be a little careful about going too much into the legal, because there's a case notified, but I think it can quickly get embarrassing if no one from this pulpit said that you had warned. It tried at least the Progress Party in the Committee, and I am glad that the Council of State took an initiative against the Department of Justice to also give an opinion on the matter. Then I've registered their answer, and I'm not 100 pst. Convinced that this is the conclusion reached in court. Today, we are taking an important and proper step towards those who commit cohabitation. We also saw the issue of child abduction yesterday. I expect that, of course, it will be discussed in such an investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1870	The representative Heimdal does have any suggestions she's going to bring up?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1875	Yes, I take up all six proposals from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1880	The representative Silje Hemdal then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1885	I would like to start by stressing that the problems of disability are quite real. The parents who can't get along with their children, experience, are really bad, and it can go out on the kids. And the concern for the children is most important. So let there be no doubt that SV is open to change here, especially when you see that those who stand for the barrier to association get economic benefits – in goose eyes – from doing this. What we're talking about now are difficult, painful and complicated things. There's nothing straight forward here. There are parents in conflict with children in the middle of it all. Therefore, in order to make major changes to this legislation, the proposals must first be examined and examined in depth. We cannot conclude until we are sure that the measures are actually taken correctly in practice. In particular, it is about listening to children's experiences, letting children participate, because the most important person in any consensual matter is the child. The Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is the human rights of children, demands that children be involved in matters relating to their lives, both as individuals and as a group. Now there is also a large public inquiry into the child law out at the hearing, where barriers to association are included. That work shall lead to a legislative proposal on amendments to the Children’s Act. So because the issues are difficult, because the children themselves have to be listened to more, and because there is a work going on, the SV does not vote for any of the original proposals of the Progress Party today. I believe that conclusion now, halfway in the process, is wrong, because this is too important to take shortcuts. We are working with the entire committee to ask the government to look at measures to prevent community barriers in the follow-up to the child law investigation. This is done in the right order, and it's important for the result to be good. Then it is also very relevant for SV to make and support changes, including more stringent responses to community barriers. Then there has also been a separate track in the matter, whether Nav is practicing the child support code correctly in matters of community barriers. Therefore, I would just like to say briefly that I recommend the SV's group to vote for it to resolve the proposal in the matter, to ask for an independent assessment of it, because we see that there are still some uncertainties in that particular question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1899	It's a happiness for both men and women that we have as much equality in Norway as we have. On Women's Day, I would like to thank and congratulate the women and also the men who have fought for these rights. The positive change in the role of fathers is one of the best in the development of equality in society. That fathers have a more active role and responsibility in the family has enriched families and done both men, women and not least children well. Women and men in the Left – I have to stress it, we actually see a small collection of them in the hall behind us today – went ahead for equality over 100 years ago. That fight has been going on until today, and it is likely to continue in the years to come. Rights are usually followed by more responsibility, a responsibility for women has been taken on with pleasure. In the case of men, we can turn it around: with more responsibility, more equal rights feel like a matter of course. Unfortunately, the area of cohabitation is an area where it has until now followed equal rights with equal responsibility. Obstacles to community life have a major negative impact on the child and the affected parent. It is an old and well-known issue, but luckily more and more research is coming that underlines the importance of both children’s need for contact with both parents and the harmful consequences of sabotage of association. It is serious when studies appear to show increased association between suicide and suicide attempts among parents who lose contact with children. On 10 December last year, the Left therefore asked a written question to the Minister for Children and Family Kjell Ingolf Rugged on the extent to which the Council of State will take initiatives towards Nav so that the regulation on the determination and modification of birth defects does not act as an economic incentive to prevent children's right to family life. Nav appears to conduct a practice that looks at the actual situation, whether it is association or not, without asking what is the reason for it. This means that the parent who impedes association is rewarded financially for co-operation. This is the opposite of the legislator’s clear intentions that the rules should help to ensure children’s contact with both parents. Back in 2014, my party colleague’s representative Terje Breivik asked in Document 15:299 a question about cohabitation. The answer was that the problem was to be given priority. The new child law will now be revised and the child law committee will strengthen the right of the child and parents to be together even if they do not live together. Left and I are pleased that the Family and Culture Committee jointly gives clear signals and requests for changes and fairer arrangements for parents after a break in life. The Left supports the majority of the Committee's proposals for Decisions I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1916	It shall not be such that a mother or a father is prevented by the other from being with his child. Crimes are bad for both parents and children, and in such a situation the child needs its most important caregivers around him. At the same time, we know that the level of conflict can be very high when life breaks, and that children often become victims. The Christian People's Party, like the Committee on Children's Law, believes that in parental cases all acts and decisions should be based primarily on an assessment of the child's best interests. The best interests of the child shall take precedence over equality of parenthood and other important considerations. We also have to take this treatment into account that in some cases there may be reasons why parents set up obstacles to the children not meeting the other parent. There may be different harmful conditions that cannot necessarily be demonstrated, and it is important to bear in mind when considering more stringent means of sanctioning barriers to association. Given that there is a point in the Granavolden platform dealing with the assessment of more stringent sanctioning options in the event of obstacles to association, this is something that the sample has seen in a very specific way. The committee has passed through the current law in relation to sanctioning options and they believe that the threshold for refusing association should be considered to be at the same level as today. There are already a number of instruments, including: in the form of fines, and parents are today assisted in resolving matters through conversation and mediation. In the 2017 amendment of the law, it was better organised to do this by allowing the courts to appoint an expert or broker in cases of coercion enforcement. The aim is to reduce the level of conflict and prevent barriers to association, for the benefit of the child, and at the same time to improve the dialogue between parents. However, the sample does not recommend using stronger sanctions, as it does not necessarily do the best for the child. We believe it is a bad idea that family offices should have more authority than they have today, because it will put them in a double role that could weaken the trust that must underlie successful mediation. On the other hand, an increase in the number of mediation hours at the level of family protection can be a solution to ensure good cooperation between parents. In this way, the level of conflict between parents cannot be prevented, and money invested in mediation hours is saved in the courts. In most cases, it is good and important for the child to have contact with both parents. That is why the Christian People's Party also wants to assess steps that prevent barriers to association as long as the consideration of the child is put first. Knowledge and assessments should therefore be taken into account in a comprehensive approach to the Children’s Act when it comes to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1931	I want to start by stating that there is a broad consensus that it is important for children to have contact with both parents. At the same time, we know that children are hurting themselves by living with persistent conflicts between parents. High levels of conflict and difficult family relationships affect both health and the development of the child. No children and no families are alike. Conflictd parents will often disagree with the best arrangements for the child. The legislation on children and parents must therefore be flexible and facilitate the best possible care for the child in each case. I am concerned that the Children's Act will reduce conflicts and facilitate association with both parents. Long-term family conflict is demanding for all concerned. I therefore believe that the most important thing is to facilitate parental assistance in resolving their conflicts. Help in dealing with parental conflicts and mediation is, as I see it, the most dangerous way to create stable and good development opportunities for the child also in the long term. That is why, in recent years, there has been a historical commitment to family protection, precisely in order to be able to offer help to parents who are striving to cooperate. This document 8 contains several different elements. In recent years, the particular issue of determining child contributions is the prevention of cohabitation, which has received a lot of attention. Child support is determined by the cost of caring for children and the cost is shared between parents according to income. A parent who is a contributor takes care of the child during his or her association. Therefore, the contribution is deducted from the contribution payable. When there is no association, there is no expense and no deduction is made. In that case, the contributor must cover all his or her share of the cost of living through the child contribution. Nav's task is to assess whether there is association in line with the agreed or established, not what is the reason why there is no association. Nav does not have the competence to enter into parental conflict or to negotiate between parents. These are tasks which have been added to the family protection office or ultimately to the courts. Nav has explained its practice. I have assessed it against the legislation and found that there is no basis for saying that Nav's practice is contrary to the legislation. As you know, the law department has achieved the same result. But even though Nav's practice is not wrong, I see that the legislation as it is today can fail, and that in the worst case, it is an economic incentive to prevent association. That's why it's important for me to look at what we can possibly do within today's legislation to prevent this, and I'll investigate whether there may also be a need to make changes in regulation or law. I would also like to look at the possibility of waiting for a final decision in contributions cases, while parents are advised to resolve the conflict and the circumstances in the matter of association are clarified. Now the Children's Law Committee report is being consulted. It is the deadline of 1 May and the request decisions will be followed up in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1942	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1947	Once again, we have one thing – I think – where the Storting is very impatient. We hear that the Council of States is positive about doing something, but this is a matter of urgency. It is a deep declaration of confidence that the Council of State will follow up, when the Storting here does not decide that something has to happen. What is described in many of these cases is that you get to a point where you get a fait accompliment, where the cohabitation is done so extensively, thoroughly and for so long that it is no longer the best thing for the child to bring the child back with the other parent. Therefore, two things are crucial: quick reaction and effective response. It is this Council of States that must assure the Government that action will be taken quickly, and that action will be taken that will work, even economically if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1954	Now the Children's Law Committee's report is being consulted, so any legislative changes will be followed up after that. It would take some time, as the Storting is familiar with. With regard to the specific case, where there has been a lot of attention related to the exact contribution and whether it may be an incentive to simply prevent association, this is what I am looking at within the regulatory framework – whether there are opportunities to do something without having to have a regulatory change or a legislative change. Specifically, since the representative asks for it, I would like to see if it is possible, for example. that Nav is waiting for any adjustment to be found out more about the cause and hopefully finding a solution, whether it is in family protection through mediation or ultimately through the courts, so that we are confident about what is the cause of any other association. Here, too, it is important to say that it should not be an economic incentive to prevent association, and then we should balance it against the best of the child, which the representative has in mind, in order to ensure that the children have the right to care for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1963	Thank you for the answer, I think these are positive signals. Christian People's Party is a party occupied by couples, that both parents take care of their children. Here, the Council of State has an excellent opportunity to ensure that this also happens when parents break up. There's a lot of talk about mediation here, but it's probably in the word 'cooperation' that mediation may not be – let me say it like that – an exhaustive tool to solve these situations. So the Council of State's party trap said in its post that there may also be various harmful conditions that are not documented, that are behind co-operation bottling, if I quote correctly. This I think is a pretty scary way of thinking. Is it the case that we are going to have a code that opens up cohabitation because there are undocumented reasons for this? Then we've actually dissolved the rule of law. I would like to have the Council's answer as to whether he agrees with such an opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1970	Now my party trap can answer for itself, but I'm going to assume that she's thinking about relationships that depend on one parent being concerned about the child if the child is with the other. But I agree with the representative, Giske, that it is not a private matter that it can continue for a long time. In this case, this must be notified and recorded to ensure that, for example: if there is a suspicion of violence, abuse or any other matter, it must be taken into account in the appropriate bodies. That's why I've said it's important to me that family protection is inside, mediation if possible, and ultimately the courts. For a person, it shall not be assessed for himself whether the association is to be different from that agreed or established. A decision must be made to make adjustments to it. So here it's important to be neat in order to ensure the child's support, and also to ensure that the parents have the right to the community that is established or agreed upon.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1977	My question to the Council of State may not be the last in this matter, but I will continue where I left off. The instinctive system that is experienced today to actually carry out cohabitation, means that the parent who is first and foremost deprived of the opportunity to be with his child must also pay more. A double penalty is experienced, which is problematic, and which is now to be investigated by the Storting, both in terms of stronger responses to combat cohabitation and to look at this with child support. This will apply to tax benefits, and to child welfare and a number of other social benefits, so it can be exciting. The hearing period for the NOU is 1 May, and I just want to make sure that what the Storting is doing today, does not push this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1986	It won't be like this pushing the law. Then it must be that the government will send other things to the hearing. But it should be fine to do within the usual treatment you have. When the hearing has been and one has to have summary and review thereof, one may, if appropriate, send out a new opinion at the hearing. As the representative is well-known, it is likely that it will be possible to promote an issue related to the Children's Act in the winter of 2022 – that is when the laws tend to come to the Stortinget. I can promise that this is a topic that we have a lot of commitment around, because we're busy with the kids, protecting the kids, and we're concerned that parents must be able to have their company. I noticed what the representative said about the proposal of the Children's Law Committee. I want to say that I was also surprised that there were no further measures in it. But I expect that from the hearing that is now, there will be more recordings that I will include in the assessment to ensure the best possible lawmaking.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e1995	The Minister said that Nav does not have the competence to address the conflict between parents. I agree, and they don't really need that either. Then I wonder if the minister sees that it can actually be the law, or interpretation and practice of the law, which is what can create the conflict or at least be conflict-provoking, and that a change by not rewarding it as a sabotage and remedying can dampen the level of conflict and have a positive impact on cooperation in the relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2003	Some reason why I have been as clear as I have been in this matter that we want to look at a change is that it should not be an economic incentive to prevent association with the other parent. If, in addition to being able to have more time with the children, you gain financial gain by doing so, it's obvious that it's a challenge. That's why what I said earlier is that an opportunity we're looking at is to let the case go to family protection, to mediation, possibly to the courts, before Nav possibly makes a change in the contribution. In some cases it will be correct, but then it has to be properly assessed. I feel that the legislation we have today is not something the Storting necessarily wants to be the way it is today. That's why it's highly priority. We look at what we can do under today's law, and we may need to make new changes if needed. But maybe we don't need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2008	I am concerned about this with clarity and what kind of signals we are now giving from the hall today, and will take up the law department's interpretation opinion of 2 March. Their interpretation means that the resident parent can guarantee himself or herself the right to a higher child contribution by preventing the parent from exercising his or her contractual or established right of consensual association and that this may appear unreasonable. The Department of Law further states: ‘If it is considered that the current rules do not adequately respect the interests of the cohabiting parent, it provides for a regulatory change.’ I understand this as a clear recognition that our legislation gives the resident parent the opportunity to secure greater child support in the event of a disability. For the Central Party, therefore, it has now become even clearer that a regulatory change is really necessary. I hear the Council of State is in favour of it, but what makes it that the Council of States can't be much more clear that he wants a rule change?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2020	That's because I want a change quickly. A regulatory change and any legislative change will take longer. That's why we're also looking at what can be done within today's legislation. As I have sometimes said, putting the matter to rest and not making any changes until we have had a review either in family protection or ultimately in the courts, can be a model that makes us actually have the result of dealing with it. We got the law department's assessment right before the weekend – I guess so. This is something that we obviously look at carefully. Then we're going to work as fast as we can, whether it's making a change within today's legislation, or whether it's a regulatory change or ultimately a legislative change. The Storting can expect us to do it with great effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2025	The investigation of a new child law is now being consulted and is to be followed up, and the Committee calls on the government unanimously to follow up on the issue of cohabitation and, where appropriate, action in the follow-up to the investigation. Childcare is the most important concern in matters of association. That's why I want to ask the Council of State how he wants to include the children in the follow-up of this. The Children's Convention gives children the right to be heard both as individuals in specific matters and as a group in matters concerning their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2032	I have noticed that the selection very clearly proposes to raise the child's voice in the proposal for a new law. It would be quite natural to have meetings with different organisations and children and young people in connection with legal work. They will certainly come through different organisations for consultation. Any changes are also something that I know they are concerned about. When it comes to children's participation, it's incredibly important, because, as the representative says, it's not least about the ability of children to get together with both, so it's going to be a very important moment when you're going to make this new law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2039	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2046	I want to start by giving tribute to the Progress Party and, in particular, the representative Hämdal, in order to fight successfully against obstacles to association. A Joint Committee agrees that it is important to ensure that parents with a high level of conflict are helped to find good and constructive cooperation solutions, for children need support and care from both parents in their childhood. But unfortunately, a number of children experience obstacles to association from one parent to a break in life, and we also see that mother or father can today have economic benefits of fighting for a care base. If we look at numbers from the SSB, the proportion of fathers who don't see their children in a year, is approximately. 10 times the proportion of cohabitation mothers. At the same time, there are approx. ten times as many cohabitants as there are cohabitants. This suggests that there is a huge overweight of cohabiting parents who don't see their children in a year, who are just fathers, and many of these situations are probably the result of cohabitation. Now, if we look at the numbers from the SSB, we see that 66 pst. of children with a fixed address after divorce living with their mother and only 8 pst. with father. Looking further at the SSB figures from 2016, we see that almost 219 000 children live with their mother, and the SSB report “Which fathers have little or no contact with the children when their parents live separately?”, from 2015, shows that 21 pst. cohabiting fathers do not have relations with their children for a regular month. That means there are at least 46,000 children who don't see their father for a regular month. These figures tell of a reality that lies far from what we in the majority write in our remarks that the best thing for the child is to be governing in all matters relating to the child, and that the child has the right and the right to have association with both his or her parents. Today, as mentioned above, we see that the legislation can be unlucky for those who are not allowed to be with their children because the other parent deliberately and for no reason prevents association. I am therefore very pleased that an overall committee asks the government in the follow-up to NOU 2020:14 New Children's Law – To the best of the child to investigate just more stringent responses that can counteract obstacles to social cohesion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2061	This is a very, very important thing. It's more important than asphalt, in which the Progress Party and I are very happy. It is more important than roads, speed limits, taxes and taxes. I dare say that this is perhaps one of the most important issues we are dealing with at Stortinget, with the proposal of the Progress Party today. It is simply about children's ability to be with both mother and father. I have to say that I never forget one of the first meetings I had when I was on the Labour and Social Committee – it was in 2013 and I was completely new at Stortinget. I had a meeting with a frustrated father who sat in just a little bit of the hug we're discussing now. He was barely seeing each other. The punishment of not seeing his child is, of course, very tough in itself, it can be difficult to describe if you do not know it yourself, and in addition he received a double penalty from the Norwegian authorities, as he saw it, by saying that Nav only demanded even more contributions. That's what's at the heart of today. Here we are talking about someone who unfortunately deliberately sabotages agreements and tries to prevent the children from being with both their parents. It's serious. It's very serious. It has a major impact on the psyche and development of the children, it has a major impact on society, and of course it has consequences even when the children are growing up. The fact that we politicians have to take responsibility and clean it up is a matter of course. Then I have to say that I am a little surprised by all the good words that have been made here today. I understand that the intention of actually all the parties here, from SV to the Advancement Party, is to make sure that children are more involved with both mother and father, but it is a little disappointing to see that part of the rhetoric is not turned into politics. I think that's nice. Those are good words, good intentions, but unfortunately there will be a lot of talk and little or no action. That's a little strange, because this case shouldn't really be difficult. I feel that someone today is red tape and will investigate the matter more, evaluate more and think more, and I really don't understand much of the rhetoric that is being promoted here. This is really a very simple matter, and I actually thought that the Progress Party would get a majority for several of our issues today. So I have to say this is a little bit special. Here we're talking about two parties that have signed an agreement, it could be an agreement that's entered into in court, and then sabotage and boycott just to the point that one of the parties to the agreement so that the children can't be with both of their parents, and then Nav rewards it as a saboteur. The person who is then sabotaged not only loses his or her relationship with his or her child, but also has to pay more money to the one being rewarded. I record that there is at least a positive intention in this room, so I hope that there will be a large majority when the Children's Act is finally being treated. I interpret the Minister's signals as positive, so that we can clear up all the distortions of cooperation, child sharing and association in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2082	I was a little busy talking and was not finished in my case rapporteur's post. I just thought I should inform you that we are pointing out the same thing as the representative before me, that we in the Central Party believe that there are quite a number of investigations here, and that the most important thing for us is that we are already getting proposals for new and more stringent responses to cohabitation. That is what we propose in our own proposal, where we also have a supplement that is about cohabitation on the other side of the road. What I almost got to say, but I was rightly clubbed because I was so slow, was that we will subsidiaryly support the proposal of the Progress Party No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2089	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2107	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2114	Children have the right to be heard in matters relating to themselves. It is a fundamental human right, and it is enshrined in the Children's Convention. The right to participation in child protection cases throughout the course of proceedings is explicitly mentioned in the Child Protection Act. The proposers here, from SV, are concerned with more involvement in child protection and promote, inter alia, proposals for participation in all relevant chapters of the new Child Protection Act. Several reports and investigations have revealed that the involvement of children has not been adequately addressed. The government has taken several steps to strengthen children’s rights. The Swedish Child Protection Act was amended in 2018 and a number of documentation requirements were introduced. In particular, the child’s point of view shall be set out in the decision on the child — the child’s point of view shall then be adopted. A training package on participation and child protection assessments has also been provided in all regions. In this way, increased competence in child protection has been given. The size has also asked the government to set up an expert committee to review Norwegian child protection with a view to improving legal certainty. Both the Change Factory, the Children's Protection Professionals and the National Children's Protection Association were very clear in the hearing that the rights of children in a child protection case are not sufficiently guaranteed. That's what reports also show that say something about it. From 1 January 2021 it was legal for the Municipal Council to be informed at least once a year of the status of the Child Protection Service. The state report should include, inter alia: include information on how the Child Welfare Service works to care for children and the involvement of families, and their experience in meeting the Child Protection Service. This will provide the local government and municipal politicians with an increased opportunity to ensure the participation of children and families in the development of child protection in municipalities. The government aims to provide a new child protection law in the Netherlands in the spring of 2021. We're really looking forward to it. The right of participation of children must be given a prominent place in the new law. The consultation note contains several proposals that strengthen children’s right to participation, including: the possibility of exemption from parental rights to access the documents of the case, in order to protect the child. We are also concerned that the right to participation needs to be reflected in different ways in a number of chapters of the new Child Protection Act, so we are pleased to have it treated.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2131	A safe home is not everyday life for everyone, and our common welfare society is really put to the test when children are subjected to care failure. The many representative proposals on child protection here in Stortinget, a sea of reports from professional bodies and research communities, the Children's Ombudsman, the Health Authority and the National Audit Office confirm a high level of commitment to better child protection, and it also testifies to a strong impatience on behalf of children and families who are struggling. As the consultation opinions also show in this case, we have solid and important contributors representing former children and thus important experiences. Both the National Association for Children's Protection and the Change Factory deserve a great reward. I would also like to mention the important contribution of the various media to putting the search light on unsustainable conditions. It is now apparent from the suspension that all batches are in favour of a requirement that children be granted their right to participate in their child protection case and that it is not acceptable for children not to be granted their formal right in the decision-making chain of the child protection. This must necessarily be taken seriously and reflected in the work of the government. On behalf of the Workers' Party, I would like to refer to our proposal in Document 8:84 S for 2018–2019 on a quality reform of municipal child protection in order to increase quality, strengthen legal certainty and education. The proposal indicates that there is a need for more employees in municipal child protection, because we know that it takes time to create trust and involvement in the individual's life situation, and because we know that there is too much staff penetration, and that it is precisely justified in the experience of not stretching to. We are also impatiently waiting for the follow-up to the Storting majority decision to increase the ideal and public offer at the expense of the commercial ones. Child-restraint children and their closest ones deserve that we use any approved crown on just child-restraint. We have high expectations that the expert committee will now review Norwegian child protection with a view to improving legal certainty at all levels of the service, on the basis of which the best interests of the child must be taken into account. We also have great expectations of the outcome of the party-combined sample, which was adopted on a proposal from the Stortinget on 1 December last year. In its statement, the Committee points out that a joint work on child protection will contribute to improving cooperation between the most central actors in child protection, to the systematic and holistic follow-up of key challenges and to the increased focus on child protection and the possibility of systematic change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2144	Although our Child Protection Act gives children the right to participate in child protection cases throughout the course of the proceedings, recent investigations and reports show that the participation of children is not good enough. This was evident in the Riksrevision’s last report, which revealed a lack of evidence of involvement in institution placement. It was made clear in the report Traveling Washes the Eyes, from the Health Inspectorate, which deals with children living in child protection institutions, and it was made clear in the Children’s Ombudsman’s report, “They think we are shitkids” – Report on Children living at Child Protection Institute. Then we have the media, which has also had some things that show this, most recently Stavanger Aftenblad, who has had a series of very good things where this comes out. That is why I would like to thank SV very much for this representative proposal, and because they often focus on just helping children in child protection matters. We in the Central Party support the intention of the proposal, but choose not to support all the proposals as they stand today, for example. because we are awaiting the outcome of the work of the new expert committee, which has decided to set up a total pool, in order to improve legal certainty at all levels of the Child Protection Service. As the rest of the Committee, we in the Central Party consider it natural that children's participation in child protection is an important part of this latter selection's discussions. We in the Centre Party believe that the children’s right to participation must otherwise be an important part of the new Child Protection Act, and not enough with it: that in that work it is facilitated to mention participation in all relevant chapters of the new law. That is why we are promoting proposals together with SV today, and with that I address that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2153	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2158	Children have the right to be heard in matters relating to their lives after the Convention on the Rights of the Child. This applies to both children, for example: in relation to public child protection, and children as a group as well. If we are to have a child protection that is actually useful, safe and that works to protect and provide care for children, it is absolutely necessary that children are helped, that children are heard. For how can we know if the Child Welfare Service works well without asking the children in their own actions? How can we know what needs to be done better at a child protection institution if we don't know how the children experience the offer? Nevertheless, the experience of children themselves and several reports now show that children do not have the help they need. Participation in child protection shall be at three levels: for each child in contact with the service, at municipal level, i.e. in each child protection service and its development, and at system level, in the laws, regulations and policies on child protection. That is why we have taken part in this proposal in practice. It is the child-restraint children themselves, through their organisation The National Children's Association, who have made the concrete proposals that SV has made, and which we have also adjusted with them after committee discussion and useful feedback on consultation. There is one concrete measure for more involvement at each level: each child must be given his/her rights — this is not necessarily the case today. It shall be legal for children to be consulted in the development of each child protection service. The involvement of children shall be statutory in all the relevant paragraphs of the Child Protection Act. I have to say, I am very surprised at how the other parties have presented themselves to these proposals. Politicians from all parties say it is so important to listen to the children. They meet the children and their organisations – I've been in on it many times – and say that what they come with is so important. They praise the children, say it's so bravely done, and they promise to listen. But now, when it comes to the paragraph, there is only one party in addition to the SV in the committee that supports one of the three proposals, if it becomes like in the vote – even though the most comprehensive of the proposals has been adjusted in committee in order to widen the scope of the debate. It's not just disappointing, I know I'm being provoked. We'll remember that the next time those politicians are out and meet the kids. But we have to vote on these proposals tomorrow, so it is not too late. I recommend the representatives of the other parties to put a little foot in the ground and think about what it looks like. Then I'll take up the last two suggestions from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2171	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2176	Our children are the most important resource we have in Norway, and it is not without reason that the Prime Minister calls for more children to be born, and that children’s growing-up conditions are given a full chapter in the perspective message. They are the ones that are the future, and they are the ones that have to solve many of the challenges we're facing, even though we're adults now, of course, should do our best to give them a good starting point to take over. In order for children to succeed in their lives, they need safe and caring adults, who make sure they get food on the table, unconditional love and support for good and bad. Child protection works for families to stay together and for children who, for different reasons, cannot live with their biological parents to receive good care and a safe upbringing. In 2018, the Child Protection Act was amended to stress that children have the right to participate in all questions related to the child under the Child Protection Act. In order to improve child-rescue services, the government is presenting a new child-rescue law in April. According to the consultation note submitted by the Ministry, the law has to make it easier for children to be heard before decisions are taken, which we know has been a challenge. It is important that children are heard, but they also have to let go of the burden of making the decision, because it is up to adults to do. An important quality criterion in the service is that the decisions taken are well justified and well documented. In this way, we ensure that the child and the family get the right help at the right time. At the same time, it provides those who have been in the Child Protection System as adults the opportunity to go back in their own case and see that the decisions that were made rested on a good decision-making basis. The proposers raise an important issue, and the Christian People's Party also sees that the right to participate and be heard can be essential for the child to have the best possible growth conditions and care. We also expect this to be reflected in the new Child Protection Act. So we're looking forward to a comprehensive treatment of this in a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2189	The right of participation of children is a fundamental human right protected by both the Constitution and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is clear from the Child Protection Act that children have the right to participate in all matters relating to them. The child’s views shall be weighted according to the child’s age and maturity. I therefore share the intention in all three proposals, but believe they have been respected. Unfortunately, more investigations, supervision and feedback from children and young people themselves show that the implementation of children’s rights of participation in practice has not been good enough. The government has taken this seriously. We have had a lot of attention to strengthen children’s right to participation in recent years. The government aims to provide a new child protection law for the Storting within a short period of time, and the children’s right to participation will have a prominent place in the new law. The consultation note contains several proposals that strengthen the child’s right to participation, including: the possibility of a derogation from the right of parents to access the documents of the case in order to protect the children, a strengthened right to direct participation in the proceedings and an extended access for the granting of the right of the parties to children under the age of 15. The right of participation will be reflected in various ways in a number of chapters of the proposal for the new Child Protection Act. I understand the intention of the SV proposal that information material should be distributed to all municipalities. If children and young people are to be able to participate and have influence in their own case, this presupposes that the child has both good information about his or her own rights and concrete information about what should happen in the case. I believe that this is well-managed through ongoing processes. We will provide, and we will now get in place, better digital solutions in municipal child protection, which will provide information and guidance to child protection workers and ensure that they, among other things. involve children in all stages of child protection matters. The minority of the Committee maintains the proposal for legal participation at service level. I fully agree that it is important to acquire children and young people's own experience in the development of child protection, both locally and nationally. We have regular dialogue with user organisations, and Bufdir has a user council that provides directorate input and advice in the field of child protection. As of 1 January of this year, it was statutory for the Municipal Council to be informed at least once a year of the status of the Child Protection Service. This will provide the local government with an increased opportunity to ensure that children and the family participate in the development of child protection in their municipality. The establishment of user councils in all municipal child protection services will be difficult to implement, especially in small municipalities, in terms of privacy, resources and administrative capacity. A lot is happening in the field of child protection now, including participation. So I understand the intention behind the proposal, and I share it, but I believe that the work that is going on will do well to help children. I look forward to the Committee also taking part in the adoption of a new child protection law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2208	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2214	I think the Council of State and the chairman of the committee were in many key, good points, and that is also why the Progress Party does not initially support the proposals that are in this matter today. But with regard to the follow-up to the decision we made after the census to set up an expert committee on legal security in the field of child protection, the Progress Party is impatient. Can the Council of State explain a little bit more about the process and where you are running on that matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2221	As I guess I said to the Storting not very long ago, we're doing well with that sample. It's always dangerous to talk about when we're going to get it presented, because it depends a little bit on whether everyone is going to be asked, will say yes, but at least we're in the final phase of that work. It will be a very important work that will also contribute to shaping the protection of children in the future, in order to ensure legal certainty for children and for parents. Hopefully, it'll give us a good idea of how things can be solved in an even better way than today. I have also been concerned that we will now get the Children's Protection Act to Stortinget. We're going to make important decisions that I hope we get a good discussion about, and that the Storting agrees to, but that doesn't preclude us from looking at even more things. Therefore, this sample also becomes important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2228	So then you haven't gotten any further than since the last time we reminded you about this, and the sample still isn't reduced. What I'm asking about then is whether the Council of State can respond to when we can expect that new child protection law actually comes to the Grand Council, because it's important that it happens in this period, and that it happens before summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2235	I can promise that I have come further now than I was last. Now it's just about getting completely into the goal, so I can present the sample, which I think is going to be very good, and which is going to get a very, very important task. Now is the time limit Stortinget has set to bring matters, 9 or 10 April, and I have great faith that the government will be able to present the matter before that. It is important that the Storting should deal with this matter, and we are working on it for the first time. If nothing very wrong happens, it should be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2242	I'm also very concerned when we get this selection of experts in place. That's what I wanted to bring up with the minister. Now I understand that it is so slow that we cannot expect that the proposal for a new Child Protection Act will contain things that the sample has been able to figure out. Have I understood that correctly? So the moment of legal certainty that we, a total mass, have pointed to is the whole point of that expert committee, will not be available as a basis for the new Child Protection Act. Have I understood correctly? And then, of course, I have a big question about participation in that sample. How will it be taken care of on behalf of children and young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2249	I do not think the representative has fully understood everything that is going to be presented. What is important to us now is to complete the work on the Child Protection Act. It's going to come within approx. One month to Stortinget, if everything goes according to plan. Important human rights assessments will be included. That's a little bit why we have postponed the matter, so it didn't come until now in ours. So there's been an important work going on. As far as that sample is concerned, it will work – now I will not pre-empt what kind of mandate is given, but often it is over a longer period, so it will be important for the next enlargement period to be able to follow up those decisions. In terms of participation, it will be a bit up to the sample, but the Storting wrote a mission to involve parties, so there will also be something in the mandate, but I expect the sample to work up against children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2258	Yeah, then I actually understood what the council said.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2263	Then the Council of State may be allowed to answer that, but it may have finished talking.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2268	That's good. It's not that often, President, so we get to enjoy it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2275	Many people are asking about expert committees, but I would say that the most important experts on child protection are the children themselves. I'll ask you a question about that. The children have the right to be heard in matters relating to their lives. It is necessary to create good child protection. How can we know if child protection works if we don't ask them it's actually true? That's why I wonder if the Council of State actually knows something about how the children experience child protection. For example, the Council of State has some knowledge of how children experience the provision of institutions. from child itself? Has the Department or Bufdir systematically asked the children of the institutions whether the institution is working?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2282	I think the representative of the Supreme Court says it very well – how do we know the child protection works if we don't ask the kids, and not least how should we give the right action without the kids being able to influence and tell about their situation? That is why there is a fundamental human right, it has been incorporated into the Child Protection Act, and we are concerned with the new Child Protection Act that the participation of children is ensured. One thing is just paragraphs and making sure it's in the legal text, etc., but the important thing is that it happens in practice. This is why we have been concerned about, for example: the digital tools, which are also important to provide employees with a checklist in order to be within the various elements and to ensure participation. When it comes to how children experience it, we know that unfortunately there are also a number of child protection children who give feedback that they are not being heard enough, among other things. in the case of institutions, that there are not enough individual offers. That is why we have been concerned with both the enhancement of competence, ensuring training in this, and also, as I said, the tools they use for them to be heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2290	My question was whether there is a systematic acquisition of some knowledge from the children, e.g. in the provision of institutions, or in and separately from children receiving local measures or assistance from child protection services. When you ask your children about it, their answers are quite clear that no, that kind of knowledge is not collected. That's why I want to ask the question again whether it's the way the government council sits on any knowledge other than what the Stortinget has known, or what the children themselves have been told, that they are being brought in. It's pretty serious that we've started more selections, and there's still stuff here in the hall about child protection, while we still haven't asked the kids how it really goes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2295	As I said in my post, we have regular dialogue with user organisations and Bufdir. Bufdir has a user council that provides directorate input and advice in the child protection field. Just what systematics they have when they get advice and assessments from children and young people, I can't answer on the standing foot, but I fully agree that ensuring feedback from children and young people is very important to know about the offer hits. – So I'll take that tape with me and I'll check it out more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2302	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2321	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2328	The Committee has examined the Red’s proposal for a representative on good working conditions for good welfare services and agrees that tidy and good working conditions are important in order to ensure the quality of our common welfare services. The Committee notes that the proposal for manning contracts was promoted and addressed in the context of Document 8:7 S for 2018-2019, also from Red, and has therefore not been re-examined at this stage. As regards the working conditions of private welfare actors, the Committee takes the view that employment is in line with the existing legal and contractual framework. This must apply to all establishments with which public contracts are awarded. In addition, the majority of the Committee recommends that the proposals should not be adopted. The right considers that the welfare society is best ensured through interaction between public and private actors. Having a variety of providers, whether in kindergartens, schools, hospitals or child protection institutions, enhances innovation and increases the chances of a well-adapted offering to more people. This helps to ensure a comprehensive welfare offer, freedom of choice, participation, adaptation and better quality for citizens. The public has and takes responsibility for financing and monitoring the quality of services and, of course, also decent employment, pay and good working conditions. The representative’s proposal is based in part on the investigation by the welfare services committee on private operators in the welfare country, but provides a deliberately distorted picture of the situation in private welfare services. The investigation does not in any way justify doubting the decent pay and working conditions of private enterprises providing welfare services or the quality of welfare services provided. That being said, there is a real disagreement in this room about the need for diversity of welfare providers. Some people want most to be in public, while in the Right, the community believes that more jobs are needed to provide the best possible welfare services. We also see that public services become better interacting with private people, as we learn from the hospitals in Oslo when the Right was put in town council here. The private sector, like the public sector, provides both sound skills and committed employees, but often introduces new methodologies, ideas and solutions that public enterprises also learn from. When we choose to use all the good forces in the community service and finance private services for the inhabitants, we prevent a two-fold division of care and welfare services, where these are reserved only for those who can pay for them themselves. Competence and capacity thus benefit everyone, not only those who have a lot from before. The welfare service committee's investigation into private operators in the welfare country has been conducted at a general hearing, and we await input from the hearing bodies. The right hopes that these can provide a good basis for debate on future welfare services.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2343	People who work in welfare professions deserve a safe and fair working life, with full, permanent jobs and a living wage. Unfortunately, it's not like that for everyone. On combat day 8 March, it is worth recalling that many of these professions are women-dominated, marked by a lot of part-time work and poor pay and working conditions. It's disappointing, especially when we know that these people work in businesses paid by the community. The Labour Party believes that the public should be the gold standard in the labour market. Young people will meet a working life that gives security and freedom enough to live the life they dream of for themselves and for their own. Then it is mildly said a great job that needs to be done, and it is the Workers' Party ready for. The fastest and best way to ensure this is to implement more well-being production under public ownership. Then there is more control that the money from the community goes for the purpose, and not least on pay and working conditions for the employees. One reason for commercial operators to be able to operate with greater profits than public and non-profit institutions is that they often operate with lower wage and pension conditions. In order to avoid the fact that it is the employees who have to pay the price of outsourcing and tenders, we propose today that those who work in welfare services sectors financed by the public should have pay and working conditions and occupational pension schemes that are in line with public policy. It is also often difficult to have an overview and transparency of many of the commercial actors involved in public welfare production. It is often a question of curtailed organisation of businesses, and we see a danger of large Community resources draining out of the Norwegian community, out of Norway. For this reason, it is important – and we then promote proposals – to increase transparency and control of enterprises financed by public funds. Employees who get a new employer should have their rights respected, and we want to limit the possibility of getting away from their employer's responsibilities. With this, I address the proposals in which the Workers' Party is involved. I would also like to inform you that the Labour Party is voting in a subsidiary way for the proposals No. 4–6, from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2358	The representative of Arild Grande has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2363	When I read the proposal from the Moxnes, I think there's a lot of underlying here in terms of governance. What is important, and on which we agree, is tidy and good working conditions, which are designed to ensure good quality of service. It is also a matter of being willing to offer full time to those who are going to work in the welfare professions, in both public and private sectors. The Progress Party believes that a diversity of providers is necessary in kindergartens, schools, hospitals, child protection services, home services and housing, drug and psychiatry, etc. A lot of this goes on what the municipalities either do themselves, or seek help from other providers. It is the content of the documents you publish, the content of the services, and the quality required, which are essential for the follow-up that you should do to ensure that the citizens actually receive the service they should have. I believe that in the future there will be competition for the best workers to provide care and services in the welfare professions. Then it is likely that the best working conditions will win and have the best quality, the best employees and the best working environment, regardless of whether local authorities, county, state or non-profit or commercial actors are performing the services locally. Much of what we've seen in user studies so far is that it's those who provide private services in different areas that come out very well. If we put the citizen first and the recipient of the services as a high value on the service to be provided, there is nothing today that says that the public alone is the best to deliver welfare benefits. The Progress Party believes that we should have good providers with good and tidy working conditions – not equal, but equivalent. We support the recommendation from the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2374	Government parties have precisely described the theme when they say that welfare services can be provided by ideal owners, public owners or commercial owners. It is commendable that the government parties say it this way and get away from the classic description that NHO Service and Trade and Works are pleased to say, namely that it is either public or private. The situation is that all opposition parties on the Storting are subject to a combination of public and non-profit-making owners. When the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde says there's someone from the opposition who's in favour of just being a public owner, I don't know those parties here in Stortinget. The centre party stands for trying to develop welfare services by using ideal and public owners. In some cases, there may be limited-liability companies, but not limited-liability companies, whose primary purpose is to have the highest possible share price, because it directly contradicts the purpose of the activities to be carried out, namely welfare services paid by the public vis-à-vis its citizens. We agree from the Centre Party that we should not have lower pay and working conditions or lower pension conditions as a competitive advantage for some of those operating in this important area, but the Centre Party does not agree that collective bargaining agreements should be required. It would be very special if you were to demand it. On the other hand, we are very specific that where there are public tariff agreements, public tariff agreements should be established, controlled and practised. Where there are no public tariff agreements but national tariff agreements for each industry, they shall be based on them, in a manner which ensures wage and working conditions and pensions that are in line with what is common in the industry. The centre batch enters to limit the use of manning companies. We want to move from crew companies to temporary employment agencies, and we have described that in the setting. Then we are particularly concerned about what goes on on a seafaring business, which is inside part of this industry. That's what we're going to go into for a intersecting rule. We are further in favour of a trust reform in the industry that means that one gets away from the detailed control, which is the result of one having commercial units operating today. Bureaucracies and controls are linked to groups whose purpose is to make money on the business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2389	Kindergartens should run with pedagogics, not shops. Sick homes shall provide good care, not good sales. Child protection is the child's service, not the profitor's service. Each tax credit paid for well-being shall be made available to well-being – not a single penny shall go to international funds and assets for those given. When someone becomes rich in kindergartens, old age care, or child protection, there is something wrong. Commercial corporations make money either by increasing income or by cutting expenditure. Income from well-being is largely prepared in advance, so then you're left with cutting costs. There are essentially two ways that you can do it. It is either by reducing quality or by having poorer pay and pension conditions. In the SV's view, none of the components are acceptable. It's the salary of those added who essentially make up the cost of well-being. If you're going to spend money on well-being, here's something to save, through either lower manning, poorer pay or retirement. The right side presents itself as very concerned about how much tax you pay, and what the tax money is for most people. It's an important debate, and therefore it's incomprehensible that one is so little worried about each of our tax money disappears when they go to tax havens or to rich welfare professionals. There's a big growth in the number of private companies that want access to the public purse. You can understand that because the public is a sure and big payer. The right-hand side is talking about shortages, but in reality it becomes more monopoly. A few large companies have taken over large parts of the sectors in which they operate, and show up small private ideal actors. When they talk about a lot of things, there's really less of them. From 2010 to 2018 the commercial kindergartens have grown up by 34 pst. at the same time as the ideals have raced heavily. It says in black and white that the high salary of commercial kindergartens comes from unnecessaryly high contributions to private kindergartens from municipal funds. At the same time, municipalities struggle with beaks and claws to avoid well-being in hospitals and schools as a result of a hard-pressed community economy. Of course, the quality of the services depends on the employment and employment conditions. Added well, there is more left to take care of those who need their help. Therefore, it is important to look at the financial currents in the field of commercial well-being more closely and ask the question: Where are the money going? With that I take up the SV's proposals in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2408	The representative Eirik Faret Sakariassen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2413	The overall objective of the welfare sector is to provide high-quality, good welfare services. An important means of achieving this is to have a variety of welfare services providers, both public, commercial and non-profit. Almost 80 pst. however, the employees of the sector are employed in a public enterprise. Of course, I agree that clean and good working conditions are important to ensure the quality of welfare services. We need a good Norwegian working life where employees have an orderly pay and working conditions. In its efforts to prevent unprofessionalism and labour crime, the Government has repeatedly stressed the responsibility of contracting authorities to lead by example and to contribute to tidy and serious conditions in Norwegian working life. We assume that both public and private providers of welfare services comply with legal and contractual requirements. Several contracting authorities also require their suppliers to go beyond the regulatory requirements. We have notified that a guide should be developed for those who want to make use of such requirements. We have also entered into dialogue with business organisations, employee organisations, contracting authorities and others to discuss the possibility of making demands and clarifying the seriousness of public acquisitions. The purpose is to assess whether we should have a common recommendation on seriousity requirements. It can certainly be a good idea. Both private and public enterprises must comply with the Working Environment Act and ensure that those who are actually workers are employed. The content of the concept of the worker and the frontier against self-employed persons are dealt with in the joint labour force sample of the future, which is to provide an investigation by 1 June of this year. The government also works with the parties for an organised working life. We have great respect for the role of the parties in the formation of wages and the right to negotiate, as part of these proposals deal with. The welfare service committee, which was set down by a unanimous increase, was important, and the subject of several of the themes of the proposal for a representative. The setting has been sent to the hearing. It is an interesting and balanced position with some proposals that are both minority proposals and majority proposals, and some that are unanimous. We're going to follow up the investigation in the usual way, but we're now waiting to hear from the hearing bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2430	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2436	What often enables commercial operators to operate with greater profits than public enterprises is that they operate with lower wage and pension conditions than public and non-profit actors. Today, therefore, we are promoting proposals that those working in welfare areas funded by the public should have pay and working conditions, including occupational pension schemes, which are in line with public policy. That's the right-hand side down. Today, March 8, it might be tempting to ask: Does the Council of State think it is fair for a woman working in a commercial enterprise to have a lower level of service than a woman having a similar job in a public enterprise?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2443	The representative of Grande could have asked me many questions about arrangements and salary levels in the workplace and asked me what I personally or as the Council of State thought about it. My starting point is that the parties are selling wages. It is an important part of the Norwegian system – as the representative Grande and his party in many other contexts are very committed to stress – that it is the parties that negotiate, that we should have incentives in our system to organise, to require collective bargaining in their own activities, and of course pension conditions are also linked to it. That is my starting point in this case as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2448	Yes, it is right that wage formation in Norway is the responsibility of the parties, but the public and we politicians also have a responsibility for how public welfare is managed and operated. Unfortunately, what often turns out to be an individual factor that pushes forward privatisation is that it is possible to reduce pay and pension obligations towards employees. A ghastly example of this is when the government privatised the clean-up of the Defense, where some cleaners lost 1 million earnings. kr. Does the Council of State consider that the government has no responsibility for, or any influence whatsoever on, the development of the labour force in our welfare professions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2455	Does the Council of State consider that the government has no responsibility whatsoever for the development of working conditions for public employees? The answer to that, of course, is obviously no. The public sector is run and run in the last instance by politicians, so of course we have a responsibility for it. I'm asking for understanding that it's probably the Minister of Defense who has to answer for the details about this in his own field, right around the cleaning business in the Defense, but basically it's like sometimes it might be a good idea to look at whether you can use the tax money in another way. Competing with parts of the public services is not unknown in red-green municipalities either. It's not that everyone who has public cinema or clean-up, or that all parts of the technical establishment are under public control. This is a common way of operating the public sector in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2462	Kindergartens are an incredibly important part of the welfare service and are largely based on public payments. Today, the experience of employees and the management of kindergartens is that legislation is becoming more and more detailed. There's getting more and more reporting, there's getting more and more control — what people call more and more bureaucracy. Many people are asking for even more of that, and there's a mantra here in the main hall that'll take us even further into that control street. My question is: does the Council of State agree that this development is a result of the behaviour of the commercial owners – the commercial owners who have shown a very focus on making money on capital invested by performing the welfare services, which thus have the main motive for performing the services?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2469	No, I don't think so. But that's an argument there, because kindergarten is a pretty good example of why many of these issues are actually important. A nursery is not available. This means that public funds are available for as long as the criteria to be met are met. This increases the chances of getting what is called'rent-seeking' in the research language. What should you do then or be obsessive of from the political side? Yes, you don't have tender documents like that, so if you're going to manage this in a way, it has to be either because it's a great choice for your parents and you actually get like customer-driven management of this, or you have to tether your resources in some way. That is what the bourgeois majority has done. One thing is that we have drastically cut pension transfers to private kindergartens, but we have also tenured fixed parts of the resources through, for example. crew standards, nursery school standards, etc. That's right in such a perspective, but it's also right for the public kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2474	The centre party believes in a trust-based management where the owner gives the employees confidence, and thus the employees take responsibility, in line with the management's intention. So what the Council of State says is that the red tape we see now in the provision of services in the welfare services needs to move forward in this direction with more and more controls, more and more reports. Does not the Council of State believe that trust-based management of non-profit companies will greatly reduce the need for red tape?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2479	It is possible that I misunderstood the question of the representative Lundteigen, but yes, trust-based management can be very good in many cases. My answer was, and what I thought the representative asked for was: Is it right to have national regulations for local welfare services? There I believe that in some areas – although everyone in this room is saying that it is important that the municipalities can decide and so, and then we are all worse off doing it in practice than we are when there are party speakers in KS meetings – it is absolutely right to do what I say, that is to say, tens of fixed resources. That is, I don't think you should have a trust-based management that allows you to choose to have zero kindergarten teachers in a kindergarten, whether municipal or public. The representative, Mr Lundtigen, does not think so either, but that is what I responded to. That's because it's a good example in a way that binds resources, and that's how the dilemma is that you have private kindergarten actors who aren't in the bids that you can cancel at regular intervals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2484	That state council now said, I thought I was very interesting, that's, it's just, you know, tearing up the resources. I thought that was a good outline. While he maintains it in his answers, one of the key points to the government council was that the parties negotiate pay, and that therefore pay is not something to be involved in from here. But here in the house the laws of the country become law, and then it would be possible to say that a dozen fixed some of the wage resources say yes, one should offer the same pay and working conditions for those who work in commercial kindergartens. I've hosted a commercial nursery. I can't see any reason why they I work with that week, should not have the same good pay ratio as those who work in public kindergartens. Then my question becomes: can it be thought that a non-fixed salary resource will be tethered just because it would be possible to take profit from, for example. Babysitting?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2497	It is quite possible to do so, of course, but it is not possible to have politically-replaced wages in all areas you would like, and at the same time argue that we have free wage formation that is up to the parties. It has to be remembered that there are negotiations between the parties in the ordinary way. There is a high level of organisation in most of these industries, and although there may be some unprofessional actors here too, it is the main picture. There are much lower levels of organisation in many other parts of business – I don't need to mention examples. My point is that there aren't two alternatives here, that either you say laissez faire, and private ones do exactly what they want, or you say that everything should be public, which is the ditch that the left-hand side has both jumped into and dug down deeper and deeper. The alternative is that you have a private one, but you require what you want. It has to be done in different ways based on the type of service they provide, and whether it is. a service which is tendered or not put up for tender, as kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2505	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2524	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. Mr Dale has the floor on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Wiborg.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2533	It is Erlend Wiborg who has our case spokespersons, but he is on leave today, so the substitute had to step in. I have promised to thank the Committee of the Advocate-General for his good cooperation in this matter as well. In any case, the case is known to be about the use of payroll in labour disputes between Parat/YS and NHO in the main tariff decision for 2020, where, on the basis of the Health Inspectorate's message, the government chose to initiate what we verbally refer to as compulsory payroll. The Committee's proceedings have shown that there is a clear and solid majority in favour of the government's assessment of this and that the assessments of the Health Authority, which was the starting point for the government, underpin the position we are taking today. It should be possible to negotiate their pay and working conditions through the ordinary negotiations, but in this case, the Health Inspectorate considered that this could be a risk to life and health, and the government chose to terminate the actions that were, using the legal secret we have today for this. After all, the Storting concluded that it was a correct assessment. I assume that the minority is doing well for the positions they've had.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2544	Let me start by promoting the proposal in the position that the Labour Party is behind with the Socialist Left Party. It is an unusual step that we propose that a case on compulsory payroll should be returned to the government for review. As far as I know, it probably hasn't happened before the Storting does. Now it is hardly happening today either, but we believe that there is reason to listen to and take seriously the recordings that came to the Committee of the Trade Union in the form of letters in the course of the committee's examination of this matter. Information is available that the Health Authority’s assessment that there was a risk to life and health was not based on a correct description of the manning situation and the provision of care. The trade union points out that neither the government nor the Health Authority contacted the employee side in order to ensure quality of the actual basis before the decision was taken, and that the trade union believes that a combination of the effects of the strikes of the Trade Union and the YS was made without the individual strike being assessed separately. I believe this is a serious matter. Norway has ratified several international conventions protecting freedom of organisation, including: the Kern Conventions of the ILO, 87, 98 and 154. As interpreted by the ILO's own bodies, strict intervention is required in the right to strike. However, intervention is still open if the strike endangers life, health or personal safety for all or large parts of the population. In other words, it's a very high threshold to intervene with forced pay on strike. The government itself places Norway’s relationship with the ILO’s core conventions in a strange light in the previous case we discussed on forced pay. So also in this, because it is written that you relate to the international commitments Norway has made, but at the same time the government writes: ‘If there is a conflict between international conventions and Norway’s use of compulsory pay, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs considers that, in any event, intervention in the conflicts is necessary.’ We would like to have an answer as to why the government did not contact the employee's side in order to ensure the quality of the basis before the decision on compulsory pay was taken, and how the Council of State has assured itself that that decision was under the statutory striker's law and international obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2560	As others have pointed out, this case deals separately with the employment dispute between Parat/YS and NHO and also between the Trade Union/LO and NHO in the context of the main tariff settlement in 2020. These work disputes led to a strike that was stepped up in several rounds, and parallel mediation was carried out after the Riksmekler called, where both agreements were for mediation. On 26 January 2021, the Health Inspectorate reported that the strike in the conflict would expose particularly vulnerable and vulnerable persons to a significant disability and health hazard and that the strike posed a risk to life and health. This led to forced pay, and the Right supports the proposal for the pay bill here today. However, in a written input from the Trade Union, it is stated that the Health Authority’s assessment is not based on a correct description of the manning situation and the health offer, because the Health Authority did not contact the worker’s side in order to ensure the quality of its assessment. They also believe that a combination of the effects of the two strikes was made without any individual assessment. The proposition shows that the Health Authority continuously assessed the consequences of the two strikes. When an increase from one to four strikes was announced in the company concerned, it became clear early that this could lead to a serious situation. Therefore, further in-depth assessments of the situation were carried out in consultation with the relevant State Manager. The health oversight has the necessary knowledge and competence to carry out those assessments, which are carried out on a medical basis, and where the parties to the conflict are not part of the assessment. It was also the total withdrawal of the two strikes that made it necessary to intervene with compulsory pay. It is the overall impact of the actual situation assessed by the authorities. It is not the authorities and the Health Authority's job to make an assessment of one of the two strikes or of the consequences if fewer had been taken out on strike. In fact, health surveillance has to assess the actual situation. The centre party highlights in its comments quotations from the Health Authority’s assessment in an earlier phase of the strike, resulting in a slightly biased case-by-case presentation. The proposal summarises the assessment by the Health Authority on 15 January and 26 January in the morning of the supervisory review at that time, not as the final assessment basis of the Health Authority. The proposition refers to the fact that, a little later on 26 January, the Health Authority had a dialogue with the State Manager for a more detailed assessment of the situation, precisely because they considered that ‘the situation may have been in the process of experiencing a difficult situation’. It was after this that it was concluded that it announced the strike outcome, seen in conjunction with the already ongoing strike, would lead to a risk to life and health. In other words, the right supports the suspension and believes that the ILO core conventions have been respected, and also believes that there is no need for a reassessment of the basis for forced pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2577	In the previous case, the Council of State said that the parties, i.e. the employer and employee, were negotiating wages and salaries. That's the way it is for welfare services, and now, in reality, we're on a case. Here there are two parties – the employees and the employers – and in such a case, employees must also have the power and the ability to put power behind their demands and go to strike. It is something that we have experienced repeatedly is very difficult in industries that are responsible for the care of people. Here we have two agreements. There is Agreement 453, between LO and NHO, and the Convention for the Protection of the Child and Youth Services, between Parat/YS and NHO. After going through this matter, I have to say that the government had a very weak basis for blowing off the strike and demanding compulsory payroll. We've been through the documents. What is said by the Health Inspectorate is that one indicates at some point that the strike had consequences for health care’s ability to care for life and health. Then it says that ‘it may have been in the process of creating a difficult situation’. Then the Health Authority concludes that this would pose a risk to life and health. There were a few teams of nurses that were involved, and that were the basis for the Health Authority's decision, which the government followed up. I have to say it's a pretty crazy foundation. When we get the union's description of what actually happened, the Central Party cannot help but agree with the Trade Union's description that there was no basis here. But then it happened that there was an end to the strike. The work was resumed. When that's a fact, in our opinion, it's hard not to go in order for a person to complete the course that you've completed, namely to implement the Rikswohnsnämnna that comes as a result of the law that we're now adopting. This is why the Central Party supports this setting. But I have to say that the whole background of this case is so special, so weak, that there is something that the Rikswohnsnämnend has to take into account in the further process, because it soon makes the whole strike in the health and care area illusory, when we see how this has been practiced.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2586	The strike is a central part of the successful Norwegian model and, since the strike, the first Norwegian strike in 1889, has represented the power of workers against employers. Professional organisation is a prerequisite for a well-functioning working life, and high levels of organisation with active trade union members are important for the whole of society. It is important that tripartite cooperation continues, but it is so important that all parties respect the rights of the other parties. In this matter we are now debating, there are good reasons to ask questions about the basis and intervention of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. This creates unrest over future conflicts of employment and strikes. In the letter from the trade union, signed by the leader, Mette Nord, it is named among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t «The Trade Union considers Prop. 80 L as a restriction on strike rights contrary to statutory strike rights and international obligations.’;» There should be contact between the government or the Health and Workers' Side, and one should evaluate the individual strike and its consequences separately. It's very unfortunate if there's been an unnecessary intervention against the striker, and one has to avoid for the future. If there was actually no danger to life, it is acting against the strike on a false basis. Businessmanship has given us some of what we like best about Norway. Security for work, time to rest and to have freedom. Good pay and employment conditions, a pension one can live off, small differences and great opportunities. We should be grateful for all of this, but it doesn't have to come for free. It has come as a result of strong trade unions, clear demands and strikes that workers have the right to lay off work and protest against it, whether it is for wages, employment or other things that are important for everyone to have a job they can live with, not just a job they can live from. I will end with what the poet Stig Holmås has said about the trade unions: ‘I leave my children this poem For them to learn to love the winds, the sea, The sweet smell of great love,-- and trade unions. Without them, we had nothing. The hungry don't see the beauty. It's tired, it doesn't love. I leave my children this poem For them to learn to love the winds, the sea, The sweet smell of great love,-- and trade unions. Without them we had nothing."
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2632	On March 8th, a feminist is often quite busy. She's trying to pick up both a work struggle, a class fight and a women's fight in one day. Today, Red is going to vote against the use of forced pay in the strike against the NHO to raise wages in private care companies. Red is the fact that the government intervened against the strike, because this happened on the wrong basis, and also because we believe that the employees fought a legitimate fight – a fight they should be allowed to continue. Employees in private health and care institutions cannot become wage-earners simply because they have an important and socially critical job. This was a strike where the low pay struggled to approach what they serve in the public sector, but they were stopped by the government. It was a powerful blow to the struggle of the trade union movement against large wage differences. Norway has received several international criticisms that we are not doing enough to ensure the striker’s rights. We believe that this strike could and should still have been if the government had done its job. On 27 January, the Health Inspectorate claimed that the strike would pose a risk to life and health from 27 January onwards. The trade union has information to show that the Health Authority’s assessment was not based on a correct description of the manning situation and the provision of care. Neither the government nor the Health Inspectorate contacted the employee side to ensure quality of the professional basis of the decision. That's what the trade union says. The trade union also believes that the strikes of the trade union and the YS were mixed together without considering the individual strike separately. On this failing basis, the Health Authority concluded that the strikes in the conflict between the Parat/Professional Association and the NHO Service and Trade would pose a risk to life and health. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs then called the parties to the meeting. The parties confirmed at the meeting that they did not see any possibility of reaching an agreement. Immediately after the coup d'état and the government intervened with forced pay in both conflicts. The government's passivity threatens strike rights in Norway. It threatens not only the strike rights for health and care workers, but for everyone who fights for decent pay. It is serious when the strike is stopped without there being any basis for it. It is a serious restriction on statutory strike rights and international obligations, and it weakens trust in both the Health Authority and, not least, the Government. Red will vote against the use of forced pay in this case. The strike had to be strengthened, not weakened. And the right to use compulsory pay on strike must be waived. When employees of commercial companies serve too little, the government is more concerned with defending commercial companies than with strike rights. It shouldn't be like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2651	There is no one who wants to have issues about forced pay. Every time this happens, it is underlined to both the employer and the employee that they have a responsibility to avoid such a situation. It is also worth stressing, especially after the last article, that I am unable to characterize without being impartial, that strikes and lockout are entirely legitimate instruments. We have to take it. It shall be irrelevant to this Assembly and to me as the Council of State what is the basis of a strike, as long as it is within the legal framework – completely irrelevant. What, on the other hand, is a limitation and a framework to which all governments relate, is if it poses a risk to life and health. That's not how you can get the impression here, that there's an assessment that's almost cooked together on your own in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. We have a routine for this. We have a routine that says that there is an independent supervision, the Health Authority, that assesses this. And the Health Authority then assessed, to quote from the proposition where we describe this, that ‘it would expose particularly vulnerable and vulnerable persons to a significant disability and health risk, and that the ‘impacts of strikes’ – in majority – would result in a risk to life and health from Wednesday 27 January 2021 at 08:00.’ Both health authorities, which make this assessment independent — and it is a crucial point that this is a professional assessment regardless of what the ministry may think — and the ministry is also very aware that there were two strikes at the same time. Although the strikes affected the same companies, these were two conflicts. Nevertheless, when several strikes affect the same activities at the same time, the Health Authority, which is an independent professional body, must assess the overall impact of the conflicts. The last escalation that was announced meant that Parat took out three members of an establishment that had already been hit by a strike, and the Health Authority considered that the overall consequences of the two strikes in this establishment would pose a risk to life and health. In order to take a look at this matter, for this is a matter that no Minister for Labour and Social Affairs likes, but to which all the Ministers for Labour and Social Affairs must deal, it is therefore that I would be very sceptical if I, as a small number of people, thought that the ministry would go into a kind of negotiating situation with an independent supervision that thought that there was a danger to life and health. I would probably also, although we should be careful that political intervention and forced pay is drastic and has a clear framework, be very much on what consequences it could have for the legitimacy of the scheme in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2664	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2669	Now both the Council of State and Heidi Nordby Lunde have confirmed that both strikes and the overall impact of it were seen together. Thus, we can establish that it was with the background of Parat's strike that the overall consequences were considered to be too burdensome and led to the Council of State intervened with forced pay. We can therefore also state that the independent strikers of the LOS and the Trade Union are restricted. Does the Council of State consider that parallel strikes for two federations are actually to be seen together below, when only the escalation of the YS-combined Delta was the basis for the Health Authority’s assessment? How has the Council of State been satisfied that this decision was in accordance with the statutory strike rights and international obligations?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2677	It is not possible to answer the questions asked by the representative of Grande without correcting a few of the premises. Firstly, it is not that the reason for the strike is ‘too burdensome’. The rationale for such cases is that they present a risk to life and health. Let's do it. Point two: the Health Inspectorate has not said that it is just Parat's strikeout that does this. They have said that the combination of the two labour conflicts, when an escalation is announced, poses a danger to life and health. Then it is interesting, of course, as the representative Lundtigen did, to refer to the comments from earlier on the day, but the Health Inspectorate's conclusion during the evening is that this will lead to a risk to life and health from Wednesday 27 January at 08:00. That's what the Council of State has to deal with. With regard to the last part of the question, it has been well discussed and referred to on page 3, where we also assess this against the international commitments of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2688	The trade union’s letter to the committee shows that what the Health Authority claimed was a false basis for action on compulsory payroll. The last strike was probably a janitor/operator — hardly a person can be regarded as a danger to life and health at the time of withdrawal. Without going too far into the strike and the basis for the assessments, this is interesting: The government intervened in the hospital strike in 2019, to strong reactions from LO. One intervened in the previous case we had to deal with compulsory pay, for strong reactions from the trade unions. One intervenes in this matter, also to strong reactions. Can we now expect the government to actually put itself on the line that there is no longer a question of an autonomous strike for each association, but that these matters should be seen in context, and that it will trump the international commitments that Norway has to deal with?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2695	It seems like the representative Grande, good to ask as he is, has a little bit of trouble taking over the answers he gets. I would just like to stress again that the Health Authority's assessment is an independent professional supervision. It is absolutely vital for the legitimacy of this that there are no political assessments as those on which they are based. Independent professional assessments are required when a risk to life and health arises. There is a combination of the two conflicts that cause the situation to arise. I believe that as the Council of State, I have to take this into account. I heard the representative of Grande air a suggestion that perhaps the parties could be involved in some kind of dialogue and process around this. I think it would be problematic, simply because you do not have the professional basis for life and health that all the former government councils in my department have also dealt with, but instead make it a more political debate, which I believe is not in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2702	It is a fact that there were very few who were taken out on strike. It is a fact that the Council of State must take the Health Authority’s recommendations seriously. But I think the Council of State should establish a practice with regard to the Health Authority that is such that they are very precise in their description of the situation. Here is the description of ‘indicators’ and ‘possible’, and there are a few people on strike, because the contract does not cover so many. For me, it is quite strong when the head of the union, Mette Nord, says that government intervention in the strike court could help to lower the confidence in future health surveillance assessments and make a quick decision where there is actually a risk to life and health. Is the Council of State fundamentally in disagreement with what Mette Nord says?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2711	I quote from the grounds of the Health Authority, i.e. not previous assessments, but the justification sent to the Department, referred to on page 2 of the Proposition, and this is a direct quote: ‘As of today, Tuesday 26 January 2021, a total of 4 environmental workers have been taken out on strike in this housing offer. [[1 from Trade Union Confederation and 3 from Delta]] The withdrawal has serious consequences for, in particular, two of the residents. Both residents have decisions on various coercive measures, such as detention, medication and damages.’ If you read the grounds of the Health Authority, it's not a general, general reason. It is a very concrete, specific professional assessment related to the impact of two labour conflicts on one institution, here in concrete terms for two residents. It is the type of professional assessment that the Health Authority makes. Although I do not like it very much, it is something that I as the Council of State have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2721	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2728	It's the International Women's Day today. I would like to begin by congratulating all women on the day. Clean and good working conditions are crucial to ensuring the quality of welfare services. When pay and working conditions for those working in welfare services are weakened, the quality of services may be affected in the next round. Commercial welfare services have profit motive. It creates pressure on pay and working conditions. The level of earnings of employees in commercial companies is on average lower than that of public employees, particularly in home, child and health care. The Welfare Service Committee points out that we have to expect that there is potential for savings in wage and pension costs, in particular due to developments towards stronger competition and pressure on the return of owners. The pressure of welfare professionals on the heroes of well-being must stop. We cannot allow social dumping in publicly funded welfare services. It has recently been a strike for justice. The government was not on the right side. There is not a single good reason to allow those who own commercial companies to become multimillionaires, while those who work in well-being are subject to wage pressure. And when they strike for fair pay, they are met with forced pay from the government. Most jobs in the welfare sector are women. They carry our well-being on worn backs and knees, and many become disabled before retirement. On the other hand, we have the welfare profitors, a few, powerful, rich capitalists who are essentially men. Caring was previously exclusively free of charge done by women. Now there is a greater responsibility for the community through the welfare systems. The commercial companies have grown strongly within several of our welfare services in the last 30 years. An area that previously meant free work for women has now become a ‘big business’ for welfare professionals. Employees in well-being deserve increased pay and more colleagues. It has to be over that billionaires collect profits from their work, at the expense of both working conditions and well-being. March 8 is a good day to support all those who fight for good welfare arrangements with fair pay and working conditions, and I encourage the whole Biggest to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2741	The President drew attention to the fact that case No. 9 referred to good working conditions for good welfare services and that we are now on case No. 10, which deals with wage-earnering of labour disputes, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2746	I understand that the Council of State must and will take the Health Authority's assessments seriously. That's right, and that's how it should be. But when you haven't bothered yourself to check the actual relationships with the parties involved or to make sure that the Health Authority's assessments were actually the right one, the Council of State has a responsibility for the situation we have now been facing. It cannot be avoided by the Council of State simply pointing to the Health Authority. Health oversight assessments were manifestly too weak. According to the Trade Union, they were misinformed, and it is ultimately the responsibility of the Government to deal with the flow of information and the responsibility that has been attached to defending the striker's rights. Then it's strange, I think, that when you get so much criticism again from the trade union movement, from the parties involved, which you got after the end of the hospital strike in 2019, which you got after the conclusion of the recent forced payroll case we have just dealt with in the Stortinget, and which you also get in this case, you're not humble enough to see that this might have gone a little fast in the swings, maybe wasn't as thoroughly thought out as it should have been, when at the same time there's so much at stake in terms of trust in the system and in terms of the rules of the game in the working life, as the council itself is diligent to emphasize, and that you're not willing to take a new assessment of it. I believe that the Council of State would grow to say that a new assessment is being made here. If it had proved through the process that the thorough assessments had been made, and that in that way the claims that have been made could be refuted, in this case from the Trade Union, the Council of State itself would stand on a safer basis and could join in and contribute to raising the trust in the system. It is not the Council of State willing to do so, and thus, in total government today, is responsible for the confidence in the functioning of this system and the confidence that the rules of the labour market, and not least that Norway's international obligations have been met, are weakened. The Council of State must take responsibility for this and recognize that you have been involved and contributed to it. We find that sad, that we once again see a case where there is a restriction on strike in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2753	For a long time I thought that the only thing I needed if you were going to run politics was to count to 85, because that's where the plurals differ in this room as usual. Afterwards, I have also learned that it is an advantage if you can read the case paper and use the time to say here on the house to do so. There are some things in this debate that suggest that up to several representatives at least have a sin against the latter, whether they qualify for the first. What is the reality when one hears the speech of the representative of the Grande, now last, for example, where he says, and it is impossible to perceive in any other way that the Council of State should have ensured that the assessments of the Health Authority were the right ones: What kind of competence does the Ministry have to review the professional assessments of the Health Authority? Should they have it? Should there be a two-stage system in this type of assessment? Who else than the Health Authority can make assessments related to life and health of the individual institution in such a conflict? The Labour Party's recommendation and position in this matter is impossible to read as anything other than an insistent attempt to start the election campaign a little early, in its defense for its allies in various parts of the trade movement. It is to a large extent commendable, but I think the Council of State has done quite clearly well in the change of line with the representative Lundtägen, who is the professional basis for the position taken by the government and to which the Stortinget now joins, simply concrete assessments of what is justified for single patients. The fact that the Labour Party actually dares to turn it into a political polemic issue in dealing with this matter and is making a completely different assessment than the Health Authority, which they have previously trusted to make on behalf of public authorities, is alarming. Now we're going to hope that it doesn't go so wrong with the first thing that the Labour Party takes over the government offices again. But if that happens, it's worth noting how they'll deal with this kind of question in the future, for that line the Labour Party is on today, is good only when one is far away from responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2764	I read the Trade Union's letter to the vote, and I also read the case papers where the Health Authority's reason is, and I choose to quote from the proposition: ‘This happy home offer follows up particularly vulnerable and vulnerable people with mental retardation, autism-spectrum disorders and severe mental disorders with complex and comprehensive assistance needs. [[including challenging, outrageous/violent behaviour]] They need continuous supervision and assistance, and are particularly dependent on having qualified and well-known staff around them. The environmental workers are therefore employed to follow-up certain patients and are on a so-called participation tour. [[...]] Then I simplify something and go to the individual patient: ‘As of today, Tuesday 26 January 2021, a total of 4 environmental workers have been taken out on strike in this housing offer. [[1 from Trade Union Confederation and 3 from Delta]] The withdrawal has serious consequences for, in particular, two of the residents. Both residents have decisions on various coercive measures, such as detention, medication and damages. They both need help in everyday life, as well as an explicit need to maintain regular and well-known routines in everyday life to minimise the risk of violent and degenerative behaviour and damage to persons and material. Patient 1 has 1:1 crew and will remain unaccompanied from Wednesday 27 January 2021 and the next 3 consecutive days.» [[i.e. 1 employee follows the patient throughout the day]] I don't think it was the janitor who was responsible for following up this patient. The right fully agrees with the representatives of Grande and the Workers' Party that good pay and working conditions are a prerequisite for good services, but we also believe that we must meet international demands and obligations towards the people and the people whose lives we are set to manage, and here the Health Inspectorate recommended that we intervene in a conflict in order not to harm ourselves or others more. I think maybe sometimes you should go into the whole conflict, on behalf of all parts of it, and not just one part, and not only on the basis of a letter from one trade union, but also on behalf of the residents of these institutions who are chosen to refer to as ‘welfare profitors and commercial companies who do nothing but have an interest in profit’, but who are thus giving life-saving damages to vulnerable residents.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-08.ana.ud281e2784	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
