ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e49	For the sake of infection prevention, the President proposes that the public gallery be closed during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative of Tore Hagebakken from 6 May until further notice. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Oppland, Stine Renate Håheim, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative of Tore Hagebakken, for welfare reasons. At the request of the President, a unanimous decision was taken: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates for Uppland, Hilde Kristin Holtesmo, are called to attend the term of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e78	Hilde Kristin Holtesmo is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e96	The President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group. Furthermore, – within the allocated speaking time – there will be no repetitions, and those who have to sign up for the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e103	I would like to present the proposal for a decision on behalf of a single presidency. On the basis of the Storting Decision of 28 April 2020, on 18 June 2020, the Grand Duchy of Great Britain set down a selection to implement the common principle of evidence for politicians at all levels of government. The selection was also to evaluate the scheme of the Stortinge payroll commission. The Presidency's setting for Storing is based on the report from the selection. The selection has done a thorough job within the time frame and not least the mandate they received. The selection is co-ordinated in many points, and where they are not the same, there has been a minority on one. The Presidency agrees with the proposal from the selection that openness in the evidence is a central principle for the establishment of referenda, and that decisions on the evidence are ultimately a political decision more than a professional one. The Presidency agrees that general wage developments should be the basis for changes in the evidence of prime ministers, government members and large-scale representatives. The presidency also notices that the selection thinks it would be unfortunate if the evidence to the populace were linked to leaders in the state, a group that has had a stronger wage development than most people. The Presidency further underlines the view of the selection that there is a fundamental difference between the role of a worker and the role of a national election, and thus between the salary and the remuneration of the two groups. The Presidency adheres to the principle that the evidence should ensure that everyone can be elected, regardless of the economic background and the housing, which means that the evidence of the election must be good enough. The Presidency also notes that the review of the selection has been made, showing that Norwegian politicians at national level have had the same development in evidence as wage developments in society in general, and that the selection in the report says that Norwegian GDP representatives have a justification that is neither particularly high nor particularly low compared to the income level in Norway in a Nordic perspective. The Presidency also supports the proposal from the selection that the system of different levels of evidence for prime ministers, state councils and government representatives should be passed on, and the proposal from the majority in the selection, which believes that the evidence should be changed at the same percentage for prime ministers, state councils and major government representatives. The regulatory framework should address specific societal challenges when required. The Presidency has noted the recommendation from the selection that evidence for multi-level voters should be coordinated so that the overall level is not perceived as unreasonably high. The Presidency will, therefore, urge the representatives of the population not to accept evidence for municipal and county elected representatives. The Presidency points out that the agreement to the principle and conclusions of the selection should be reflected in the Code of Evidence of Popular Elections. The Presidency will follow this up by developing changes in the supplementary guidelines, reflecting the principles and conclusions of the treatment of this matter. The presidency agrees with the plurality of the selection, which means that the system of payroll commissions has worked according to purpose, and concludes that the scheme is being continued. The Presidency also agrees with the assessment that the Wage Commission should be given a more comprehensive name, and will follow this up through proposals to amend the Wage Law § 2. With this background, the Presidency urges the Stortinget to take the following decisions: ‘The majority authorises the Presidency to draft amendments to the guidelines for the operation of the Grand Duchy’s Wage Commission in line with the entries in the statement.’ Furthermore, the Presidency is expected to attach Document 20 for 2020-2021 to the meeting book.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e138	I have to say this is an incredibly disappointing attitude from the presidency. With the wage freeze decision last year, with new tones from a number of parties involved, with the thorough sampling and investigation work that has now been done, this would have been the opportunity to actually put down some new principles and go ahead and show that as elected representatives, we are serious if we want to get the differences down in Norway. So instead, we've spent a lot of time on selection and investigation, and then basically we're going to go on as before. That's what's the real content of the presidency's attitude. The Commission will continue with a new name, but the system will be the same, namely a way of disclaiming liability for own wage growth, and giving green light to continue to grow in policy-making wages, which in practice are growing more than the ordinary people are getting. Of course, the same percentage growth gets higher when the starting point is very high than it gets for others. Let there be no doubt: what's happening here today is that the majority of the Stortinges are moving from what last year was a clear signal of the freezing of wages, to what this year is green light to keep pulling away, and there's the wrong signal to give. When the differences increase in our society, the Storting should make sure that we can, with authority, beat the groups at the top of our society that are moving away, that we can, with authority, demand less differences in our working life, that we can, with authority, demand that they show the most moderation. But then it would be natural for the elected representatives to do it themselves. We see this as a clear retreat from the position on wage freezes that have been much mentioned in the last year. SV proposes what we think would be a good principle. This means that the salary of the elected representatives is to be increased by a crown supplement instead of a percentage supplement, a crown supplement equal to that of the average employee in the annual salary bill, and that a ceiling is to be set, so that the representatives of the castors stay outside the 10 pst. the best paid in society. It's still a very good salary, but an important signal to give. It also means that the principle we are proposing will mean a significant cut in the remuneration of both the representatives of the magistrates, the state councils and the prime minister. It will be to show that we are serious about combating differences. In addition, SV proposes that a legislative proposal be made that would limit total remuneration through the municipal law and a new law on coordination, so that we can just get the principle that I feel the presidency is also after, put into practice. Summary: We need a new principle to establish policy-makers’ wages in Norway. First of all, it should be based on the fact that there is no doubt about where the responsibility lies. The size is ultimately required to adopt its own remuneration. Then we'll have to do it, instead of outsourcing the job to an external commission. Secondly, we should establish a clear and clear principle. Politicians should not withdraw from the rest of the population. Therefore, the growth should be in dollars and not in percent, and the salary of the aggregate representatives should not go within the 10 pst. the best paid in Norwegian society. It will be a principle that takes the desire of all parties saying that they have, to do something about the increasing inequality in Norway, seriously. With that, I take up the SV's proposal and can also say that the SV's group will vote in favour of the proposals No. 7 and 8, from Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e157	The representative Audun Lighthouse has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e162	It has now been one year since the Stortinget decided to freeze policy-makers’ salaries and reduce this sample, which produced a report that, as expected, contained only cosmetic proposals. The most tangible thing proposed is to change the name of the Commission that we are pushing ahead with each year when the Stortinget routinely decides to increase its own salary, from the ‘wage commission’ to the ‘remuneration commission’. I don't think it impresses people there at home who are calling for action from the big parties in the fight against increased differences. Red stood at last year's vote, and also at all the votes we have had on politicians' wages in this big time period, just about cutting wages. In the last year, the Commission has been acting like a fig leaf that the other parties have hidden behind, and so now the parties in the presidency are content with their own wage growth and will do nothing about the system, which ensures that depositors and government councils earn millions of wages. It is no surprise that the right-wing parties believe that politicians should be paid at the director level, but there should be something else with parties that seriously believe that elected representatives will represent the ones who have elected us, and that the differences in our country are going down. I have noticed that the Workers' Party and the Centre have recently become very high and dark with their recycled demands for wage freezes and new commissions, but today they are behind the proposal to continue as before, and have no own proposals – not the Workers' Party, nor the Centre Party. For the Commission’s comrades in the Labour Party and the Center Party, this last year ends as a solid stomach patch with the vote in the Stortinget today. Then, again and again, politicians' wages are going to be in a fair relationship with the general salary level in society, but people in this room have made themselves a payroll, while many other groups in society have had a real wage drop in recent years, and many have also become unemployed and have fallen significantly in income in the last year. That is why I would particularly like to refer to Red's proposal No. 8, which in short asks the presidency to ‘develop guidelines to ensure that there is less difference between the overall salary level in society and the remuneration of the representatives of the major government and the Prime Minister’. We may disagree with the specific model, but this proposal I expect more parties to support, at least if this debate is to be something more than empty talk. The committee wants mostly to continue as before, but there is one thing I want to highlight, which is an interesting observation, namely that the remuneration of politicians who have several levels of employment should be coordinated. But then they stop at the edge of the jump when they settle down with an invitation to them at Stortinget not to accept allowances from simultaneous positions in a local government or a county council. We suggest that it should not be a call, but a rule. We have to bring down these wages, they have to go back to the earth, and we in Stortinget have to take responsibility for their own wage development. So far, Red has been alone in demanding cutbacks. Now it's almost a choice, and then other parties tend to soften up a little bit. So I want to ask all the parties that will replace the right-wing government, to support Red's three-step rocket to bring down the politicians' wages. First of all, put down the payroll commission. Secondly, cut the salary level. We propose 20 pst., but we are open to any suggestion of cut. And third, connect the compensations to the basic amount of the people's fear. Politicians’ wages must be linked to the development of ordinary people, pensioners and the unemployed. Then here in Stortinget we are able to make annual assessments of whether the level is reasonable, or whether there is a need for new downgrading, new cut. It'll be red open for at any time if even other parties now see that it's time for a little bit of moderation and to tighten the life belt also on the Storting, when people out there and there at home have done it for hundreds of thousands. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e181	Then the representative Björn Moxnes has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e186	Such debates as we have here today often get quite loud, and it's easy to hang around with people's motives to go in for one thing or another. I think we should stay that way too good. I think it's important that we focus on what the Storting has been asked to decide, namely the report that has come from the sample that, among other things. have evaluated the scheme of the Grand Duchy’s Wage Commission and the remuneration in general for elected representatives at all levels. So it's said here: No, this is just cosmetics, you've changed the name of a sample. Well, I mean this is about more than cosmetics, because there are some principles about the rewards we've been invited to discuss. I think it is commendable that both the Moxnes and the Light Hill take hold, but I believe that in the debate that is today, there is not the very level of compensation in crowns that we are invited to discuss, but the principles around it. There are some principles in that report and also in the attitude of the presidency, principles of transparency and that remuneration is a political decision – not a technical decision, but a political decision. And then we have to decide, as it's said here, if you want a remuneration committee that makes a recommendation to the Stortinget. So I'm going to register that there are some people who think it's going to have to wind up, that we're not going to have someone who gives us any advice on what kind of pay level we should be on. To that I would say: OK, who's going to suggest the pay for us? I have registered that there are proposals here today that the presidency should take that role, that we in the Storting should go around thinking about a number. In fact, I think it's a little difficult. I think it is important that we have a professional review of wage developments in society in general, and then the Storting must decide on the proposals when they get on the table – that is, what kind of level do we want on remuneration. So when Moxnes says that the Workers' Party doesn't have any idea how much you're going to pay, and just want to continue a payroll party, it's wrong. We will decide when proposals are made on the table. What I think is important from that report is the principle that is put up for debate, that the remuneration of elected representatives absolutely must not be linked up to senior salaries in the state. I think that's incredibly important, because the leadership wages in the state have been completely eliminated, but also management wages in general. And from the Labour Party, we're more solar-proof that we're going to stop this leadership pay gap, and we're going to use stronger tools than we do today. Whenever possible — once a new majority has become present in this Chamber — we will have a management wage commission set up with the social partners to take political action to reduce pay differentials in Norway. They shall look at the salaries and bonuses of state-owned companies and where the State is a majority shareholder, they shall look at the development of senior pay, the salaries of politicians, after-sales schemes and other remunerations and shall see national and local levels in the context. We're not paid for executives for elected representatives. We've said, and we're still saying, we're going to freeze the compensation to prime minister, state councils and government representatives until this commission, which we hope to put down after the elections, has presented its conclusions. So it's completely out of the question for the Workers' Party with an increase in compensation now. We don't want any post-regulation of wages for 2020 either, just so it's clear, so we're on what we've been saying all the way to freeze. We will decide when we get any suggestions on the table about salary changes, and they are not on the table today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e201	I've had the pleasure of being appointed to and sitting in the sample to explore the principles of remuneration for politicians at all levels of government. What has been important in that debate and in the conclusion of the report we have delivered is that there should be transparency on this. Compensation for elected representatives shall be transparent. I listen to the co-representatives that they want to compare apples and pears from the start. Elections do not have a salary. There's no one here in the hall who has a salary. All of the 169 elected members of this Chamber have compensation. If you were to follow the principles drawn up by representatives of the Red Party and the Socialist Left Party, the hourly wage for the vast majority here would be at a level that does not tolerate comparison with others. As elected representatives of the Grand Duchy, we are here 365 days a year. We have a responsibility 24 hours a day 7 days a week. I don't think we should count on that hourly salary, and probably none of us have. Because we know that when you are elected as a people, you are present 365 days a year, responsible and in service to those who have chosen us. If you were to pursue that idea, you would start discussing hourly pay, and maybe the representatives of the Moxnes and the Lyssbaken would also demand strike. In addition, the Labour Environment Act could be required to apply. It doesn't. It does not apply to us as elected representatives. Then some of the important things have been that we try to separate strings and bars – excuse the expression – and take on board the principles of compensation. Once we have examined the other Nordic countries, the level of compensation received by Norwegian elected representatives in the Norwegian economy is well comparable to that of others. In addition, we have stressed that it is to be recruited from all the people, and that when you are recruited as a population elected to the Stortinget, you should not need to have additional work to meet the obligations you otherwise have in choosing to the Storinget. This case concerns the principles of remuneration and not the level of remuneration. For this reason, it has also been important for the sample to tell and ask the Storting to choose a different name for those who will make an assessment and give a position on the presidency, a position that will later be debated in the Stortinget and voted over, and that it should be called the remuneration committee, because it should reflect that as elected representatives we do not have a salary but a remuneration for 365/24/7. One of the things we also agreed on in the sample was that we had a request that, as elected representatives of the Stortinget, no compensation was received in the municipality and county, and I hear with interest that the municipal self-government and the KS as an institution do not have the same activity with the representatives of the Red and Socialist Left Party. There is another popular level to consider. I believe that the recommendation of the Municipal Councils has been received and that they have also listened well to municipalities and municipalities. A great many of the elected elected representatives of the Grand Duchy come from a popular mission in either the municipality or the county. I myself have been in that situation and was the group leader in the district of Eastfold at the time when I was elected here, which then fell away and no longer applied when one received a compensation when one was elected to the Stortinget. I would ask my colleagues in the Chamber to compare apples and pears, not workers and elected representatives. For responsibility, there is a different amount of work and working time and the regulation of it is also totally different if you choose to have a salary perspective as a starting point, the employee as a starting point, or to live on a trust that will once again reach the square when we get to September this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e222	It is demanding and difficult to debate and discuss its own remuneration, we can really make that clear, even if it is not the remuneration that we are discussing here today, but the principles of that regulation, which comes into effect later. I think there is a great deal of consensus in all the Stortinget party groups that there should be a wage freeze for 2020, among other things. the situation in which the country is located. We will also come back to that in the matter that comes later. Prior to the establishment of the Wage Commission, the remuneration of the Wage Representatives was linked to the salaries of the Deputy Directors of the State, while the remuneration of the members of the Government until 1991 was linked to the salaries of the Judges of the Supreme Court. Had it still, I think maybe Lysbakken and Moxnes could rightly talk about a pay party for the politicians. Now at least it's not like that. Norwegian grossings representatives have compensation that is neither particularly high nor particularly low when comparing income levels in Norway from a Nordic perspective. For this reason, the sample that has submitted this report has also pointed out that the compensation of elected representatives must be good enough. It is an important principle that remuneration should ensure that everyone can be elected independently of the economic background. It is also mentioned in the report of the sample. It is also worth recalling that large-scale workers are not covered by a whole range of schemes applicable to ordinary workers in the workplace. They are therefore not covered by the Labour Environment Act, the Holidays Act, the State Employees Act or other collective agreements. This does not apply directly to the grossing-up representatives. In the past, there were a number of special arrangements for the staging representatives. As time passes, they are one by one distant and adapted society in a sensible way. Today, grossing-up representatives have almost no special arrangements. That's good, that's how it should be. It's also in line with what the people want it to be. Still there are a number of misconceptions out there. Matters are reproduced and recycled on social media about all the special arrangements to which the aggregate representatives are subject. Although the case is many years old, it goes on and on in social media and helps to increase the political bias. It's sad, but that's the way it is. Therefore, it is also appropriate to point out that every four years the country's 169 leading trustees apply for a new job. Every four years you're up for the exam. You're looking for a denomination, a re-election. Some are not re-elected, the election results in a loss of place in this room, and you have to go to the labour market as others who become unemployed. Nevertheless, you choose to work for democracy, for the People's Party. You get compensation for that, and you know that you have work for only four years before you have to ask the voters to keep going. It is also an argument that wholesalers should have a remuneration that is good enough to carry out their duties in a reasonable manner and – to say – economically independent. The danger of being subjected to compromise trials, lubrication and such things is less than if you had had a much lower remuneration. The Group of the Party of European Socialists believes that remuneration is at a reasonable level. We are pleased with this clarification of the principles that we are discussing here today. Then we get back to regulation when the new remuneration committee comes into force and presents its position.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e241	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e247	I am hardly as excited as some of those who support the setting have expressed, but my appeal points will not follow exactly the same track as those of the two speakers who basically have not expressed any particular understanding that the Storting, while reflecting ordinary people and the reality that surrounds us, is also not any job. That's where my appeal comes in, because I think the payroll commission or this report – otherwise it's an excellent idea to call it the remuneration committee in the future – has come to realize that there's some of the considerations that the previous payroll commission could focus on, which they're no longer going to focus on. This concerns relations with other senior management positions in the country. I can't see anywhere that you have reflected on what it can lead to from a lack of recruitment to and competition for the jobs of Stortinget. Those who are here today may, for various reasons, have settled down with the compensation that is. But I have to say, however, that the contempt that we are talking about Stortinget and colleagues with in two of the speeches here today, I will distance myself from it. It has not been understood that it also has something to do with the signal effects it gives on how one considers the Stortinge place in the administration and in the management system. It is not affected at all, and the remuneration committee is also being deprived of an assessment criterion that they have previously had, so that you go very far in saying that there should only be a percentage in the future. But then there are other issues that I think one should go into more detail, because I can't see that there is a principle of wage fixing for politicians at all levels of government. That remuneration should be good enough is with respect to notifying no principle. What I think one should go more in the direction of is to think through: do we want the emergence of an undershepherd of full-time politicians in local democracy? It's a bigger problem than what each of them had to raise in wages. Just because they have become full-time politicians, for some reason they should also be ‘serviced’ by other full-time advisors who also conduct policies but without mandate. I have to say that if this Commission had really done a hard job, they would have looked into whether we want to have so many full-time politicians at lower levels of government who are overcoming ordinary everyday people who are free-time politicians. It is a major democratic problem, and ultimately it goes beyond recruitment to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e256	There is no doubt that the payroll commission has provided some kind of objective professionalism for the Stortinget to decide each year to increase its own salary. The professionalism to which the Workers' Party must have its own commission in order to be able to sit and adopt its salary afterwards in Stortinget is no worse than the fact that it is possible to collect background material from Stortingen's Investigation Section, from the SSB and Technical Calculation Committee. This is the enormous professionalism of the payroll commission. The fact is that at the end of the day there are people in this room who sit and decide on their own salary increase. Let's not pretend anything but that. There is no cause for an up-front presidency to obtain these facts from the SSB and the TBU if there is a willingness to do so. Then I wonder what the Workers' Party really wants, because the wage freeze they're talking about, they've pointed to the relationship with the work of the Commission. We have now had a commission that has delivered its report. In the class struggle on 8 January, the Workers' Party wanted to ‘seek politicians' wages’ and ‘clean up public wages and salaries’. But the principles behind them in the Chamber today are, of course, continuing to grow in the pay of politicians, because it stands in the position. It states, as the Workers' Party is behind, that the gross wages are reasonable «in relation to the general level of wages and salaries». Well, today's salary is $987,97 a year. Masud Gharakhani also said to the class struggle: ‘If we are to secure a society based on trust, it cannot be that ordinary workers sit with the feeling that an elite is running away while they are still standing. That is what happens when the salaries of politicians and top leaders in the state only continue to increase.’ The natural consequence of these beautiful words in the class struggle is to support the principle proposal from Red to bring down these differences. It's finally just liberating, I'd say, to hear Right, because they're a little bit more forward than the Workers' Party when they explain why it's right that we at the Storting should be high above ordinary workers who have elected us to the Storing, and have wages, i.e. allowances, high above what most people have. Maybe the Workers' Party should learn a little bit more from the honesty of the Right. Either they change their position and support Red, or perhaps argue more in line with Tetzschner and Schou.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e270	I do not understand that there must have been something despicable in my post, as the representative Tetzschner suggested. On the contrary, my post was marked by something else, namely a serious one, because we believe it is a serious question. This is one of the issues that governs the confidence of politicians. As the representative Wold had in mind, it has been a long story, fortunately, with the liquidation of various special arrangements – or political privileges, as it is likely to be called. But it has not been such that the processes of winding them have been completely uncomplicated. It has depended on some having gone ahead, and over the years it has been very often the role of SV to do so. It hasn't always been very popular first, but then there's been a consensus about it because you've seen that the arrangements aren't sustainable. I think the same is true of the system of compensation. Today's system doesn't keep target. It is also wrong to say that today we are discussing system, principle, and therefore not level. Of course, those things are related, and what the majority are doing here today is putting forward a system that is very difficult to imagine will have some other effect, some other result, than that politicians' remunerations continue to evolve in such a way that a person withdraws. So we're discussing level, and that's why SV has presented a proposal for a principle of how we regulate the level. If we do, we don't need a remuneration committee either. Nor will it be difficult for the presidency to present the proposal, because then there is no need for anything more than the up-to-date and reliable figures obtained from the Statistical Central Bureau and Technical Calculation Committee each year, and then the figures will follow what the presidency is going to propose – a crown supplement in line with an average employee and a ceiling that makes one not within what is called the 91 percentile, i.e. within the 10 pst. the best paid. Final explanation of vote: SV will vote in favour of the proposal No. 7 and 8 by Mrs Red, but not by proposal No. 6, and that's just because we believe that the regulation of the basic amount will recreate many of the problems we have in today's model, because the basic amount is regulated by percentage. So we get a percentage growth that will make Red's proposals about time lead to a significantly higher increase in remuneration than the SV's proposals will do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e283	Then I'll say a little bit about the view of the Center Party. The centre part would have had a larger pass when only a selection was brought down. We would have looked at government rents in the same selection, but we were pushed down when it was put down. The mandate was also not that one should look at the level of political wages. Then there was a part that took up this with collecting evidence for state and local politicians. But it is this hall that has adopted a municipal law that clearly says that there is local self-government to determine the evidence. So I mean what I'm doing here today is a good thing. We give a call to big-time politicians with such responsibilities – and I think it is an important signal in the work that municipalities and counties through KS should do to look at evidence to politicians otherwise. It's been a discussion if we're going to say something about developments in the future, but the presidency has chosen to take the principal here to say explicitly what a do with it as a frus for 2020. But there is no doubt that for the Central Party – and others have said the same thing here today – what we will do is: that a freeze for 2020, and then one regulates further according to the principles that lie here. So we're going to get back to when the evidence board is down, and we're going to get this back. Let it be quite clear: I still think one has to look at state leaders, because it's not natural when they pull off the guard. So I don't think the solution is like Tetzschner says that one more increase in gross pay. No, then you have to look at the salaries, and then we have to try to lay down a principle of proof for big politicians who are actually going to follow most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e294	I think the representative Bjørke's posts were thought-provoking in many ways, because it turns out that his group has thought something different. It's very bad that it's not reflected in the setting, which is formally a strenuous consensus, because in it it would also have been a bit of guidance and perhaps also a little challenge to think outside the setting, if you saw that there have also been other votes. Then we're probably not quite in agreement that the big problem is the wage development of leaders in the state, because when it comes to managing large organisations and billions of taxpayers' money, we also have to have competent management, and then you're in another competition market, with a flat against private business. It is also a reality. I would like to reiterate that what is referred to as principles is not really principles, when one hangs up as a future principle of remuneration to politicians that it should be good enough. Yes, in relation to what? Then there will also have to be some other assessment criteria. I also find it strange that you are so satisfied with the previous payroll commission. What you've done is undermine its results because you didn't want to follow the setting yourself, which was the premise when it was put into the world. Then I think you should go a little further and not just say that it is up to local politicians to decide their own salary. In our neighbouring country, the size of the rapporteur's allowances is determined by law, and the population for which they are responsible is the norm. No one complains that there is any interference with local self-government. There is also a way of bringing wage developments and remuneration developments under control. Then I'm of that opinion – and it might be a bit helpful for those who are afraid that it will build up clusters of influence by having people across levels of government have trust – that if you have more public representatives and have received the magistrate, you have to choose the highest representative and give the others away. Then the free space becomes downwards in the system – or across the system, there are some of us who also hold local democracy very high and spend time on it. It might also have provided some air and some recruitment, rather than accumulating the power of someone who has a life course as a full-time politician.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e307	The representative Bears Moxnes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e312	The centre party was asked by VG whether they should not go in to tighten our wages, as they are also to freeze the management salaries in the state. Bjørke replied that then you have to look at everyone at once: I don't think it's good if just big politicians stay calm and not society else. Well, many have had a huge real wage drop this year, there has been a race in the incomes of hundreds of thousands of people. It is strange whether the view of the Centre party is that as long as the high-wage continue to receive more, the salaries of the big business representatives must also grow. It is otherwise quite natural and logical that the Progress Party and the Right today are in favour of continued growth in wages and are satisfied with the level. It is in line with their other policies for increasing differences – for billionaires and for those who have millions, but not for people the most. If the Progress Party wants to do something about the political debate, it would be a good idea, I think, to start by cutting the payroll rather than going in for continued growth in these.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e321	I don't see the big challenge with the view of the Center Party here. It's just an in-depth, and it's well within what the presidency has jointly solved. We wanted to have a different mandate for the selection that has worked, but that means that the multiple has voted down, and then we have to base on the selection that has worked within the limits that they have. So I notice that the representative of Tetzschner wants to control the evidence in the municipality and state, but then one listens to make changes to the laws that the Stortinget has made, where we have fixed municipal autonomy at these points. Within today's law there is no room for it. Then we can discuss what we will do in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e330	No more people have asked for the word to cause no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e347	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e354	I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in the matter. The entire Committee supports the wish to contribute to a greater level of processing of marine raw materials in Norway, which is clearly reflected in this position and almost all previous issues in this area. However, that is not what is necessarily the question today. That is the proposal that has been put forward, and now also solve proposals. Today, we are dealing with a principally challenging proposal. The proposal is to draw the fisherman into quota if he sells the fish to choose to resell it out of the country without further processing. This means in plain text that the fisherman is to be punished for something he or she has no influence over. This violates fundamental legal principles and is likely to appear unreasonable. It must be the person who performs the unwanted action, who has to bear the consequences, not the person who has nothing to do with the action. As is known – where nothing is, even the emperor has lost his right. The principle of setting up a smith is not a principle that the majority of the committee wishes to introduce. On that basis, a majority in the Committee opposes the proposal and the other proposals in the case which point in a similar direction. It is also worrying that the background to the proposal contains a number of erroneous or inaccurate claims. The Icelandic model is not functional even in Iceland. The claim that only 10 pst. fish landed in Norway have been completely removed from the air. According to the SSB, nine out of ten fish are landed in Norway, not nine out of ten fish are landed abroad. Nor is the claim of owner concentration correct, nor is it the claim of transfer of allowances from coast to jet. I remember that this year about 4,000 tonnes were transferred from trawl to coast. I have a certain understanding of where these numbers come from. We're probably witnesses to some extent that history has become better along the way from the original fact, as H.C. Andersen described in his adventure of the spring that became five chickens. Let me stress: it concerns the claims, not the challenge of getting a higher degree of processing. That's where we share all of the ambition. So the model doesn't exist, and what's going to be the actual basis is wrong. John Maynard Keynes is quoted as saying that when the facts change, you change your mind. Here the facts of Red have at least changed. But Keynes did not say that, and I have little faith that Red will follow what he did not say. But one can hope. If one should nevertheless ignore the breach of legal principles and the fact that the model has not been tested even where it comes from, and that the background information is incorrect, is that a good idea? No, I'll say. The person being punished cannot affect the use of the fish. No penalty is imposed on those who may affect their use. There is therefore no intention in this to actually increase the processing. The seasonal fluctuations in Norwegian cod fishing mean that one has to sell out fresh fish for periods of time, and therefore this will only appear as an extra tax on locot fishing. It's a perfectly obvious barrier to trade, and in the current situation, as it is now in the world, it's not unreasonable to imagine that the introduction of trade barriers explicitly intends to hit the industry in countries with which we have free trade agreements or are negotiating such agreements, will lead to a reaction where it's most for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e371	The intentions to ensure more processing I think we all share, and that's not least very important for the Workers' Party. But in any case, we cannot support this proposal, and the reason we have given in our remarks, I would say, is good. A little over a year ago, the Riksrevision came up with very serious criticism, and one of the criticisms is about the impact assessment of what we are adopting here. Making a policy that is fragmented and divided does not provide predictability and security for this industry. That's not what this industry needs anymore. That is why we cannot support this type of proposal either. After all, the working party has arranged for an updated quota message up to and including several times. We still think we need that. It is necessary to ensure safe and strong fishing communities along the coast. It is necessary to ensure predictability of industry with regard to framework conditions. As far as farming is concerned, we want to ensure sustainable growth that gives local ring-effects, jobs and activity along the coast. Now it's working on a strategy in that area. The working party would like to see that strategy come to Stortinget, but the points I have just mentioned are going to be important points whether it comes here or not. It is our responsibility to follow up what we have said. The opposition as a whole has been very concerned with the Riksrevision report, and then we have to live up to it ourselves. We cannot drive and promote proposals that create more uncertainty, and make proposals that we do not know the consequences of. The Labour Party wants to be what we are known for, that is responsible and to trust. A new quota message must help bring the coast together, not continue to split it. A new quota notification must be about clarifying the key framework conditions – to provide fishermen with answers, to ensure predictability of the industry and to ensure that we can build coastal communities. Sustainability must also be an important part of it. It wasn't in the message we've been dealing with. The Workers' Party supports the proposal on the table of the Centre Party and SV. I believe that it also takes care of what I have just said.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e388	We are dealing with a representative proposal from Red to introduce a quota cut for the export of unprocessed fish to ensure that Norwegian fish create Norwegian jobs. The Progress Party is in favour of measures that can help increase the processing rate of Norwegian raw material, create more full-year jobs in the fishing industry and increase value creation. Unfortunately, the Red proposal makes a number of allegations on a failed basis, as the Council of State also states in its reply to the Committee. Reference is made in the proposal for Iceland, but there are two significant differences in Norwegian and Icelandic fisheries. Iceland does not have the major seasonal fluctuations in fisheries, and specifically cod fishing that Norway has. And Icelandic fisheries are mainly industrial, which means that there is the industry that decides when to fish, which fish species to fish, how much to fish, and where to deliver it. Iceland has a fishing structure that one has not wanted, or is not wanted, in Norway, and we also have a law that prevents such a structure. The basic principle in Norway is that there are active fishermen to own the fishing fleet. The Progress Party fully supports the objective of higher processing rates and increased value creation, but the solution Red outlines, we do not believe, but rather have the opposite effect. The concrete proposal by the Red Party, which is largely supported by the Centre Party and SV, is based on a quota move if the fish are not processed in Norway. This means that the responsibility for what the fish is used for will be placed on the fisherman. It is challenging because the fishermen do not have control of what the fish is used for after it has been delivered to reception. This will penalise the fisherman with quota cuts if the fish buyer chooses to sell the fish without processing abroad. Let me underline: a shark fisherman would then have had quota cuts if the fisherman had chosen to sell the fish out of the country without further processing. It was claimed in the proposal that only 10 pst. the fish is landed in Coast Norway. That is not correct, as the representative of Nilsen was also involved. Of the Norwegian total quota for wild caught fish, about 50 pst are processed. in Norway. The Progress Party will continue to work on measures that can help to increase this proportion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e405	For the Centre Party, it is important to have a side effect on the production of both wild caught fish and farmed fish in Norway. We see the relationship between what's happening in the sea and what's happening on land, and we want a policy to take care of it. That is the background for proposal No. 1, we're behind, we're behind it. ‘will propose measures to ensure increased processing in Norway of Norwegian wild and farmed fish. Measures such as quota set-aside, fees and other measures were assessed’. The reality description of the representative Strifeldt may not be quite correct when it comes to the views of the Centre Party in this matter. Otherwise, the Senterpartiet has an own proposal that will be dealt with in Stortinget later, linked to fish, and we will come back to these issues in more detail. With that, I'm going to deal with the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e419	The representative of Geir Pollestad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e424	Quotation is not a new discussion in Norway. It was also sorted out back in 2006, by Nofima, and assessed at Stortinget. This is not a new discussion. There is no reason for the Storting to let the Harm fall over such a proposal. What we have landed on in Norway is that instead of quota moves, we have quota bonuses. Then it's related to e.g. a fresh fish bonus – that one gets a bonus if one delivers fresh fish in the spring and that one can get a quota in the fall. It's a very good arrangement that takes care of the exact same problem, which is that the more a prisoner of frozen fish, the more it tends to get out of the country without being made. It's a big problem for Norway, a big problem in many ways, which I thought I'd say a little bit about. A little bit of the problem for Norway is that there is too much fish at the same time, in season. Secondly, there is an increasing and excessive amount of frozen fish, thereby updating buyers from the rest of the world who can strengthen their production base. The paradox is that despite the fact that there is an increase in the market for fresh fish, there is an increase in the willingness to pay for fresh fish, there is an explicit fresh fish strategy on the Stortinget – we want more fresh fish, we need more production on land, we are all a few – and there are good margins for farms handling fresh fish, so increasing the supply of frozen fish. The difference in the price of fresh and frozen fish on the first hand has gone down considerably, but still there is in favorite frozen fish. The difference in export prices, on the other hand, increases only more and more in favour of fresh fish, but nevertheless increases the supply of frozen fish. Of course, this is not in Norwegian interest. So what we're doing is we're moving away from what the market wants. We increase the production base of our competitors, such as our competitors. China, which is a competition for Norwegian industrial companies, is doomed to lose. The answer to this is, of course, that one goes right into it and assesses different types of action. It has our proposals that the trawlers should set up a bonus scheme there. That's interesting. It works exactly the same way as a set of allowances because one benefits into the group. It would be moves for those who don't use it. The period of inactivity must be specified. One must have more bets on live storage. Compulsory trawlers must stop fishing during the season, as they do with one third of their catches today. It must be coordinated in such a way that the large supplies of caught fish are spread over several plants and can actually handle large quantities of fish. None of this is on the government's table. They continue with a policy that makes us less interesting to the market, and there more and more industry left the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e435	Just 5 pst. of the trawler fleet and the quota of the seagoing liner fleet were landed fresh in 2018. The coastal fishing fleet, all the boats less than 28 meters, delivered 99 pst. of its fresh catch on land in the same year. Throughout all years, the sea has provided jobs and ‘light in the house’ along the coast of Norway, but in recent decades changing governments have unfortunately depleted the coast by allowing trawlers to take over the quotas from the coastal fishing fleet and then sell the fish directly out of the country instead of to land. The most recent one here is that the farming industry has started immediately, represented by the slaughter boat «Norwegian Gannet», which takes up fish along the coast of the West and delivers it to the finished slaughter on land in Denmark. The fact that smaller and smaller fish are landed in Norway is a drain of Community resources. The fish must be returned to the community, which can secure and create activity along the whole coast and benefit the people, even in the future. Red will ensure that fish are landed in Norway and thus create jobs in the fishing industry along our coast. When only 5 pst. of the trawler fleet and the quota of the seagoing liner fleet will be landed fresh, we will lose jobs. We want to take back some of the 20,000 jobs that Norwegian fish today create in Europe instead of on land in Norway. That is why we are proposing the introduction of a legal system of quota set-aside based on the model from Iceland, which means that those who sell fish directly out of the country without being processed on land will have a reduced quota and a similar system for farmed fish will be put in place. This proposal, of course, is debatable by the government parties. Maybe not so strange – they get election support from one of the biggest owners behind «Norwegian Gannet», Bård Sekkingstad. But more surprising is perhaps that the Workers' Party seems to be sleeping a little per hour. Now Sekking Town and the other owners can develop and perfect models to vacuum the coast of fish and workplaces. The fish is processed on a boat, out of sight, out of control by trade unions and the Labour Inspectorate. This boat represents a major threat to Norwegian jobs and also to the Norwegian working life model, and the whole red-green side should take over, says Red. We note that the arguments of the government parties are as wasted from the nose of the trawler and leachobby. No surprise there, but perhaps more surprising is that the Progress Party and, in part, the Workers' Party are on the same gallery, but there is no shame in turning around. I bring this up with our suggestions on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e450	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e455	The representative here draws a picture that the fish in the sea no longer provide jobs and ‘light in the house’ along the coast of Norway. I don't recognize that, on the contrary. Marine nutrition is of particular importance for value creation, employment and rural settlements along the coast, and it should continue to be. Increasing the processing of seafood in Norway and ensuring access to raw materials by industry are high on the government’s agenda. The introduction of a quota line on unprocessed fish will not be an extensive hand for the seafood industry. Rather, it would seem to be a foot link to one of our most profitable district industries and a punishment of the fishermen. The main rule in Norway — in comparison with Iceland — is that the fleet and processing stage are separated on the owner’s side. It would be unreasonable to apply an allowance to the fisherman in order not to process a fish she or he himself does not control after it has been sold, as the representative suggests. Implementing an Icelandic system in Norway raises fundamental questions about the law that several governments and the Stortinget have to underline. It is close to thinking about a structure for Norwegian fisheries, if we were to see how developments are in Iceland, where there will be very few large owners of Norwegian fishing resources. I don't know if that's the kind of development the representative wants. In Norway, we still need a differentiated fishing fleet. The general rule is that the person who has a fishing quota is also the fisherman. Our main task is to facilitate progress in the right direction. It is about supporting an industry that consists mainly of Norwegian-owned, locally owned family businesses, some large and many small ones. It is about making it attractive to invest in business and processing in Norway. It's about securing profitable and attractive jobs. Norway’s way out of the corona crisis is to facilitate positive further development in the maritime food industry, where innovation and development are invested in order to secure future jobs in District Norway. Therefore, to limit an industry that competes globally, through measures proposed by the representative, I have little faith.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e473	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e478	There's a lot of good words about securing processing. But, as we have discussed earlier, the measures to achieve this are important. In the previous discussion in this room on fisheries policy, the Minister for Fisheries expressed enthusiasm for the new programme of the Workers' Party. There it is, among others. a proposal to reintroduce the requirement of apprentices, further processing and research and development for the main operators in aquaculture. Is there a proposal that the Minister would like to support?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e483	I can start by saying that we are publishing today that we are increasing apprentice quotas on cod to motivate ship owners to take more apprenticeship places. Then I very much agree with the representative in the intention and that we need to have more apprenticeships for young people. We have a record search on the fishing and catching line and young people who want to enter the industry, and then it's very important that we organize and motivate more apprenticeships. To support a claim I can't immediately say that I do, but I have to say that I found up to several points in the Workers' Party's program that I thought was positive. So I want to say that it's very important to get more processing. The reality is that there are no simple solutions for that. The measures we have put in place, such as the freshwater system, live storage bonuses, research, which also create new opportunities in freezing technologies, and cod farming, which can help to balance the major seasonal fluctuations, open up a wide range of opportunities for all-year-old new jobs. That's what's needed to get people to move to District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e492	Now I'm of the opinion that you also need to make demands, you have to achieve the desired results. You have to be present and have instruments from the state, but you also have to make demands. But one of the reasons we're where we are now, given the great uncertainty you see along the coast, is about the quota notification. We have to go back to that. There is a reason why there are new proposals and that there is a great deal of uncertainty, and that is that we do not yet fully know the consequences of the quota notification that was adopted almost exactly a year ago. Can the Minister for Fisheries, now that we have seen the developments that have taken place in the last year, see that it is a good idea to re-examine the work on a quota notification in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e499	I totally disagree with the representative that a notification of allowances 2.0 will create more predictability for the industry. On the contrary, we will then contribute to further years of uncertainty and investigation, and if there is one thing we have had enough of, there are investigations, although the Riksrevision has pointed out that in 2008 there were some things that should have been better investigated. What I'm talking about is not the quota notification itself, but how we're going to be able to re-distribute the structural gains or quotas when they start falling back in 2027, and the transition to actual length, which is a simplification of Fisheries Norway. That's what we need to find good solutions. We don't need an allowance message 2.0 to do that. It is a matter of finding good solutions in close cooperation with the industry on how the structural quotas, which constitute half of the fishing quotas, are to be redistributed to the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e506	After all, the Minister of Fisheries and the parties behind this government are about. The only people who just said that. If you ask the actors along the coast, the Fiskerlage, for example, they are of a completely different opinion. What happened last year has created enormous uncertainty. You don't know what kind of framework conditions to deal with, so I don't think it can be more uncertain than what it is now. Clearly, restarting work is the only right thing when there are so many loose threads that create uncertainty. And yes, it's about ensuring fairer distribution and taking over the Riksrevision's criticism, that the big ones have become bigger, the owner's concentration is obviously too large. Working with structural quotas is going to be important, but everything is related to everything. Does the Minister for Fisheries not see the recordings that come from so many actors along the coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e511	Now I want to say that the fishing industry is very good at dealing with uncertainty, whether it is bad weather or the fish walking, etc. It has made them manage well through crises, fortunately, for the world needs healthy Norwegian seafood. We don't need an allowance sign of 2.0. I think it's a proposal that comes because you really don't know what you want, and what is the solution, precisely because there are no simple solutions, and then it's much better to try to figure things out a little bit longer and bore the water. The point here is that we actually have to find solutions to how the structural quotas should fall back, and that had to be done regardless of whether it was a quota notification or not. It's the big uncertainty in the industry, and it's up to the Storting and the government to try to find good solutions to, in collaboration with the industry, to solve what comes in 2027.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e518	There are some truths I'm typing the Minister for Fisheries and I can be a few. The only thing is that the more frozen fish are taken and delivered, the less they are made in Norway. The bigger the boats fishing the fish, the more the frog fish gets caught. This is a major issue, and we are still there to deliver too much frozen fish, which means that we strengthen the industry in other countries, weaken the Norwegian industry, etc. A very adjacent issue is what was sent out on the hearing of the Fisheries Directorate, which is about the possibility of vessels over 21 meters to fish inside the baseline. There, the Directorate for Fisheries suggests removing the possibility for boats over 21 metres to fish inside the baseline. But so far nothing has happened in the matter. What time should the Council of State take effect on that decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e525	That's exactly the last one coming pretty soon. There has been a consultation round, an abbreviated consultation round — it is important to get feedback from the industry. There are several issues that the representative raises. We've signaled that we want to prioritize the smallest fleet within the baseline, and then it's a question of whether we're going to have a general ban on ships over 21 meters, or whether we're going to have even more detailed solutions and take some areas. It is not necessarily the case that there should be a general ban this year or the exemption that the fleet has had. We are not fully satisfied with this matter, but there will be a solution quite soon. That's the short answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e532	This is very closely linked, because what we've seen is that an increasing proportion of the fish from the largest boats are taken inside the baseline. They use this option to make exceptions. It weakens coastal fishing, which largely fishes fresh fish, which is possible to operate on land. The real industrial strategy for Norway is to leave those waters there for the smallest fleet. And of course, it's complicated. In some parts of the country, the baseline and the fjord line suddenly intervene in each other, and that one has to make adjustments, but that's what I'm suggesting that the Directorate of Fisheries and the Department have very clear solutions and opinions on. We in SV want to remove that exception altogether, the possibility of going inside, especially in the situation the smallest fleet is in, and with industry as today's theme. So, is this coming fast? That's the pace that's important now. We're in the middle of a fishing trip. The need to clarify it quickly – immediately – is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e541	There will be some measures today that will address measures for the smallest fleet, in terms of quota and such things. We have published it today. Then there's also a bigger discussion if that's what the representative says. I do not automatically agree that frozen fish are not processed in Norway. The clipping industry is based on frozen fish. It's very important. One point is that if the market wants frozen fish, we have enough fish in Norway to get it out. We must also have market access. There are many facets in the process of increasing processing. We take it for granted that we are e.g. have competitive market access. It's not obvious. At least the EEA Agreement should be suspended, which is a guarantee of stable market access – which is the bottom plan to be able to operate with increased processing. Then we need Norwegian ownership and local business owners who want to bet and drive. We see that, for example. the market in fresh fish has fallen due to corona, and restaurants around the world — to the extent in Norway too — have been closed. Things change, and you have to adapt to the market as it changes. It's the industry pretty good at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e551	The fishing boat «Norwegian Gannet» is now being taken directly into the mermaids of farms in Norway and is then headed for Hirtshals. The government has granted the owners a ten-year derogation from the Fish Quality Regulation, which allows boat owners – who are also campaign contributors to the Right – to develop and perfect models to vacuum the coast of fish and jobs. This boat represents a threat to Norwegian jobs and the Norwegian working life model. Does the Council of State consider that the rule of production from which Norwegian Gannet has been exempted provides sufficient protection against raging the fish processing industry or will it take measures to ensure that Norwegian fish are landed in Norway by other means?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e558	It is still the case that ‘Norwegian Gannet’ is obliged to land the production fish in Norway and have it processed there before taking it out. Otherwise, it is in the fisheries that you have not too much involved yourself in the free design that the fishermen themselves, whether it is a shag or anything else, want to do to adapt the vessel to the activity they are doing. I record that most of the time is spent on getting attention to ‘Norwegian Gannet’ and little time on the Icelandic model, which is really the main part of the Red’s proposal in this context. It is good that that proposal is being scrapped, because it will not be positive to get more processing in Norway, which the representative from Red should be concerned about. A side effect I do not think the representative has been aware of is that it may hardly be desirable for us to have a structure in Norwegian fisheries, as well as what we have in Iceland.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e565	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e572	What I am actually speaking about is the claim that we are debatable of this proposal. We haven't done that in a long time. We have gone seriously into the proposal. We have examined whether this proposal has been implemented elsewhere. It's not. We have examined whether the claims in the background information are correct, leading to correctness. They don't. Still, it's said that we're debatable. We don't trivialize, we've taken this seriously, we've found that this proposal won't have the effect you want, because bakers are directed for blacksmiths. At the same time, I would say that if there had been a willingness to do so, to quote a representative in the hall, you could check these facts. There is information available. It's pretty easily accessible information about this. But that's what you've chosen not to do. Instead, it has been decided to repeat some of these manifestly incorrect claims from the pulpit here, as well as quite a number of allegations about its colleagues. In this context, I would like to say that then you're going to start showing which fish has been transferred to the trawls from the coastal fisheries. You have to show the landings that don't go down, they go up. We need to clear this up eventually, because it is not right in a debate that there are still allegations from this pulpit that do not lead to correctness. It's a concern. It's a concern we should all have. What comes from this pulpit should be, at least where possible, relatively good facts-finding. Then there are some people who have claimed that factual check-ups are a foretaste of the debate, but I think in this case it might be an advantage. There is no de minimis approach; this is taken very seriously. But this is a bad suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e583	I thought the way the position rejected the proposal was exciting. The introduction of the Icelandic model in Norwegian fisheries is problematic, we in SV are against vertical and horizontal integration, etc. We're very busy keeping these distinctions that we have today. But it's not the right-hand side. The right-hand side, at least before entering government offices, has been open for much greater integration, has seen Iceland and seen it as a success before. But that flute has a different sound. So it's with satisfaction I now see that one rejects it on that basis. One doesn't want a situation in Norway where there's a connection between the fishing line and the industry and the sales line, as it is in Iceland. It is good that we have moved the debate there, that the Norwegian fishing model is beginning to get a bigger anchor, wider in the political landscape, and where the right side ends up dreaming about giga companies that are going to own the entire value chain. That's good. So I just want to tackle one thing that I'm wondering if the government can figure out, for some of what we did, and where SV agreed with the government in connection with the quota notification, we were going to go over to the actual length. This means that the free design system is over. Of course, you should design the vessel as you like, but you cannot expect the quota to come with you. If you have an allowance within a certain length group, you cannot build the boat as small as you like; it must be within that length group, if one is still allowed to have that quota. In other words, the ship design system is over. But the fact that the Council of State said that we have a free ship design system today made me uncertain about what decision we have actually made. I guess that's the way we've gone over to the actual length, which we in SV are completely in agreement with that we're going to have? It's very important to stop the very unfortunate, very capital-driven development of the industry, where the boats grew bigger and bigger, which is devastating to coastal communities and industry and to the social economy as a whole. If there is any doubt that the free design of the vessel has been stopped, that one is now opening up so that one can still move the vessel upwards in the system, then I will have an answer to that now, because it is a very important clarification. I thought I could be right – we will see that in the minutes afterwards, or the Council of State might come up and clarify – that he said that free design still applies. I just want to make that clear, because there's a bigger fundamental discussion we haven't taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e592	I have to clarify a few things – first to the representative Moxnes from Red. The working party does not sleep at all in the hour. We're dealing with facts. We're dealing with the Riksrevision's criticism. It should also be Red. Then I realize that it might be tempting to spend time kicking off the Workers' Party. It may be part of Red's election strategy at times. But I expect Red to also relate to the situation that we are in. The situation we are in is that the fishing industry is living in great uncertainty because a quota notification has been adopted that gives so many uncertainties. One of the most important critical points of the National Audit Office is precisely to make decisions that are not consistent. This proposal does not help, and it should also be taken over. On the other hand, the Centre Party and SV have promoted a wise proposal that we will therefore support. In the reply to the Minister for Fisheries, it was said in a statement that the Workers' Party also has no response that is different from what was adopted. That's not true. I also recommend that the Minister for Fisheries read the proposals that came mainly from the red-green side, for example. the fact that the open group is still to be taken from the top, or the need to have measures to limit the owner’s concentration, or the fact that we want to have a dynamic radial, or to have a different distribution key than this government wants. Another proposal was that we want to have an additional quota arrangement of at least 10 pst., set requirements for processing, fair distribution and increased recruitment. All of this is real suggestions, and they're different from what the government wants. So I think it's time for the government and the Minister of Fisheries to stop saying that the Workers' Party has no solutions. We have, and our proposals would give a much better distribution for the coast, much more just for the whole coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e603	It is good that the Workers' Party supports the proposal of the SV and the Centre Party. It's a step in the right direction after they went in the head for – it has to be said – to let Kjell Inge Smoke seal the whole coast for fish and drop to the quota barons. It was the Labour Party's work – it's probably everyone here in the Chamber very aware of. But then it's sleeping an hour to not want to do anything about "Norwegian Gannet." The proposal is there. This is about the future of the fishing industry. It's just to vote for it if the Workers' Party wants to wake up at that point. With regard to the proposal, inspired by Iceland, it is claimed that there is no such scheme there and that neither can shipping companies be subject to quota reductions for fish that the industry is selling unprocessed out of the country. But that is the home of the Icelandic Minister for Fisheries as a mandate and as a rice behind the mirror. And it has worked! To avoid losing allowances, Icelandic shipping companies have invested in processing activities. That is why it is right, as some people argue against our proposal, that no Icelandic shipping company exports frozen fish to the industry in Poland and China, as it does in Norway. The law has worked. That's the goal of the law, not to punish people, but to make it work and have the desired effect. In addition, it may not be appropriate for the administration of such export restrictions to be so incredibly difficult to achieve. Fishing is not subject to the EEA Agreement. Thus, the authorities may attach conditions to the allocation of the economic value of a free fishing quota, such as: requiring the sellers of fish to buyers who export the frozen or bulked fish to the foreign industry to have an additional quota feature, for example. 20 pst. It will then be part of the purchase contract that the fish sales laws must conclude and control. The purchaser must then be able to demonstrate, whether it is the company's own sales company or another buyer, the use of the caught catch purchased before settlement in the holding registry. It's not complicated. The type of competition-regulating contracts is quite common in the business world. For example, we see supermarket chains demanding subcontractors not to produce the same product to their competitors. What's at the heart of this is the allocation of allowances, which is an exclusive right to harvest the Community's resources, free of charge. You can set conditions for the use of these allowances, and the shipping companies can't run from that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e622	First to the actual length and the question from SV: there we still fully agree, so in that case I must have expressed myself unclear. What has been adopted is on the ground, and the actual length is to be carried out. That's what they say. To the representative Myrseth, my point was that there are no simple solutions in view of what everyone here in the Chamber really wants to achieve, namely that increased processing should help us to get more – preferably all-year-old – jobs along the coast of District Norway. It is a broad political desire, but your path is not necessarily simple. This requires, among other things: that we have a competitive market access. We can't take that for granted. It also requires a stable supply of raw materials. It is challenging because we have such great seasonal fluctuations especially in cod fisheries. But there might be some people who think it's possible to assume that cod fishing will spread all year round. I can't. We must then facilitate, for example. through arrangements such as the fresh fish system and live storage bonus. The fact that we have invested in marine research opens up new opportunities, for example. in the case of freezing technologies, where the preliminary findings are that with the new technology the quality of frozen fish is as good as fresh fish after three years. If it is true, it opens up new opportunities to plan production, to create full-year jobs, and this is now to be tested in Båtsfjord – very exciting. We are probably in agreement with the state fishing industry that is not the solution. We've tried that before without luck. So it's about creating facilities for private people, many of whom are in the fishing industry, many locally owned family businesses. Many of them have earned money because the industry is profitable, and they want to bet. These are the kind of people we need to want to invest in further processing if they see market opportunities for it. This must be the basis of a profitable business. So there's also a lot of discussion about it with big and small. There I would like to say that with the quota notification, the coastal fleet has increased its quantity, and the government has as its starting point that there should be no significant redistribution of resources between fleet groups. The coastal fleet has increased its share of cod quotas. In Norway, we should wish to have a differentiated fleet with ownership restrictions. I think that's pretty solid for most people. The Participation Act and the Marine Resource Act must be in place. That's a lot of challenges. It is a common desire to have more processing, but one must not have too naive a belief that all possible political decisions can create such a development. People need to do that job, create those jobs and build that industry if they see opportunities in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e633	While the debate has gone, I have been sitting and refreshing memories of the trip that the Business Committee had to Japan in September 2016. I have been sitting and looking at pictures from when we visited a fish processing company outside Tokyo that processed Norwegian mackerel, where we got to be with the factory manager into the freezer store and see boxes delivered by Karsten Flem AS, Longva in Ålesund – round, unprocessed, frozen mackerel exported to Japan, processed there and then sold on one of the largest markets for Norwegian seafood, the Japanese market. I fully agree with the representative of Nilsen that this is a bad proposal from Red, and what I have just mentioned also clearly shows why this is correcting for blacksmiths. Are we really going to have a system that is such that when a ring-not boat from Ålesund delivers the catch to Karsten Flem and Karsten Flem chooses to freeze the fish, sell it to Japan for processing there, then skipper and crew on the ring-not boat are to be pulled into quota? What's that? I would like to get a clarification from the Center Party, SV and the Workers' Party, which will actually propose today to have such a system investigated. Is it really the case that the three batches will have a system in which the fisherman is set up after having delivered the catch to a holding which, on the basis of a principle of nutrition, must be allowed to assess for itself how that catch is to be handled further?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e640	The representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e646	I think the representative riding must read the referata. I said it clearly: we do not support the proposal to introduce quota moves because we do not want Icelandic states in Norway – for very many reasons of principle. And I was very pleased with the answer to the position, which said that they would also not have Icelandic conditions in Norwegian fishing, we still want the Sea Resource Act and the Participant Act to stand firm, etc. However, the point of this proposal is that it points to a major problem in Norwegian fisheries policy. It is that too much of the fish leaves the country, too little of the fish is processed in Norway. And this was an opportunity for the position not to roll over the proposal, but to come and put on the table what their solution was, what they're thinking is the way forward, how they're going to stop the crazy development that we're seeing. These are Norwegian industrial workplaces, these are Norwegian small and medium-sized and large industries we are talking about. They are losing and losing on the policy that this government is pursuing. Here's the possibility to say, no, we're going to reverse that evolution. But what do they do? No, they just raid over suggestions and change it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e653	Only one answer to the representative Reiten: the center party and I are confident that the working party and SV share the commitment that we want more jobs, value creation and employment associated with the fish in Norway. And what we're doing today is pretty little eye-catching. We put forward a proposal asking the government to resolve these questions, and then we take a position on them afterwards. Well, that's the right way to do it. I want to remind the positioning party that what is not the right way to do it is like the positioning party did when we dealt with the quota notification, that is, when a decision was taken, and then hung up on a decision that a government asked for the things they had agreed, which were not dealt with. That is how we do not create fisheries policy. So the difference here is that the opposition takes the fishing industry seriously. We make sure that things are settled, evaluated, and then we take a position on them, as opposed to the government party, together with the Progress Party, which adopted a number of things and then extended the decision: Now we ask the government to sort out the things that are not paid out. So here should be a little bit careful when criticizing the process, and how to proceed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e658	I have registered that the Central Party, SV and the Workers' Party are voting against the Red Party's proposal, and of course I and the other representatives of the government parties are pleased. But what we're also recording is that the same three parties want such a principle figured out, and it's actually so alarming that I find reason to point it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e663	I feel that there is a broad desire to get more jobs and increased processing. I think it is also important to find out that Nofima's latest processing efficiency study shows that there is a positive development, that the processing rate is increasing. So at least it goes in the right direction, even if we want to get to even more of that. So I think it's important to think of the fishing industry as an eternal renewable industry – if we manage it right and sustainable. It can also be an important part of Norway's way out of the crisis, towards the future, namely that we need to create even more jobs in the private sector, and we need to get profitable jobs and not least full-time jobs. The profitability of the fishing industry is an excellent starting point for further development. This, of course, requires that we succeed in continuing to be very good at sustainable management, which Norway is very good at in the global context, and it also demands that this industry has competitive market access. We can't eat all the fish ourselves and depend on exporting it. And Norway is a small country. We need to interact with the world around us, and we need to secure market access for such an important district industry. I perceive that the path to the goal here may be somewhat different, but there is a relatively broad goal in the hall of increased processing and the desire for more jobs in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e672	The representative Cecilie Myrseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e677	It is obvious that the government parties have forgotten what happened here a year ago, when I hear the representative Reiten being so amazed and it seems obvious that the red-green parties want to have different proposals evaluated. Isn't that what you do? Is that not the way to look at possible solutions, by having different proposals evaluated, so that the consequences can be seen for and against? That's exactly what government parties should have done last year, before they threw the fishing industry into the mess they're now experiencing, that you don't know what kind of conditions the industry should be dealing with. If you had done as the red-green suggests, you would have had a completely different situation. But hopefully it'll be a shift, so you can get a new course for the whole coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e682	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e697	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e704	First, let me give a warm welcome to the Council of State for a thorough account of the press situation and freedom of expression in Norway. Both part one and part two contained new information and facts about the trends encountered by the media in Norway. In particular, I think it is good that the Council of State places so much emphasis on the challenge of digitisation combined with internationalisation, especially with regard to the major international companies Facebook, Google, YouTube, etc., which, through its algorithms, are far-reaching in control of the agenda, which is not taxes on Norway, which are taking advertising revenue, and which, as the Council of State described, is partly driving censorship in a slightly transparent and little discussionable way. These are very important issues, and the Council of State should know that there is an impatient opposition to the possibility of taxing the business and, in particular, the advertising revenue that these companies take from the Norwegian community. This is a dramatic transition in billions, from the Norwegian, ordinary, traditional media to these international giants. The new technology can contribute to diversity, as described by the Council of State, but it can also, of course, contribute to uniformity. We thought that with the Internet we should all be informed and informed. Or maybe we're all being tricked. You can search and get facts in all directions, and it's hard to know what's right. You can get false news that creates conflict and polarization, at worst episodes of persecution and violence. There can be commitment and experience, but there can also be very negative feelings and conflicts. Many live in echo chambers through Facebook feed, etc., where we only have our own opinions confirmed. These are important issues in a diverse media community, stressing the need for the traditional editorial media in Norway, with confidence and, as the Council of State describes, with source control and fact-control — media that we can trust. We've seen that here too, there are challenges. They're the ones who sign out of it, who don't trust the media. And the media are also being pushed by digitalization. Click-journalism, where selling advertisements is the most important thing, where the market department is demanding, is a huge challenge in a media society where we also need the thorough digging and thorough journalistic issues that don't necessarily sell most ads. We also need diversity in Norway. We have an increasing ownership concentration, we have large groups, a little bit related to digitisation. It is good that digitisation and investment are also made in small newspapers that cooperate with or are part of a large group, but it is also such that even if you have an editorial freedom, it is the owner who appoints the board and the board who employs editors. So there's a connection between having a diversity of ownership and having a diversity in the media. This is a developmental trajectory that worries. We also see drug exchange within groups, you have front managers at the same rate, you have a sharing of content that allows you to get less diversity than you had before. We used to have a media ownership law. On the part of the Labour Party, we still believe that it is important to maintain a diversity of ownership with the necessary legislation to do so. There is also reason to ask about the white spots, which were mentioned in detail in the media message. Why isn't a case discovered like the Nav scandal before? What about both the policy and the media, so that vulnerable groups are not noticed, taken up and examined? It would just be a task that should have been taken up a lot earlier. The media also have power. All those having power are exposed to ‘checks and balances’. We have the freest media sector in the world, the Council of State said. That's right. You have a self-justice system within the media. The question is, is this sustainable over time, when the digital media make things spread very quickly? I think it's going to be an important debate, along with the social consequences for children and young people of now living in a world where you publish yourself all the time. It is not accidental that mental problems among children and young people have increased in parallel with the digitisation of social media.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e723	On May 3rd was the day of freedom of the press, and in times of crisis it is particularly important that we are informed, and that we get answers to our questions. Only independent journalism and a variety of media can guarantee us that, and I use the opportunity to congratulate you on the day. I would like to thank the Council of State for a very good presentation. As the rapporteur for a number of media cases in recent years, and not least for the media support message, I am pleased that we have now produced an annual report to the Stortinget on freedom of expression and freedom of the press. This sector deserves it. I am concerned about stressing the importance of editor-driven journalistic editorials. We are clear that media pluralism is important in a democratic perspective, that a good and broad media diversity is crucial in the fight against false news from blogs, comment fields and social media. In the media support communication, an overall committee concluded that the government would come back with the announced overall review of media support. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State said that this work has been started. A major challenge in the media field is related to technology giants such as Facebook and Google. These pay little taxes and play an important role in the dissemination of editorial material. There is a need for international driving rules and more international cooperation. The digitisation of the economy means that companies can have significant value creation in a country without being physically present. At the same time, the general rule is international that the income of a company can be taxed only if the company is physically present in the country. A cooperation body in the OECD and the G20 is working on a coordinated solution for this which is divided into two pillars. Pillar one is about redistributing tax rights independently of the physical presence of companies, and Pillar two is about ensuring minimum taxation of large multinational companies. I am pleased that Norway is actively involved in this work. It is profoundly problematic when platforms act as censorship board to Norwegian editors. If a Norwegian editor-driven medium publishes within the framework of Norwegian criminal law, the Media Liability Act and the Norwegian media pressety legislation, the platforms should not be able to overdo this. We cannot leave responsibility for the Norwegian public to faceless technology giants. As part of its digital strategy, the EU has proposed two regulations: the Digital Services Act and the Digital Markets Act. DSA contains, inter alia: a framework on how technology companies should deal with illegal content on their platforms and more transparency on the use of algorithms by platforms. DMA implies that large carrier companies will be designated as gatekeepers and imposed obligations contributing to balanced and open conditions of competition. I am pleased that the government is actively involved in these processes and that they have announced that they are aiming for an EFTA position to safeguard our interests. I myself want to follow it up through the EFTA and EEA Delegation of Storting. I have met with Schibsted, who is working closely on these issues within the EU, and they report that they are relatively satisfied with the regulations as they have been presented and that they are also satisfied with the government's positions in this work so far. For a long time, we were most concerned with the positive aspects of the new platforms. In the last few years, we've seen more of the medal's backside. We have seen several examples of platforms interacting with Norwegian businesses and Norwegian citizens in a way that we do not want or should not accept. A few years ago, Facebook censored the historical image of napalm girl from the Vietnam War that the Evening Post published, and recently the Holocaust Center was banned for days without any explanation. Media policy is a democracy policy, and a diversity of independent, critical and professional media is a crucial prerequisite for a well-functioning democracy. The pandemic has reminded us of this. Norway has the ambition to be a leading nation in promoting freedom of expression and independent media. We are. We're topping the International Press Freedom Index for Reporters without Borders, for five consecutive years. The top position shows that we're very successful in a lot of these areas, but there's a position that we have to work every single day to keep.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e744	I would like to begin by thanking the Council of State for the presentation of two important issues, both freedom of expression and freedom of the media, the situation of the media, in Norway. I'm going to start saying a few words about freedom of expression, because it's under pressure, even if we live in a free democracy. We see that out of self-sensorship and threats and a more difficult climate, whether it's extremists, people who practice violence, or other things that make it have a higher price and a higher cost to put your head up and speak in public about their opinions. We have also seen other examples of violence in the use of freedom of expression. One example is the SIAN demonstrations last year. And even though I have very little in common with SIAN's opinions, I would remind you of what Voltaire said, as many of us often quote, namely that freedom of expression is not about agreeing with those who are allowed to express themselves, but that everyone should have the right to say what they mean. Then we have a situation with social media, which has been a fantastic door opener for the little man all over the world knowing that everyone can say what they mean in channels that were previously not available. It's basically positive, but we also see that social media, comments on the Internet, etc. contribute to hot flushes, suffocation and, in some cases, raise the threshold of speech, which is unfortunate. Governments themselves have been exposed to it. And I saw a case a few days ago with MDG's City Council in Oslo, Lan Marie Berg, with whom I have very little political in common, but who told about how she's been called hair-driving, unacceptable things, like "guling" and so on, because of her background. This shows that although there is a lot of positive progress in terms of freedom of expression, something like that. social media is, there are also some disadvantages that we have to fight to make sure that we don't scare people away from using freedom of expression, but on the contrary creates a safe framework to use the opportunity and freedom to speak in both small and large forums. The second part of the statement is about the media. The media are under pressure in large parts of the world. In Norway, we are lucky to have such free and open democracy, and as many free and diverse media as we have. The fourth state power largely lives well in Norway. The Council of State explained how Norwegian media have been at the forefront of technological development by offering online products for payment that Norwegian people also consume. We're further in that transformation than many others are, even though we still have a long way to go. We in the Progress Party are also pleased that the media image has become more diverse. We're happy that alternative media create a width of voices and angles of incidence. We believe that this is good both for Norwegian media as a whole and for Norway. We also adopted some laws here last year, which regulate a lot around the media and editor-driven media houses, which are positive. The Progress Party believes that there are some structural things with Norwegian media policy that are fundamentally unlucky and that also contribute to distortions of competition. We still have a lot of newspapers that receive large sums of press support, like many other newspapers in the same market, that fight for the same readers, the same ad crowns, the same content, have to compete against. We believe it is fundamentally very unfortunate that there is such a direct connection between government funding and the media, which should be independent and have a long arm's length distance from the authorities. We have also raised several times the concerns about the dominant power position of the NRK in Norway. The NRK is fully protected from the reality that the rest of Norwegian media houses have to deal with daily, while taking an increasingly dominant position within new surfaces such as nets, podcasts, etc., that other commercial media houses daily struggle to get into. This creates a distortion of competition at the expense of other media houses that Norwegian taxpayers are involved in financing. These are concerns that the Progress Party believes should be addressed. We therefore have two proposals, which we have promoted here today, which I would like to address – on a phasing out plan to remove the production grant for the so-called meaningful national newspapers, and to start introducing a reduction in the appropriations for the NRC from next year's government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e763	Then the representative Himanshu Gulati has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e768	Thanks to the Minister of Culture for his presentation, where it was natural to point out that Norway peaks the international press freedom index of reporters without limits for five consecutive years. It makes me proud. Fortunately, neither I nor the Minister take it for granted, as we share the ambition to be a leading nation in promoting freedom of expression and independent media. Covid-19 has shown us the importance of the editorial media for democracy and our lives – for our need for entertainment, for information, for analysis, for critical questions and for debate – that underlines the importance of Norway's active media policy. We in the Center Party want an even more active policy than the government to support under the editorial media. We want to increase production support – not take it from anyone to give to others – increase innovation support, increase support for research journalism, increase support for local media more and put in place the toolbox we at Stortinget have promised the industry. The reason why we in the Center Party want an even greater strengthening of the media than the government is how hard the media is being hit by dramatic ad loss to international giants like Google and Facebook. Together with their high need for investment in digitisation and high competition from both international media actors and, unfortunately, from more or less unprofessional alternative media, we believe that there is a need to strengthen media support further in the future, at least for a period of time. It will enable the serious media to create even more, better, relevant and gravitating journalism in the future. This is a heartchild for me, because I think winning the competition against the alternative media that doesn't relate to the same presseetic standards, or that spreads false news, is very good medicine. That the serious media are always better, so that readers, listeners and titters see the difference in quality and maintain confidence in them, is important. Because if the trust in the serious media is to disappear, democracy is bad. This concern is also shared by the Minister of Culture, and he well explained the importance of maintaining both trust and coping with hot, hateful expressions and the dissemination of disinformation. I look forward to the outcome of the Freedom of Speech Commission and the work to promote critical media understanding in the population. Otherwise, I very much agree with the Minister on how problematic it is that platform companies such as Google and Facebook censor Norwegian editors based on their guidelines. A directive that the Minister of Culture pointed to in the presentation was the new AMT Directive, which will have implications for better regulation of services from video sharing platforms such as YouTube and for platforms such as Netflix, with new demands for a significant Norwegian share and to finance it. It's time, because we need to build up and not down our own film and television production environment. The Minister also addressed another major challenge we face with large multinational companies, namely the taxation of these companies. A lot of people are impatient, and I hope that over the course of the Minister and the government has come to grips with it, in fact, this year, otherwise we will have to take action and perhaps go to other countries. As the Minister stressed in the statement, the ever-increasing global competition and the digitisation of strongly Norwegian media are challenging the operating base, not least for radio and newspapers. As a mediation, we also have great competition in-house. This is very good for the media diversity that we are all concerned with, but the media message we received not so long ago showed that the media diversity is not good enough, which the representative also pointed out. Media support must then be used sensibly to provide diversity. It is then natural that meaningful newspapers that contribute strongly to our diversity of opinion are strengthened – not liquidated, as the Progress Party suggests. The local media, with its vulnerable economy, are not least very important to support extra good economics, but not at the expense of other important media, as the government wants with its redistribution. In particular, our local media should receive better help during covid-19. The Minister boasts of the measures taken for the media under the pandemic, but fails to mention that he and the government have not listened to the call of local authorities for assistance to them with less than 15 000 in circulation, which is not taken by the media support scheme. It is sad and wrong that they do not get any more help from the authorities when they have then until those degrees have been important for the control of the pandemic out in the communities. In Stortinget, the Senterpartiet has fought a lot for the locals, but also for the local radios, which include: have contributed to their being given part of the media support, received help under the corona and not least was given the opportunity to continue on the FM out of 2026. But in the name of media pluralism and freedom of expression, I find it strange that a media minister from the Left, in a statement like this, does not discuss the challenges of Norwegian authorities refusing commercial radio stations to send in our four major cities, and with that, the inhabitants there, a large part of our population, actually refuse to get the media diversity that they could have. We are also the only country that has forced the closure of national channels on the FM network. The fact that Norway is exercising force in the radio market is something I am not proud of, and thinks that we should also have better ambitions in this area on behalf of media pluralism and freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e789	Freedom of expression should take place. It is up to the authorities of the State to facilitate an open, informed public conversation. The Constitution § 100 sets the framework for an active media policy through this so-called infrastructure requirement, and Norwegian media policy has been a great success. Among other things, through media support and a strong public broadcaster, we have a rich diversity of media in this country. We should be proud of that, because the diversity of free, editorial media is a cornerstone of our democracy. This last year's pandemic has once again shown the social critical function of the press. The availability of quality assurance information on the pandemic and its consequences has been crucial in the last year, and the press has done its social work in an excellent way. But the pandemic has also led to reduced advertising revenue for many media. Especially the small, local media notice the consequences, and it's just enough a stone to the burden of editorial work that was already in a very difficult economic situation. Because what Raja talked a little bit about in the presentation is what we're doing about the massive advertising leak that Norwegian media have experienced in recent years, where Norwegian media have lost billions of dollars in favor of the global digital social networks, such as Facebook, Google, and so on. So leaking advertising is the most important thing we can do for the media's economy. Global tekgigants actually trade too large sums in Norway, but they are barely taxed at all. That bias in competition conditions loses Norwegian media, and we have to do something about that, and we can do something about that. Several countries now have different models of taxing these companies. There's no need to sit and wait for international negotiations while our media are bleeding. The majority has previously decided to ask the government to investigate a national tax on the value creation in Norway from multinational companies with a digital performance platform. But the investigation has not led to anything. Therefore, the time has come for a new decision, and it proposes SV to this case today. The same majority as at the time should apply today. What is, on the other hand, a media-political bomber's shot from the government is sending the local view bill to the nation-wide opinion papers. More media support for the locals is good, but it is completely unnecessary to let it go beyond some of the most important contributors to our media diversity, as newspapers like Our Country, the Newspaper and the Nations are. If we are serious about the fact that the free press is a foundation for our democracy, we must increase the framework for media support. Global tekgigants not only control large cash flows; they also control more and more of the information flows. They sit on enormous power when they control the platforms, algorithms, editing and censorship of their services – without transparency, without transparency, without reprobability. I would like to thank Raja for a very good problematization of that in her presentation. It is disappointing that after eight years of power, however, the government does not come up with anything more offensive to that development than to point out that the freedom of expression Commission considers it. Therefore, SV today promotes proposals to ask the government to start a proper investigation and come back to Stortinget with a case on the regulation of the tekgigants. It is clearer, broader and more binding than the mandate of the European Commission on freedom of expression today. I started with the Basic Law § 100, and I will end with it as well. For § 100, we also say: «Everyone has the right to access the documents of the state and the municipalities. The power must be able to be controlled and held responsible by the Stortinget, by the press and by the people. Unnecessary secrecy prevents the open and enlightened public conversation. Therefore, it is serious that this government is constantly distorting the practice of public disclosure and transparency, and it is relevant for this discussion. We have seen it through security upgrades in several important security policy debates. We've seen it in the control committee with constant transparency in government documents that have been central to our affairs, both the Storting and the press. And we see it now when the government in these times goes into order to exempt the Civil Ombudsman's access to government documents. I would strongly warn against that, and I find it very disappointing that the former liberal Left Party, which sits with the Minister of Democracy himself, is bowing to the secret culture of the government. So I want to bring up the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e817	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e822	Thank you to the Council of State for a thorough, good and secure settlement. There is little doubt that freedom of expression and the media in general have very good conditions in Norway, and that we have a government council and a government that prioritises this high. It is also equally clear that we have had a large majority in the last two periods – with the Left as a driving force – that has led an active media and freedom of expression policy. The independent quality journalism is one of the pillars of a free, enlightened democracy with real freedom of expression, an arrow that is trodden in several ways: Economic: There are few, if any, industries that have experienced a greater drop in income than the media house has experienced what debt advertising revenue disappeared overnight and took the road to social media and search engines. Information field: The informative, critical, fact-based journalism is currently competing with an information universe of very different quality, which is almost day by day increasing in scope and complexity. Technology: In record time, we have changed media habits from linear TV to current services, from radio listening to podcasts, from paper newspapers to digital news channels, from written books to audiobooks. The loss of revenue and the other changes in conditions of competition have undoubtedly put enormous pressure on quality. A should not be back in time before words such as click journalism and fake news were forward words no one had understood the meaning of. I don't think many people had the imagination to believe that a phenomenon like Donald Trump could not only become president in the United States, but even almost the power to undermine democracy in the country many others have as ideal. Evolution has been formidable and is still going very fast. Great respect for the media industry in this way for how they have managed to develop their business models and partly to replace old revenues with new ways of making payments. The Size and Government tools on quality journalism are also fortunately many: the school must give future generations a completely necessary source-critical sense of life. One needs a strong, independent public broadcaster that always has revenues that allow them to systematically prioritize quality rather than issues that generate revenue and click, good support schemes, such as the production support scheme – or press support, as it is commonly called – and good conditions and support schemes for Norwegian music, Norwegian books and Norwegian audiobooks. State Council Raja also addressed this with the importance of close international tax havens so that Norwegian media can compete on an equal footing with social media and search engines that cynically exploit each tax bribe that exists, and last but not least: an active use of the tax system. When State Council Raja, on behalf of the government, takes the lead in the introduction of zero VAT on digital journalism, former depositor Raja knows that there is enough truth to it with strong modifications. Without the efforts of the Left in the previous period as an opposition party in the budget negotiations with the impending Right-front party government, we would probably have had low VAT on digital journalism today, not zero VAT. Deceptive government added to low-mums. The left had zero VAT as a central negotiating requirement and got through to it. We also got the then government not to parallel notify zero VAT and low VAT in ESA, which they wanted, which, after all, would end up with the notification of low VAT. In this way, those who are going to write history of Norwegian media policy can safely conclude that the Left played a rather decisive role in the fact that Norway today has zero VAT also in digital journalism. With this clarification Raja has every reason to boast about the media policy he and today's blue-green government lead. All those who are concerned that the country has a government that not only in words but also in systematic action prioritises good framework conditions for independent quality journalism, should be aware of its visit time in the elections to the autumn and contribute to the Left and Today's government's continued unmistakably important job.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e851	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Culture and Gender Equality for a good and thorough presentation of freedom of expression and media policy. As the Minister said in his statement, the media play an indispensable role in our society – a diversity of independent editor-driven media with important journalism from different social areas is essential for freedom of expression and for a well-functioning democracy. I am pleased that freedom of expression and freedom of the press are strong in Norway. At the same time, we also have challenges. Our free public conversation is threatened by fake news, by web roles that try to threaten people to silence, and by algorithms that create echo cameras. The media have also been in a major shift from paper to digital in recent years, while the global media company is constantly taking a larger share of the ad crowns. That is why I am pleased that we are following up the media support message and redistributing media support to small local media, which is very important for local democracy. Freedom of expression is not a single theme. Freedom of expression is both an objective in itself and an instrument for promoting the search for truth, democracy and the free formation of the individual, it is stated in the Constitution. Therefore, it is not the opinions that everyone agrees with, that need a protection – indifferences and of course things work out fine without. The expressions that need protection are the controversial, the provocative – the expressions that break with established truths. It's often these statements that can bring us forward to better insight and understanding, but at the same time it's also this type of expression that makes freedom of speech so difficult and sometimes so bad. Opinions and opinions that are not considered politically correct are under pressure. And opinions that are not necessarily in line with what the majority of society thinks are getting an increasingly narrower tolerance window both in public and in society in general. I can draw a personal example from a recent experience. At the end of April, SV decided to extend the self-determined abortion limit to week 22. We are saving children in week 23, and there have been great reactions and debates on this hair-removing liberalisation. In this context, I chose to share a picture of myself with my pregnant stomach in week 22, to make what we're actually talking about, that when we talk about weeks, we're not just talking about numbers, we're talking about over half a pregnancy, a nearly fully developed child who just needs to grow bigger – yes, we're talking about a well visible coal on the stomach. The image created a great deal of commitment – many divisions, but eventually also many critical and bombastic feedbacks that this picture was far above the line. Thus, in a debate on a non-parallel abortion – free abortion until week 22 – the picture of a pregnant stomach for week 22 appeared to be far too late. Think about it. Critics and journalist Anki Gerhardsen have also written about this in her commentary entitled ‘The Invisible Child’, which criticises the media for not printing the picture of the heart of the debate. She writes: ‘SV will have free abortion until the moment it tilts from the foetus to the baby. But never if they take the word "baby" in their mouths. And neither does the press. All journalists involved in abortion issues know that there are a number of unwritten rules on form and content: do not write ‘children’. Do not focus too much on foetal development. And never, never show a photo." No, the journalists who are usually on the weak side and who are usually not strangers to the use of illustrative images do not do so in the abortion debate. If we're going to be a country with a high ceiling to express public opinion, we can't lower the ceiling when the opinions and truths that people seem to be uncomfortable with. Here, like Gerhardsen, I believe that the Norwegian press has a major challenge to address. I would like to summarise it this way: freedom of expression is strong in Norway, but we also have challenges. We need a much larger tolerance window for opinions that are not necessarily politically correct, both in the media and in society in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e880	It was a bit polite that the representative Terje Breivik, with his consent, could use a higher voice than me to explain what the government has done, and not least what the Left's imprint on it is. It was very nice. As I was also involved in my presentation, reporters without borders publish an overview of the position of freedom of the press in different countries, and since 2017, Norway has been topping that list. We're the world's best country for press freedom five years in a row. I think that's all reason to be proud of that, while it's always going to be an important task to work to preserve and protect this freedom. The day of freedom of the press, which was marked on 3 May, is also a reminder to the authorities of all countries that they must protect and respect the independence of the press. It is a day to express support for journalists, editors and media who are subjected to pressure, restrictions, shivers, threats, violence and killing, and not least to commemorate journalists who have lost their lives in search of a cause. In many parts of the world, journalists are subjected to abuse and active attempts to prevent them from reporting freely. It is a serious threat to democracy. In 2020, 50 journalists were killed. Up to 2021, eight journalists are killed as a result of the job they do, and 417 are imprisoned. It's incredibly scary, even for Norwegian media, I think. I was on Nordic media yesterday talking to a medium also about it, that having the top position commits to responsibility. I know Norwegian media are busy with this. Many authorities work to promote freedom of expression globally, promoting human rights. So does Norway. Of course, the press as the fourth state power also has that responsibility. Hopefully, starting a global media movement to put the searchlight on those rulers who expose journalists to threats, sheikhs, violence and killings, I think, had been great. It's not without reason that journalists are often called, and call themselves, the fourth state power. Journalists and editors define their role as critics and monitors of society and official state powers. It's government powers that don't want democracy and an open public conversation. Nor do they value the free and independent vigilance. So let's do that here in Norway. There's a lot of reasons why we top that list. It is not primarily that we are not persecuting the journalists, but, among other things, that we are following them. because of the framework conditions with which we set up. There's, of course, one piece of this. But I think it's important to bring along what a lot of journalists around the world are facing in terms of their working conditions, and that democracy is under pressure. Here, too, in Norway, we know that many journalists, like politicians, academics, leaders of organisations and other social debaters, are increasingly exposed to threats, to violence, to harassment, especially online. Here we have put down a freedom of speech commission, such as shall address precisely the hazard signals on threats, network harassment and possible cooling and self-sensitisation. We have also asked the Commission to consider measures to ensure the safety of journalists, which are a prerequisite for the role of the media in society and the vigilance function. The Commission will also discuss how we can strengthen public vocabulary on digital platforms. I think it is good that it has been affected in this discussion, because the security of journalists is a fundamental prerequisite for the media to exercise their democratic function. Threats and harassment can lead to journalists knowingly — and perhaps even more unconsciously in free democracies — acting with self-esteem, both in terms of what they write about and in terms of how they report news. Norway shall continue to be a driver here. More attention has been paid to this in recent years, including the following: in the UN, the Council of Europe and the OSCE, on what can be done to improve the digital security of journalists. There is also evidence that female journalists are particularly vulnerable. They are not only exposed to the ordinary sheath and violence, to say the word, but they are also exposed to gender-related threats and gender-related harassment. These are things that there really is reason to take seriously. In particular, when Norway is the world’s best country of freedom of the press, it is important to remember that in many other countries there are completely different conditions for journalists. We must remember them on the day of freedom of the press next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e899	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e904	The councils spoke hotly for the goal of diversity in the media, and I think that's a goal he's sincerely engaged in. At the same time, we see that the main platform for diversity, namely diversity of ownership, is being challenged by the large groups. With the investments required in the media sector, linking to a group is quite tricked by a locality because a need for digitisation technology that can be costly for individual newspapers. At the same time, as I said in my main post, it's the owners who appoint the boards, and it's the boards who employ editors, and it's also an increasing degree of substance exchange that allows you to read exactly the same things in different Amedia newspapers and in different Schibsted newspapers. In the past, we had a media ownership law that could limit the purchase of this from a media perspective. Now only economic competition is at stake. How do the Councils of State view the possibility of ensuring media pluralism?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e909	For the government and fortunately, I think, also for the opposition, it is incredibly important to ensure a media diversity. It's both that we don't have these white geographical spots, and that we have a media diversity that allows you to go deep in journalism and deliver quality journalism. For us in the government, it is important that the local media be strengthened. They are important to local democracy. Local media play an important role in media pluralism, and there are no editor-directed media that follow local levels of government and power structures in society closely, this may lead to citizens missing substantial information on what is happening in the community. Of course, what the representative addresses is also worrying, but at the same time, there are some things we can do, as we do, but there is no doubt that we are very concerned about ensuring media pluralism in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e916	It was a very good answer on the importance of local authorities, but it was not a very good answer to the question of increased ownership concentration. We also have something called platform economy, which makes the big one dominating, because being big in itself attracts more customers. I hope that the Council of State in its daily work has a more active relationship with the media ownership diversity that we need. I have another question. The councils talked about being exposed to the heat, hate statements, etc., but also false news. We have the world's freest press, and those who write to the Editor's poster have also submitted to internal justice. But many have not joined this, and for individuals, as we saw in the ambulance driver case, lookups can be devastating. How does the Council of State view the need for this sector, too, with so much power, both regulated and non-regulated, to be responsible for things that they write and do? We've had a law on media responsibility. For example, does he see the need for a media representative in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e923	In my previous answer, in which the representative may not have captured the point, I said that we need both large and small media. Owner concentration may occur in some cases. My point is to make visible to us that it is nevertheless important that we have local media, although there are different types of ownership associated with this. Some of those things can be politically tried to rule, and some of those things may not even be politically desirable. I believe that we have already presented this in a previous communication on editorial responsibility and journalism. I think it's a little bit difficult to clarify that answer in this minute, but we could maybe get back to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e930	Many Norwegian media houses experience a tough everyday experience with the drought of advertising crowns, among others. in competition with international actors – which has been mentioned here earlier today. In general, there has been a tough development for newspapers and media houses over many years, among other things. as a result of fewer readers of paper newspapers. At the same time, we have a state channel, NRK, which receives 6.6 billion. kr a year from taxpayers, who are fully protected from the circumstances and realities of most media houses in Norway every day, and who are increasingly taking a more dominant role in new surfaces – such as networks, podcasts, etc., which are also important areas of activity for other struggling media houses. I wonder if the Council of State sees any distortion of competition or danger, that the NRK can have too much dominance and position in competition with other Norwegian media houses.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e935	First of all, during covid-19, it's true that some media have experienced a huge loss of income, and then some of those things have evened out more, so you can see that most people have done well. I don't remember accurate numbers, but I think I read something about that nine out of ten to that extent have gone with profits. We still set up a corona package for the media – and I think a little over 130 media got involved in that package – and used about. Ninety million. the budget to provide them with a financial framework. In the case of the NRK, I think the Advance Party has a completely different view of this than the government. The Government is concerned that the NRC should have a predictable financial framework. Therefore, the government also proposed in the Media Support Communication that the financial framework of the NRC should be decided for four years at a time. I believe that this message was presented while the Progress Party was also in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e942	It is often in celebrations that we show how strongly we must defend freedom of speech, freedom of the press and, quite simply, democracy. I and the Council of State have had many exciting rounds of this before. What I could imagine knowing a little bit more about is what the Council of State thinks Norway should use its role in the Security Council, the position in the United Nations, to be involved and to press forward better security for, among other things. journalists. It is also the case that today we have blasphemy legislation in many countries – in fact, we also have forces in our own country that want to introduce a new blasphemy legislation. Could the Council of State elaborate a little on how he thinks Norway can go ahead as a good example of just banning such things?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e949	It is important that the Minister of Foreign Affairs does, but on a general basis, I would say that Norway should, of course, continue to promote human rights on a broad basis. There, Norway has had very high international confidence and predictability in the issues we have addressed. This applies, inter alia, to: also, where the representative is concerned, freedom of expression, freedom of religion, women's rights and sexual and reproductive health, and not least the education of girls. There are many issues Norway has been concerned about, but there is no doubt that focusing on freedom of expression, human rights in general, is important. With regard to the blasphemy problem, I think we can agree here in Norway – I also agree with both politicians, councillors and private individuals – that God does not need protection, God and gods can take care of themselves. If we have legislation, we have it to protect people from human actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e956	The split ownership concentration is also concerned with the Centre Party, which the representative Giske was in. We're worried there. But my question is: Where in the world is the toolbox that will contain preparedness measures and tools for the media that can be launched at short notice to meet needs that need to be addressed? We're talking here about the toolbox that the media industry would want was in place when the pandemic hit us, the toolbox that a collective committee and a unanimous magnification ordered in connection with the media announcement, and that the minister's predecessor had a recording meeting about, the toolbox that I've called for once without getting any other than evasive answers from the government. Does the government ignore this order from Stortinget, since the minister did not say a single word about that toolbox in his statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e966	No, we don't avoid this at all. The representative and I have actually had an exchange of words about this earlier, in a question hour. I think I said that in proposals for media policy and governance signals for the four-year period 2023-2026, the Ministry of Culture will base the media surveillance investigations on media diversity accounts, other supervisory reports and assessments and other bodies in the evaluation of media policy instruments. As we also discussed at the time, some measures, such as temporary exemption from the employer’s fee for news and news media, were assessed in the media support message. The assessment was that there will be a costly and small targeted measure, but that if the economic situation of the media gets significantly worse, it will be appropriate to look at the proposal again. The Covid-19 pandemic illustrates that it is challenging to create tools before you know what tasks they will be used for. It is difficult to design non-performing instruments for a future scenario that is unknown. But of course I will follow up and come back to this when we are in the right time period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e975	Thank you to the Council of State for a good presentation. We know that publicity, transparency in power, is a premise for an open and enlightened public conversation. The right of access is part of the freedom of expression paragraph of our Constitution. That is why I wonder what the Council of State for Just Publicity and Democracy believes about the developments that we can determine have occurred in recent years, where security rating and denial of transparency for both the Storting and the press are increasingly being used in important critical debates. Most journalists are asked to confirm that transparency has been reduced in recent years. Is there a desirable development on the part of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e984	I hear the representative say something. I think it might be from his party. I don't think you can fix that kind of thing for a total accumulation anyway. The government practises and lives, of course, by both the administrative law and the public health law. That's one reason why for five consecutive years we're on top of freedom of the press. This is because both the government and the Stortinget as well as the Norwegian public practice more openness and transparency as far as possible in relation to the various possible security laws that apply. We can see it under this pandemic as well. More publicity has been practised, with press conferences, daily questions and answers, being fully accessible and transparent. It's clear that during the pandemic, we've learned that sometimes it's taken a little bit more time, but it's because, I think, it's more work definitely everybody's been inside. We have tried to follow both the Public and Administrative Act in the best possible way, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e993	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1000	Freedom of expression is a fundamental, individual right and is essential for the development of society, the rule of law and democracy. The media are an indispensable part of the infrastructure to be around freedom of expression. In a complex media world, it is important that we can distinguish opinions from facts, between editorial and commercial content, not least in order to be able to reveal false news. That's what I want to talk about here. False news or fake news, which we heard from the United States, and conspiracy theories flourish on digital and non-editor-driven platforms. Troll factories spread false news in order to influence and destabilise communities and not least influence choices. There is one thing that can solve part of this, and there is cross-border cooperation to find solutions to disinformation and not least to tax, among other things. Google and Facebook, which are mentioned here. The EU is working on this. And let me mention a few initiatives within the EU, which are linked to combating false news. They have created an action plan to meet disinformation, a ‘action plan to step up efforts to counter disinformation’. These include: explicit cooperation and not least pressure on social media. Another area that was addressed by the EU was how to work actively to identify disinformation actors. Both academia and bureaucrats in the EU have worked together to create The European Digital Media Observatory, EDMO. They started their work last year. The information and misleading dissemination of information is and will always be a challenge. We see it not least under the pandemic, where we are also extremely vulnerable to, not least, communications that intend to undermine the authorities' message. We now see that social media is starting to take the facts seriously. We've followed up on Facebook and Twitter after the U.S. presidential election now flagging posts. We also see that this has had consequences for the outgoing President. The right considers that the way out is internationally committed cooperation. Close cooperation with the EU will strengthen efforts to combat false news and tax actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1019	Some time back, several of the members of the News Museum Committee, Newseum, were in Washington. Of course, it made a very strong impression on many of us, I think, precisely because you saw how both freedom of speech and freedom of the press are under strong pressure in the world community. You like to draw out Norway, as we do here in the pulpit today, as one of the best in the class. But I remember very well the biscuit I had in my mouth just because of it. Because we're not going so far back in history, when we had a foreign minister, Jonas Gahr Støre, who produced the editor Vebjørn Selbeck as an extremist in international media because he published cartoons. It was a sad day for the whole nation of Norway, for everything we believe in, and everything we are, and I hope that we never again see a minister facing just an extremist ideology, I would say. It's to give in, it's not to stand up for democracy and who we are, and what kind of values our country is based on. That's why I thought it was good that the Council of State, Abid Raja, was at least today quite clear about what he thinks about regulation in terms of blasphemy, which there are also forces working for in Norway. Think that teachers in today's Europe can risk abstinence because they teach fundamental freedoms and rights! We're not going to have to pay more than a year back before Samuel Paty last year with the absolute greatest sacrifice, actually the very life, and this because he taught about the caricatures of a prophet. Many ran and hid in that debate too, but fortunately there was a rather strong international society, both by editors, journalists and politicians, who dared to stand their backs in that debate. That's what I expect us to do in the time that's coming. Then I record the state council pulling out Koran burning against violent demonstrations against SIAN. I would also like to stress that this was an attack on the police and those who defend our freedoms, and order. I think it's a little bit sought-after context to set this up against each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1030	I was inspired by the contribution of the representative, Örmen Johnsen, to draw me again, because – as my own contribution also had the mark – I am very committed to the challenges we have with alternative media that do not follow ethical guidelines, which spread disinformation and false news. In the extension of what Silje Hemdal said, I was also at the Newseum in Washington, and there we met the slug who has been sitting first in the United States Today, a commercial newspaper, every year. He was chairman of the museum, and he said something I bit me very notice, namely that throughout his life he had fought against press support because it was a threat to the independent press, but because of alternative media, how the polarized society, and how people just lost more and more confidence in the serious media with ethical demands, he was for the first time for. He was very concerned before the coming election, and he was right. In view of that, as there has been a lot of talk both in the presentation and in the debate here today, I think that we are on the right track. At least we want politicians to deal with that problem. And then I insist – when I have 1 minute and 20 seconds left – to take up something I had decided to take up in an interview, but that I have chosen not to do because we have so much to do in the day. This is just that – and now I look at the Minister: in the Freedom of Speech Commission, I wonder if it might be appropriate to consider measures for those who need a vote to tell about additional, controversial opinions, such as: The representative Lossius pointed to, or the right-hand side, which is a little bit extreme. How can we ensure that they can have a voice without helping to downgrade the confidence of the editor-driven media? Then I wonder, what incentives can we make for a little bit more sublime media to express that kind of opinion? That's an open question, but is that possible? I'm frustrated by that, for example. Human Rights Service, which is taken into account in factual errors, is supported, while there may be other bodies that had deserved support because they relate to ethical guidelines instead. It was today's small drink from the pulpit – thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1041	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1060	The Korona Commission notes that children and young people bear a heavy burden under the pandemic. The Commission considers that there is a risk of long-term consequences. Although we have managed to keep society more open than in many other countries, the pandemic has had its price. This is particularly true for children and young people in vulnerable situations. Among other things, we see: an increase in young people referred to specialist health services and in particular eating disorders and suspicion of depression. The report focuses on many parts of children and young people’s growth. Among other things, it is pointed out that several important services fell completely or partially in the spring of 2020. Nearly one third of child protection services had fewer meetings with children than usual, as late as November 2020. There has been a growing movement towards various telephone and chat services around the issues of care failure, violence and assault during the coronary epidemic. Figures from the Police Directorate show an increase both in reported sexual offences against children and in cases of abuse in close relations with children under 16. We have also seen that the reduction in recreational services and schooling particularly affects children with parents who are already struggling. Reports from the Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate point this out. During the whole corona epidemic, the government has given priority to children and young people. A great deal of effort is already being made for children and young people through a number of key messages, action plans and strategies. And I ask, how will the Council of State coordinate these measures against the various departments and municipalities? The government has also set up an expert group to look at the consequences of the pandemic for mental health. The sample report states that the pandemic has led to a reduction in the quality of life for most. A minority, especially groups who were already exposed, have experienced significant increases in mental health disorders. Children and young people in vulnerable care situations are at risk, and there is also an increase in the use of alcohol among those with the highest previous consumption. How will the Council of State follow up the actions of the expert group? The government set up an early coordination group to provide an overall knowledge base on the consequences of the measures taken to protect the disease. What happens to children and young people? The coordination group has produced quite a number of reports, and in the latest report there are three recommendations for the government. They recommend, among other things: giving priority to young people’s needs for leisure venues and meeting places in social opening plans. They also ask the government to assess joint mandates to the Directorates for Cooperation on measures to address the consequences of the pandemic for young people. What will the Council of State do to coordinate and reinforce the efforts of children and young people in vulnerable families, and how will the Council of State use the lessons learned from the reports in the best possible way and give priority to the actions of families to get out of the crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1083	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for addressing very important questions. Ever since the pandemic broke out in March last year, my main concern has been how children and young people are doing, and especially those who already had it difficult at home, and who got it even more difficult when society shut down. Our goal has been, precisely in the interests of the most vulnerable, to protect children and young people as far as possible from the infectious diseases and to provide measures to ensure good help to those who need it. On behalf of the Corona Commission, NTNU has conducted a study: the impact of covid-19 on the provision of services among vulnerable children and young people. Although it is currently not possible to conclude from the consequences, the report shows that reduced provision of services and activities for children and young people may have contributed to less detection of violence and abuse. The NKVTS report from the first shut-down showed that one in six reported at least one type of violence or assault during the eight weeks of school closure. 20 pst. of these experienced mental or physical violence for the first time during the closure, and many were exposed to net crime for the first time. Girls were more vulnerable than boys. The numbers give cause for concern. In order to learn more about how over a year of uncertainty and closure has affected the scale and vulnerability of violence and abuse, this study will also be repeated this year. But based on what we know, the government will already, in the context of the revision, reinforce its efforts to combat violence and abuse against children. The government has stressed the need for child protection to be available to the young people who need the most help. Child protection was quickly categorised as a societally critical service. The capacity of childcare services has been relatively stable throughout the pandemic. State administrators have followed up the services and reported few significant deviations. In March and April last year, when schools and kindergartens were closed down, we saw a decline in anxiety messages, and this led, among other things, to a reduction in the number of schools and kindergartens. that we also strengthened the alarm phone, so that it was easier for children to contact the auxiliary device. The level of concern reports stabilised before the summer of last year at about the same level as in previous years. We've recently seen an indication that the number is increasing something. This may indicate that child protection captures the effects of the pandemic on some children and young people. We will continue to monitor the situation and capacity of services closely, because good capacity in the provision of services to vulnerable children and young people has also been an important background in strengthening the local economy during the pandemic. Much home schooling and reduced leisure provision have also affected children and young people living in institutions, and those working there. A worrying development has been observed, including: related to drugs and to crime. The government will therefore provide measures in the RNB to help ensure good assistance for children and young people in institutions, and a good framework for the employees working there. The government set up an early coordination group which, across sectors, has followed the overall provision of services to vulnerable children and young people under the pandemic and has made its assessments and recommendations to the ministries through regular reporting. There has been close and good cooperation between both the Directorates and the Departments, where relevant issues have been discussed and addressed across sectors. I will continue to coordinate this cross-cutting work with vulnerable children and young people and work in the departments with the framework for good and cross-sectoral work in the future. In this work, it is important to include the experience we have gained during the pandemic, along with other work, such as: 0 to 24 cooperation. The government has been working regularly and focused on protecting vulnerable children and young people under the pandemic. In addition to close cooperation between the Directorates, there has also been good cooperation between the Departments. That cooperation is important, and of course we will continue with it. Throughout the pandemic, state administrators have had close dialogue with municipalities on the follow-up of municipal services. Resources are allocated to maintain and strengthen the provision of services in both municipal and specialist health services. In 2021, coronants were granted to the local government sector in nearly 16 billion. NOK, and last year it was granted about 18 billion. kr. In 2020, governments promoted more crisis packages to help vulnerable groups, and efforts are also strengthened in 2021. As late as February, further action came for children and young people and for students, and everything will help to strengthen efforts for vulnerable groups under the coronary apathy. This includes, inter alia: funds for new and extended summer school provision for primary school students to help re-establish lost progress, social lowthreshold provision for students, equipment centres and children’s and youth psychiatry. In the revision, we will also have a package of nearly 300 million. to ensure that one should resume lost progress in school, which we know will be absolutely essential for one to secure the school that is important. In the reopening of society, children and young people will be given priority first, but even with vaccines and reopening, we know that some will have the challenge for a long time to come. There may be a need for increased effort over a long time, maybe years, because the pandemic hits some extra hard. Even before the pandemic, a great deal of effort was made for children and young people through a series of key messages, action plans and strategies covering the areas covered by the inter-pellant. The pandemic may have contributed to the strengthening of the challenge picture and these plans and messages are therefore still the most relevant. In following up these, we need to learn from the experience from the pandemic and take into account the consequences of it. The government will also present both a new action plan on violence in close relations, before the summer, and a separate strategy on Internet-related abuse. Measures that help more children and young people to participate in leisure activities are important to combat increased social exclusion as a result of the pandemic. The government's bet on the leisure card is one of several instruments to contribute to this. National grant scheme to include children and young people in holiday and leisure activities has been reinforced by around 260 million. kr since 2014 and it is estimated that more than 50000 children from low-income families will be reached through the scheme today. The effort aimed at children and young people growing up in low-income families is a high priority of the government, and last year we presented a cooperation strategy to promote participation and strengthen the opportunities for children in low-income families. Following up the strategy, the need for new and reinforced measures to combat low income exclusion will be assessed both in the short and long term. The government is assessing the long-term consequences of the pandemic and the measures to protect children and young people and other vulnerable groups. We will follow developments closely in the future and consider measures to minimise long-term impacts. In the revised national budget, we will already provide important and targeted measures for vulnerable groups in general and vulnerable children and young people in particular. And we will keep the Storting updated on the need for increased effort over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1121	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am not in doubt that it does very much. My concern is actually how to manage to build all these good measures around the individual child. How to discover children who have actually lost progress, who are no longer allowed to participate in leisure activities because they are not able to follow up, that is. children falling outside? Of course, it's about the municipalities. Now we're here at Stortinget, and we can't control the municipalities as such, but the children are out in the municipalities, and it's very different how the municipalities handle this. If the Council of State has some thoughts about how to coordinate all these good measures in the municipalities, make sure that the municipalities actually apply to the schemes in question, including: funds for summer schools, etc.? I'm also worried about this with lost progress. Because when it comes to digital education at home, some people say they have very good use of it – some have said it; it shows surveys – but a lot of people fall from it. Although this is not within the constitutional sphere of the Council of State, it is a matter of simply having to catch up with these children in a way. We have the school, but maybe they also fall out of leisure activities etc. It goes on coordination, catching up, making sure that all the good actions, the big messages and the action plans we have actually reach the individual who needs it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1132	I share the representative's concern for those kids who have had a more difficult time in the last year, and the view on the importance of building up services around the individual child. It has been absolutely essential for the government to have a good cooperation with the municipalities. As I was in my post, it was allocated approx. 34 B.C.E. Last year and this year to enable the local economy to have a good service offer and compensatory measures for the children for whom it is particularly concerned. We've been giving priority to children and young people all the time, and we've had good dialogue with the municipalities about that too. I would like to say in this room that there are so many municipalities that have made a great effort to protect them, but also to have their own measures to ensure that they get those services. I think the representative is quite right that building up the services around the individual child, that one sees that many of them have complex challenges, and that they get the needs covered, becomes very important. As for the coordinating work, I will continue to lead it. I think the work that has been done across the boards is very important, where one gets one up the different issues, sits and works together and lights it up from different sides, and that the same work is also between departments. Of course, each department must be responsible for the actions in its sector, but one must be able to cooperate well at the same time. That coordination group has just produced a new report and will continue to follow the situation even when, hopefully, we are now able to open up society more and more. In that phase, it is important to me, as Minister of Children, that we continue to work with those who have had a difficult time in the last year. As I said, even though the last vaccine has been set, although the measures of infection are easier and very many people can recognize freedom again, we know that there are many people who are going to be hanging after. Then the measures to recover the loss of progress at school are very important. We know that there are many people who may have lost their education, and they will have toil, and then it is absolutely vital that the municipalities apply for these funds. It is the Minister of Knowledge who is responsible for that scheme, but I can promise the representative that this is a topic that also concerns me, because to succeed with a difficult starting point, we know that school is a key factor. That is why we are very close to the state administrators and municipalities that they must also apply to these types of schemes and not least give priority to measures for children and young people. I also think it will be a work that will go on for a long time. As I announced, there will be more measures now in the revised national budget for the current year, but there will also be a need for longer-term measures, perhaps years, because some of these kids will have major challenges that will not only be solved in a short time, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1145	First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Örmen Johnsen, who has raised this issue – but not just this issue with regard to children, I would like to pay tribute to Mr. Örmen Johnsen for raising issues related to her own government's policy regarding vulnerable children. The representative has done that several times, including in other cases. I think that's very good, and it says respect. I feel that we have had concerns long before we had a crisis. As very many have said, and which has been repeated from this pulpit almost to the boring, the crisis is a magnifying glass of the way it was before. I think the government has done a good job in dealing with the crisis. I think it is very good that child protection personnel became part of the emergency response. I think it is good that they have started these follow-up reports, from which they are now getting knowledge. It is also good to hear the Minister say that they should give priority to children and young people first. My concern is that the government in total is pursuing a policy that is not good for the vulnerable children. Research shows that social inequalities in health affect the most vulnerable. What we see with this government's basic policy is that the 10 pst. The richest gets more, while the 10 pst. The purchasing power of the poor is reduced. In those families, there's a child. In those families there are children who have to pay a higher price for kindergarten and SFO, and some then go to the step of taking the children out of both kindergarten and SFO. It's not good for the vulnerable children. We see the same thing in the area of child protection, where users – i.e. children, child protection organisations and user organisations – have asked for more earmarked jobs in I think all the budgets I have been on since I joined the family and cultural committee, and have not been heard. There is policy — or lack of policy — for vulnerable children 365 days a year. That is what I would call petty cuts that this government has imposed on families with bad advice, for example. cut in the spectacle stand, physiotherapy for adult parents with serious injuries, for which they now have to pay for themselves. It is a comprehensive policy that affects all, the weakest families, and thus affects the children. What is my second concern is that even after the crisis, the government will come up with an ad hoc solution to this problem. I share very much the problem description that the representative Örmen Johnsen travels to get a complete device on the measures. The practice up to now has not been very holistic. Instead of dealing with the basic issues when families lack money for food, such as strengthening Community schemes, such as making kindergartens reasonable and SFO free, for example, the government introduces mechanisms that affect them through, for example: tax. It's just to understand that one can't solve these big challenges of giving more money to the summer vacation for the children, as the representative Ørmen Johnsen was about, when they can't afford anything for the rest of the year. It is not good for children to pursue policies that address only the problems of burning and that do not strengthen the basic framework and policy areas for children. I've been talking to Nav and Child Protection in Agder. They say there are more serious issues in child protection now, and on Nav, the small children's families are struggling the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1160	The pandemic that hit us a little over a year ago has turned our lives upside down. For us in this committee, the consequences of the pandemic for children and young people in vulnerable situations and the measures we can take to remedy them have been strongly focused. It also shows this interpellation, so I would also like to thank Mr. Örmen Johnsen for putting an important topic on the agenda. I would also like to thank the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, who has a strong commitment to these children and young people, which he has shown and continues to show through action. In the early years, a coordination group was set up to work on the consequences of the pandemic for children and young people, and especially for those who were already in a vulnerable situation. The group has continuously revealed where the shoe has pressed in the municipalities, and they have worked to ensure that these challenges are solved along the way. For the Christian People's Party, it's important to cultivate the family community, that the family be a safe place to grow up and develop, and we, as politicians, should facilitate this as best we can. At the same time, we know that the pandemic has been tough for many families, with parents who have been outsourced, or who have ended up at home offices for a long time, while running home school and kindergarten, and perhaps in a bit too crowded an apartment. The vulnerable families have become even more vulnerable, and unfortunately, we know that many of the children who had had it tough before have had a worse situation in the last year. Yes, for those children whose daily activities include kindergarten, school, leisure activities and maximum time away from home are the very rescue, the situation has been unsustainable. I had a meeting with the Stine Sofie Foundation a few weeks ago, and they could tell me that there were more serious cases of violence and assault than before. This is something the Children's Ombudsman has also pointed out. It makes so incredibly bad to hear, but it's very necessary that we take this in. Violence and child abuse are a serious social and public health problem. I am very pleased that this is something that the government takes very seriously, and that in 2021 it was also decided to significantly strengthen the escalation plan against violence and assault, so that the overall bet on the escalation plan would be about 1.1 billion. kr in the current year. That's good, but let's be clear: we have to do even more to combat violence and abuse against children in the time that comes, especially when we know that this has probably escalated in the last year. The government has also been busy during this period to make it easier to get in touch with the help without having to leave home. It's been important to always meet an open door, despite the temporal shut-down of society. This is why we have contributed to the setting up of helplines for parents and the use of support tools in municipalities to facilitate the detection and follow-up of vulnerable children. We have also provided funds for the alarm phone for children and young people to maintain a 24-hour telephone and chat service, as there has been a marked increase in the number of calls to the alarm phone. In this year's budget, the Christian People's Party also received funding from TalkOmPsyken, a telephone and chat service directed by Blue Cross, where children and young people can talk to professional professionals about the difficult things they experience in their lives. Yes, by February at the latest, the Stortinget decided to grant 100 million. For children’s and young people’s psychiatry. We have to bear in mind that even though most children and young people are adaptive and robust, we should not underestimate the consequences of having to wait a lot in a young life, whether it's leisure activities, new social relationships or just dreams. We must remember that a long year is extra long in a young life. Speaking of leisure activities, we have not yet seen the consequences of longer periods without training and exercises, whether this is demotivating or motivating for the children, and whether they resume activities or not when everything goes back to normal. We'll probably see the need for new recruitment and to strengthen child and youth freedom in the coming days. I am pleased that, through this pandemic, it has been quite clear that the concern for children and young people is so high, and will also clarify the importance of their need to be given priority first in the continuation of the process of gradually reopening society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1179	In connection with this good interpellation debate dealing with vulnerable children, I would like to take the opportunity to focus on an important matter. Since 2016, Fäder municipality in Vestfold has participated in a project initiated by the government, where child protection – and with that municipality – takes over some government tasks. I have had the pleasure of following the project in which Fäder participates, and I have seen the good results that it produces. Among other things, the number of daily children has been placed in the institution, decreased by 50 pst. As I understand it, the Child Protection Act does not put any obstacles to continuing these projects, and the results for Fathers are only positive, to the best of the children, families and society. This division of tasks model is probably not as appropriate for all the municipalities of the country, but for the municipalities of compact and populous Vestfold, more people are looking at this way of organising child protection services. The Working Party has presented a quality reform for the protection of children, where there is more multidisciplinary nature and the low-threshold measures are central. There is some project at Fäder that makes a very good impression, given that it is precisely to keep the decisions close to the services. It provides a good low-threshold service and proves to be the best care for vulnerable children. In other words, I will now actually boast to the government of having started a forward-looking project. I would like to challenge the Council of State on what thoughts he has about this project, and if it is now the will of the government to continue it, make it permanent for the municipalities that have the opportunity to do so. On behalf of children, families and employees in the municipality of Fäder, I hope that the Council of State can make a positive attitude towards the continuation of this good possibility for the operation of the Child Protection Service.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1188	Thank you to the interpellant who mentioned something that of course has engaged here, but also in the municipalities and not least in the families involved. There have been some alarming reports that address perhaps the most vulnerable to society, precisely the fact that those who do not have a voice or at least the ability to decide for themselves live under strict restrictions and all that it may entail. I still think we should problem it a little bit, because I think it's a little strange that at that time, even though a pandemic is extra demanding, you can detect so many cases of failure and betrayal of children. I find it hard to believe that these are children you have not known about from before. The experience shows that many have had reasons to believe or have been very aware that some of these children have not been able to do so. I think it's primarily a reminder to us, of course as politicians, but also as fellow people, that you have a responsibility to report from and deal with things when you're worried about children, regardless of whether it's a normal everyday life or a pandemic. What the long-term consequences of this are for children and young people is impossible to say too much concrete about now, but we know that like all other people you will be impressed by it. However, we see that there are some things that are protruding. Among other things, children and young people who have already been subject to strong social control in extreme settings — or, to put it bluntly: in families with a different cultural background than necessarily the Norwegian one — have had it even tougher. It's not something you just see in Norway. It's also seen internationally. Child marriage has exploded internationally. Fortunately, we have now – a little late, but at least now – received a proposal for intensifications in this legal field here in Norway, too, after the Progress Party has pressed sometimes. Just this shows the importance of having a comprehensive and clear policy all the time and that you stand up for the values you have, because it's just in crisis and pandemics that are being pressured. That is why I hope that those who are going to look at this with regard to the legal certainty of children against, among other things. new child protection law — if not necessarily this sample, but also others — makes a specific assessment of how the legal certainty of children has been ensured in this respect. I think it would have been interesting to know more about that. I've had more desperate parents on the line. Some call because their child has not received the necessary help that they need at school, others about children who like to have a little longer childhood than us, who have been exposed to what I would call gross human rights violations by having been refused visits to their own homes, typical retarded developmentals who have known more about this in a crisis. I had a meeting with ROS in Bergen about how young people report a dramatic increase in problems related to eating denial and eating disorders. The fathers have been refused to have their children visit during a deposit of covid-19, which fortunately was cleaned up. As far as the Stine Sofie Foundation and post-protection are concerned, fortunately the Progress Party received some money into the budget. Here's a lot that needs to be taken care of, and that needs to be seen in the long term and not just under a pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1199	I also want to take the opportunity to praise the interpellant to address an important question. In the interpellation there is a fine self-recognition, I believe, from a representative of a government party, and it is nice that you can say right as a politician that you haven't succeeded, you haven't done enough. Because it is improper that there is a long way between the speeches that politicians have made, the promises that have been made about follow-up through the pandemic and how things should be despite the rules of infection and the lack of social intercourse, and how reality is experienced for people out there. After a year of pandemic, we can all say that it's the kids who've taken the biggest noise. First, one year in a young person's life is quite a long time, and a year without football training, a year without body training, a year without social intercourse with your friends out in the playground and on the street is a long and lost year. A year with a lot of home school and a lack of social skills through school, and not least a lack of physical follow-up from the teacher, does a lot in a young life. We know that the kids who were out of control are struggling more, and a lot of kids and young people who aren't even before the pandemic are struggling now. It's serious. It is also the case that for the most vulnerable, those who have already lived in homes with a lack of – say – good care, such as. Lives in a everyday life with violence, physical or mental, and assault, so this year has been totally too damned. All those who are subjected to social control, and those who somehow experience some form of care failure, and who before in the open society at least had someone to talk to or hoped to be seen by someone, have now been left to themselves. The magnification of the corona apandemia puts on the increased differences in our society, but also the groups that were most vulnerable from before, is something we have to look at more closely. It's also so that it's been easier for someone than for others to get through this year. It's not like most kids experience being able to build a snowman in grandmother's garden. For most young people, e.g. in the major cities, there is a lack of capacity to expand that has left them under the pandemic. It's crowded for many, literally and in transferred meaning. The government has not done enough to protect and follow up these vulnerable kids. We haven't done enough to strengthen child protection through this difficult time, where they've asked for extra resources to be there more and more. Not enough has been done to try to keep the important leisure activities for children and young people, as well as schools and kindergartens, open through the crisis. Nor have you done enough, before or under the pandemic, to provide low-threshold mental health assistance. You just have to admit that. It's terrible to hear all those kids who have extra needs. They call and they send letters, and it's heartwarming to hear them tell how the help, relief, etc. from one day to another was taken from them when the pandemic came. This is in stark contrast to what the Minister of Children and other politicians from the government side have been saying all the way, that the municipalities are responsible for and follow up and give people what they should have. That's not the case. We had needed a real crisis package aimed at children and young people, where the most vulnerable of them were seen. Those are the ones who have suffered more from the pandemic than the rest of us. The government now has to take over the fact that you didn't do enough, you didn't manage to take care of our kids. I expect an intensified effort to take away the aftereffects that many children and young people are going to live with after the pandemic. We must learn lessons, but political action must also be taken. I expect a crisis package to remedy the consequences of the crisis. Because now it's got to be the kids' turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1215	First, I would like to thank you for a very good debate. I think what we might agree on here is that the service needs to build up among the individual children, that it is important to coordinate all the measures we have. That is why I am at least pleased that our Minister for Children and Family Affairs says that he will coordinate the cooperation between the Directorates and the Departments so that we can have coordinated cooperation. The representative Henriksen talked about strengthening the basic framework and about this with Difference Norway increasing. I'm not going to raise that debate right now, but child-responsiveness is an example of that. I want to mention something that we didn't bring up here, that's the inclusion virtue. There are a lot of newcomers, and we know that their children might be the ones who need the most support and the most help, so at least I want to encourage the council to look at it. The Children’s Protection Act has been mentioned here – how to follow it up. It is under consideration in the Committee now, and I am very concerned that we should make the municipalities cooperate cross-sectorally in coordinating their efforts against the individual child. We have also visited municipalities, which is what we can call ‘best practice’ and, as the representative of Aasen-Svensrud, I hope they will continue their work. Negative social control was also a theme here. The community is closed, the arenas are gone, and the recreational activities – as the Trettebergstuen mentioned – that give breathing space to everyone are shut down. It's worrying. Now we also have the head of infectious diseases, councillor Höie, here – without him being involved in this interpellation. At least it's important to keep this in mind. For this reason, I would also like to ask how the Department will follow up the actions of the Kjøs Committee on Mental Health in children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1226	I would also like to thank you for a good debate. I feel that we agree that there are great challenges from before, and that many of those who have had a hard time are especially those who had it difficult from before, but also that if we're going to be able to solve the challenges, there are many of the structural measures that are, in a way, the normal inputs, which are absolutely central. They need to be reinforced, because there are more, and there are a lot of those who have had it even more demanding, whether there are more people who have mental ill health, or there are violence and abuse or other challenges. It shows the importance of the ordinary services, that it is important to keep them up, and not, for example. re-prioritising important health care providers to do work other than to be there for young people who are struggling. To Anette Trettebergstuen: I think the municipalities have done a great job around. Yes, there have been repriorities, and yes, there are families that are very tired that have not received the help and relief they should have, but they have made a huge effort. That's one of the areas we're going to look at when we're going to present revised national budgets for the week. If we also see the importance of the families, this pandemic has really underlined it. Very many of the families who are strong, have good relations and have had it safely and well, say that yes, they may have gotten bored, it's been a demanding year, but they've done well. Those who had a difficult starting point are those who have also had that tough party in the last year. It also shows the importance of long-term efforts to prevent, support and help parents, whether through child protection or through other services, in order to succeed and to be good parents. I would also like to briefly mention the international picture. Take Denmark, which is perhaps one of the countries most comparable to Norway. The fifth grade was not at the school until Christmas until after Easter, and after Easter they were allowed to start up every other day. I want to give a big tribute to the work that has been done around the country to keep the schools up, to make sure they meet safe adults, and that they get the best possible education. I totally disagree with the reality that Kari Henriksen is drawing. First of all, the kindergartens are cheaper for those who have low income, it's even free core time, so what's said is completely wrong. If there is something government has prioritised, efforts are being made towards the very poorest, such as raising child benefit by over $8,000, which means a huge amount to them, the national grant scheme, which has increased by $260 million. kr, and that we have strengthened child protection these years. It's been a 30 pst. increase from 2013 to 2019. It's extremely important. In the case of the representative Aasen-Svensrud, who brought up the municipality: there is an answer that I am not completely given now, but the Test Act limits how long you can continue a test. We are looking at a transitional arrangement. It is a fantastic work that has been done, and some of it also underlines the importance of the child protection reform, which comes into force from the New Year, where municipalities must have even more preventive responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1241	The debate on substance is then closed. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1257	At the request of the Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1264	After all, this last year has had a lot of different consequences of the covid-19 pandemic. Now we're going to deal with a matter of preparedness for this kind of crisis. The centre batch has submitted a proposal in four points which, in total, are concerned with ensuring national preparedness and the production of vector equipment. So we're not talking about vaccines, we're talking about infectious devices. One proposal is that the government should engage in dialogue with potential Norwegian producers. Then the proposers want investment grants to be made available to Norwegian producers. It also wants national production to be concentrated in tendering processes and calls for emergency arrangements to be established with Norwegian production environments. The sum of that is that the proposers believe that if we get a better Norwegian production of this, it will be very important for emergency reasons. This is what the proposers argue. The Committee is all in agreement that we have faced a very serious crisis, and at the beginning of the crisis some uncertainty was created as to whether Norway was sufficiently prepared to deal with this type of crisis. The Committee does not necessarily fully agree with this proposal, but with the three red-green parties plus the Progress Party, there is actually a majority in favour of including these four proposals. I can really only leave it to the proposers themselves to elaborate the proposal and the corresponding to the government parties to justify why they do not want to support it. With that, I just have to be allowed to thank the Committee for good and tidy cooperation. It hasn't been a very demanding job, this, but an important thing is it definitely.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1281	The working party is committed to strengthening Norwegian pandemic preparedness and ensuring access to infectious protection equipment and medicinal products. The pandemic has been one of the events that trade union directorates have been warning against for a long time. When the Stortinge addressed the social security message earlier this year, the topic of health preparedness was discussed in depth. At that time, a majority of proposals were made on infectious diseases and pandemic preparedness, among others. to increase production capacity and access to infectious disease protection equipment. There was a majority to strengthen Norwegian emergency production and preparedness for important medicinal products and equipment to ensure that Norway is provided with a minimum of three months’ consumption of essential medicinal products and that Norway has access to production capacity for critical medical devices. The proposals that are being put forward in this matter today are in line with the majority in the Grand Duchy, against the votes of the government, said at the time, and the Labour Party will support them. Since the examination of the societal safety message, the Corona Commission has presented its conclusions. The Commission points out and concludes that although pandemic has been mentioned in the emergency reports as one of the most likely preparedness events, and that in 2019 the Social Security and Preparedness Directorate pointed to pandemics and drug shortages as the two most serious incidents that could affect Norway, Norway was not prepared. They point to serious failures in the preparation of pandemics, including: on outdated plans and that the national contingency plan for pandemic influenza had not been updated since 2014. They point out that there was a lack of a plank that provided for the use of interventional measures, and they point to the lack of infective equipment. The Commission writes: ‘The government knew that it was very likely that it would be difficult to obtain infectious disease protection equipment.’ Furthermore, they wrote that because it was not seized, it was ‘all spring 2020 [...] marked by major equipment shortages, in particular in the municipal health service, but also in the specialist health service’. The Commission is of the opinion that the rationale of infectious disease control equipment has probably led to infection which could have been avoided. They also point out that there has been a lack of clarity as to where the responsibility for the distribution of infectious diseases equipment lies. This shows that it is necessary to step up the work on both medicinal products and anti-infection equipment and to ensure increased production capacity and increased access to infectious agents and medicinal products. The pandemic and the lack of drug preparedness are still the two most likely to affect Norway, with major consequences. That's why we have to be better prepared the next time a pandemic can occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1302	The Covid-19 pandemic has revealed vulnerabilities related to security of supply and the value chains of key health service inputs, including infectious agents — which have been a source of both Norway and our European colleagues. This is a recognition that has been a sign of the greatest seriousness and worked with throughout the pandemic, and that we will largely focus on also in the future to meet new pandemics in the best possible way. The opposition points out that the government parties do not support the proposals in this proposal, and the Central Party in particular gives the impression that they are closest to the only party that focuses on the protection of infectious diseases. The fact is that the government has for the longest time started the work that the Central Party is considering in its proposals. This has been conveyed in the context of both the social security message and other debates in this room – the last time in the debate on the report by the Corona Commission on Tuesday. Due to the global and national shortage of medical devices, including infective equipment, a temporary national scheme was established on 6 March 2020 in which Hospital Purchases HF was given responsibility for purchasing infectious devices and medicinal products for both the municipal health and care services and the specialist health services. There is now, during the establishment of a national protection equipment stand-by with a target of a six-month consumption with a reproducibility rate of 1.1. In addition, solid stocks have been built in municipalities and health businesses. The availability of infectious disease protection equipment today is relatively good. The Health Directorate has already been entrusted with the permanent organisation of storage and security of supply of infectious diseases equipment. The Directorate shall submit proposals for the possibility of cooperation in procurement, national production and production agreements and the appropriate relationships between them. They shall assess synergies by cooperating with other sectors and assess how national preparedness can be managed in a way that also provides synergies to Nordic and European cooperation. The Directorate shall assess the feasibility and limitations of current legislation and assess the need for an entity responsible for monitoring, evaluating and adapting the content and level of stocks and other arrangements as appropriate. The points of learning from the Corona Commission's report will of course be highlighted in this work. The government has announced that they will make proposals for a permanent mechanism for the storage and preparedness of infectious disease protection equipment in the State budget for 2022. Once again, the Center Party and the rest of the opposition open doors.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1327	Sometimes it's as far as possible to turn open doors, but it's right as the last speaker says, this is actually turning open doors. These proposals have been examined both by the Committee and by the European Parliament in the context of the Communication on social security, both through comments and in concrete proposals. So this is really just repeating what is, to that extent, right and important and which the Progress Party chooses to support. But that's not because we haven't adopted it before. It's so good that the Center Party wants to highlight its clarity and make sure that we adopt it several times. A good thing can probably not be adopted many times enough. What may worry me a lot more is the experience we have. As I say, aftertime is the cheapest wisdom in the world. Yeah, we should be better prepared for a pandemic. We have done the same when we have experienced terrorist attacks on Norwegian soil: we were too poorly prepared. That is often what we see when a crisis comes, even if it is a notified crisis. We as society are often far too poorly prepared for this eventuality to happen, even if scientists, scientists and those who have any bearing on these things warn against it. Tomorrow, as a society, we can be exposed to a solar storm that totally destroys our infrastructure in terms of electricity, or for an asteroid impact. Many events can hit us as a society, and the experience is that we are virtually never prepared for these events, that will happen, that happen at regular intervals, to hit us. It's a little bit about the time perspective we're working from, and I think that's a problem. It's a problem especially the Western world has, and it's that we're not prepared enough to deal with crises. It's not about governments, it's about actually building readiness for the unmistakable. It also seems that you can only deal with one crisis at a time or that you can only prepare for one crisis at a time. The crisis that comes to mind then is usually the crisis in which everything is put in place, and which may also be overplayed when it happens. Before the pandemic, it was about climate. Then it's only climate. But as a society, we are facing many different potential crises, and that is where we need to learn. The most important lesson we have to take after covid-19, after the pandemic, is that we have to be prepared for several types of crises, and not just those that are perceived here and now as important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1338	The next speaker after the representative Jenny Klinge is the state councillor Bent Höie. And then we'll see if we can count it out before the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1343	I'm familiar with speaking fast, so it helps! In a world where people travel a lot and we hit many over a week, pandemics spread quickly and thus become a threat both to our health and to our appreciation and well-being. National preparedness is impossible without national thinking, as it is, of course, unrealistic to bet on the proper functioning of imports in crisis situations. It quickly turned out that we had too little anti-infection equipment when the coronary apathy hit us last year. It is not only important to have enough equipment here, the equipment must be of high quality as well. We in the Centre Party have presented this proposal on national preparedness and the production of infectious disease protection equipment because we believe that Norwegian authorities cannot continue to gamble on the fact that we get help from outside when a major outbreak of infection occurs. The government must facilitate the production of national infective equipment by e.g. to grant investment aid to Norwegian producers of vector equipment. We believe that the government also needs to establish contingency agreements with Norwegian manufacturers of such equipment, because we need to know that the infection protection equipment can be manufactured quickly when needed and of high quality. In addition to this, we need to have protective equipment stand-bys. It's great that some companies have turned around quickly to produce such equipment, and there's reason to boast of the Cyclic in this way. There they have really shown the ability to turn around, as Amatec did when they founded the company InnoVern and started producing mouthbands. In order for such producers to cope with international competition, the government must ensure that the scope for national production of the emergency product is increased in future supply processes. I don't want to criticize the government too much, because a pandemic will be difficult to deal with regardless of who is in government. But with the experience we have from the Coronapandemic now, there is no need to wait to put in place good measures to make our country better served on the next pandemic. We don't know when he's coming, and neither do we know how this coronapandemia will evolve further. I very much appreciate that we have received support from the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Swedish Judicial Committee, and that we get multiple numbers on the Stortinget for our proposals in this way. Good preparedness is essential in order to be safe, and access to infectious equipment is an important part of good preparedness. That is why I hope the government will follow up the decision on the deposit in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1358	Since the President has been given a signal that a non-replicon, we're trying to finish the case before the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1363	Since the start of the pandemic, the government has implemented a number of measures to improve preparedness and security of supply of infectious diseases equipment. In the first phase of the pandemic, agreements were concluded with several Norwegian producers who quickly converted their production against vector equipment, such as infective coats, goggles, visors, operating locks and disinfectants. A very good job was done. Gradually, agreements have been concluded with newly established Norwegian mouthband and respiratory care suppliers. Today there are two active agreements with Norwegian producers on the delivery of 20 million mouthbands and 2.5 million respiratory protection. In common with the agreements concluded with the Norwegian producers early in the pandemic, it is based mainly on an exceptional situation that arose, with considerable restrictions on the availability of infectious disease protection equipment. These assumptions are not as timely as a basis for a legal assessment of future public acquisitions. Therefore, it is important that future acquisitions are also made within the regulatory framework that we have. In recent years, we have built up a significant national emergency stock that is added to the emergency stores of municipalities and health businesses. The Health Directorate is now investigating the permanent organisation of this stock together with other measures to strengthen security of supply. In this context, the Directorate has been asked to consult the Norwegian manufacturing environment for the investigation of a more sustainable emergency response system, such as the one in question. may involve cooperation with industry in the procurement, national production and production contracts of verifiable purchases. We are also looking at how this can be achieved in a Nordic-European cooperation. In the state budget for 2022, the government aims to propose how to organise a permanent system for the storage and preparedness of infectious equipment, and it is natural for the government to follow up these proposals that seem to be adopted today, in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1374	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1388	The size is then ready to go to voting and start with the remaining issues from Tuesday 4 May, agenda no. Seventy-six.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1400	The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1408	Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Green Party have warned that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1422	SV shall vote against the Committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1427	It's not here, but we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1439	Case No. 11 was interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1451	The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1464	Case No. 13 and 14 were interpellation. The decision will then be taken to vote on the matter No. 1-3 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1478	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1–5, from Audun Lighthouse on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 6-8, by the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red Proposal No. 6 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Board of Directors shall wind up the remuneration committee and agree to a reduction of 20 pst in allowances for depositors, members of the government and prime minister. with effect from 1 May 2021, followed by the evolution of the basic amount of the population’s financial resources [[G]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1502	Proposal No. 8 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Presidency to draw up guidelines to ensure that there is less difference between the general salary level in society and the remuneration of grubbing-up representatives, members of the government and prime minister.’ The Socialist Left has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1519	Proposal No. 7 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Council asks the Presidency to draw up guidelines for the failure of large-scale representatives and members of the government to receive compensation at the same time for elected municipal/communities.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1536	Proposal No. 1, 2 and 4 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The remuneration committee of the Grand Duchy shall be wound up, the annual adjustment of the remuneration of the elected representatives shall be made directly by the Presidency.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Council asks the Presidency to make the necessary proposals to implement the following changes relating to the regulation of political incentives: The remuneration of the staging representatives is adjusted annually with a crown supplement equal to the average wage paid to an employee in the previous year. b. A rule is introduced that the remuneration of the aggregate representatives shall never reach the level of salaries of the 10 per cent highest paid in Norway, the 91 percentage point being used as an absolute limit. This means that this ceiling will be effective if the above adjustments give too much compared to those with the highest income. c. Government members and Prime Minister are subject to the same regulatory regime, with 1.4 and 1.75 times the gross domestic product respectively being taken into account. The background of these numbers is the difference of the day. d. The deposit allowance is adjusted downwards to a level below the 91 percentage point before the introduction of this new model, currently around 845 000 kroner.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose a law on the coordination of political incentives, which shall ensure that total remuneration cannot be obtained at more than the level corresponding to the remuneration of a Council of State. Any excess shall be returned proportionately to those who have paid.’» Red has already received subsidized support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1566	Proposal No. 3 and 5 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose that, under the Local Government Act, a limit on total compensation for elected representatives be set, including all elected representatives by decision in political bodies, including, for example, local authorities’ boards or similar.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government requests the establishment of a public portal for the publication of all remunerations, including the statutory obligation to report the remunerations. The portal shall ensure a publicly available national overview of remunerations resulting from political appointments and appointments, so that the public has full access to this information, both collectively for each policy and by function.’» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1600	The Socialist Left and Red have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1617	Document 20 [[2020-2021]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1633	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 2 and 3, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red Proposal No. 2 and 3 from Red. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a statutory quota scheme based on the Icelandic model for catches of fish exported, frozen or fresh, without having been processed on land in Norway.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a case to be brought forward with measures to ensure the landing of farmed fish in Norway in the future, including measures based on the quota-drawing scheme model in Iceland and other measures appropriate to halt the development represented by ‘Norwegian Gannet’, where Norwegian farmed fish are slaughtered on board the boat before being delivered abroad.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1664	Proposal No. 1, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to propose measures to ensure increased processing in Norway of Norwegian wild and farmed fish. Measures such as quota set-aside, fees and other measures shall be assessed.’;» The Labour Party and the Greens have already given their support to the proposal. Red has already received subsidized aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1690	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1709	A total of four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, from Himanshu Gulati on behalf of the Advance Party proposed no. 3 and 4, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 3 and 4 have been submitted after the deadline, cf. Paragraph 40 of the Rules of Procedure, and will thus not be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a phasing-out plan to remove the production subsidy for the so-called meaningful national newspapers.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to reduce the appropriations allocated to the NRK in proposals for next year’.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1742	The President will propose that the minutes be drawn up by the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-06.ana.ud166e1756	There is no record available. So the things on today's map are done. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
