ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e98	The application for welfare leave is submitted by the representative of Bjørn Moxnes on Friday 4 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Seher Aydar, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e118	Seher Aydar is present and will take the seat. Case No. 1 to 7 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e210	Mr Engen-Helgheim has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e215	I just want to say that in the event of an incurrency, the Group of the Party of Advancement voted against a paragraph of the law that we should have voted for, in Innst. 579 L for 2020-2021. It's because the government is proposing to increase living time to get citizenship from seven to eight years. We had proposed ten years, but it has been treated earlier in the session, so it was not contested. Then we should have voted in favour of that paragraph of the law. I just took the floor on that matter to get it right in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e220	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e237	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e244	The Government proposes in Prop. 128 L for 2020-2021 amendments to three provisions relating to breeding, covering costs and processing of personal data in the Animal Welfare Act. Firstly, it is proposed to clarify the wording of Section 25 in such a way that it is clear that both keepers, breeders, breeding organisations and breeding clubs are covered by the provision that breeding should promote characteristics that provide robust animals with good function and good health. At the same time, provision is made for the King to provide for breeding in accordance with these principles, including for breeding organisations and breeding clubs. Focusing excessively on individual characteristics of animals, both farm and pet animals, can lead to adverse effects on animal health and physiques. It has a negative impact on the quality of life and body functions of the animal. That is why the Ministry proposes clarifications in Section 25 of the Act, so that the content of the breeding plans can now be required for both keepers, breeders, breeding organisations and breeding clubs. Secondly, an amendment to Section 32 of the Act is proposed so that the provisions on reimbursement for the implementation of non-compliance include all persons who may be subject to an animal welfare order addressed to them — including landowners. In the past, this provision has only been applicable to persons responsible for animals. A concrete example mentioned in the proposition is the obligation to remove old barbed wire that could damage animals on their own property. This is, moreover, the only point in the proposal where the Committee is not in agreement with its comments and proposals. The Working Party, the Centre Party and the SV consider that in order to require reimbursement from non-animal keepers, it must be a condition that it is in order to rectify matters that they are responsible for having arisen. On that basis, they made a proposal, which I believe the proposers will explain in more detail in the debate. The majority of the Committee, the Government Parties and the Advance Party consider that the purpose of the amendment is to give landowners or other persons responsible an incentive to clean up barbed wire and other devices that are dangerous to animals. The majority therefore believe that it would not be wise to add that the owner of a property may waive the responsibility for cleaning up the unwanted barbed wire, even if it is set up by others. Thirdly, an amendment to Section 36 of the Act is proposed which means that consent will no longer be required if the supervisory authority establishes new or relates to existing personal data registers when necessary for the purposes of the Act. This is a change that brings the law into line with the principles of the EU Data Protection Regulation and an overall committee endorses the amendment. The Committee's recommendation is promoted by an overall committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e257	I take up the proposal from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV, which applies to the new Section 32, fourth paragraph. I should not argue for it, this is explained in the setting. Then I would also encourage the Council of State when she takes the floor, to perhaps comment on the comments of the Labour Party, the Senter Party and the SV when it comes to the Rogaland State Manager's project of cleaning up old barbed wire, whether these are positive measures that one sees for itself can be used in the country, or else, in addition to the law-enforcement owner of a sheep today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e264	The representative of Geir Pollestad then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e269	This government has taken several steps to work on animal welfare and to streamline the work of the Food Authority. Breeding affects animal welfare to a large extent. The Animal Welfare Act states that breeding shall promote characteristics that provide robust animals with good function and good health. More recently, there has been an increasing attention to adverse side effects of planned breeding on the health and use characteristics of particular pet animals. We propose to clarify the wording of Section 25 so that it is clear that breeding organisations and breeding clubs are covered by the provision and can therefore be imposed by regulation. This will facilitate the proper breeding of animals, taking into account the welfare of both farmed and pet animals. Unwanted barbed wire and other hazardous devices are of great importance for animal welfare. That is why I can say that the action taken by the Heads of State in Rogaland is also a good measure. So now we are proposing a change in the law so that the state can cover its expenses from anyone who can get a decision or order addressed, not just keepers, for example. a landowner or another person who clearly designates himself as responsible. This rule is a can-rule, and the Food Authority has a judgement on the responsibility for the costs and the amount of the amount. The person responsible shall be determined on a case-by-case basis. Food surveillance does not incur costs in cases where this would be unduly burdensome. We also propose a provision on the processing of personal data. It will clarify the legal basis of the Food Safety Authority for the processing of all necessary personal data. It will also harmonise animal welfare law with the system approach and the concepts used in the Data Protection Regulation. This will facilitate the proper processing of personal data and limit processing beyond what is necessary for the work of the Food Safety Authority. These are changes that have been requested and will facilitate the management of animal welfare challenges and the efficient and secure processing of personal data. I'm glad that the Storting seems to be adopting these changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e284	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e301	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e308	Let me start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation in this matter. It is a unanimous committee that promotes the recommendation. The Committee agrees with the government that it is right to facilitate more effective hunting for wild boar by opening up the use of artificial light in specific situations. The background for this is that wild boar is a foreign species in Norwegian fauna, and wild boar has for many years been on the Art Database's list of alien species in Norway – the so-called blacklist – where it is referred to as a species with a high invasive potential and low ecological impact. The Government has decided that the wild boar population should be managed with the objective of minimising the spread of wild boar over a minimum area, and that measures and instruments should be targeted at rapidly reducing the population and spreading of wild boar. This is something to which the Committee subscribes, in particular because it is an important precautionary measure to reduce the risk of African swine fever in Norway. Furthermore, a reduction in the population will help to reduce the risk of general agricultural damage and traffic congestion, to name a few. The Committee is concerned that the government’s interpretation of the concept of ‘artificial light’ in the proposition could create more uncertainty than clarification. There is no doubt that there are uncertainties and perhaps disagreements about how new technology fits into the concept or not. Therefore, a joint committee asks that instead of trying to interpret the term, this should be examined with a view to clarifying the definition of the concept of ‘artificial light’ in the wild law. Work is now under way in the Department on how to revise and modernise the law on wildlife. It is quite natural that this work is included there. The Committee is also concerned that the proposed change may affect the pursuit of other species where there is a derogation from the general prohibition on the use of light. This concern is in the same vein as the previous one, namely the ministry’s attempt to interpret the term ‘artificial light’. That is why we feel it necessary to stress that the proposed change we are dealing with here today applies only to hunting wild boars, not to other species.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e321	I will begin by saying that this applies only to hunting wild boar. I am pleased that the whole Stortinget agrees that there is a need to facilitate effective hunting for wild boar. That's good! The Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Climate and Environment are in the process of reviewing and modernising the entire wildlife law. This is a comprehensive legislative work that will take place over a longer period of time. At the same time, rapid implementation of the necessary measures is needed to help reduce the population of wild boar in Norway, and this is widely agreed. The government's objective is clear: the lowest possible number of wild boars spread over a minimum area. Any outbreak of African swine fever in Norway will have major societal implications. Wild boar is mainly night-active. Increased use of artificial light will therefore facilitate a more efficient hunting of wild boar and a faster stock reduction. Fewer wild boars will help to reduce damage to agricultural land and not least reduce the risk of traffic damage. The starting point of the game law is that the use of artificial light at all stages of hunting is prohibited unless a specific derogation has been granted for such use. The main purpose of the bill is to ensure that all forms of artificial light – including night optics – can be used for hunting wild boars. This measure will reduce the risk of the spread of African swine fever in Norway. For reasons of safety, the use of artificial light in hunting for wild boars shall be subject to the pursuit in an open terrain or in an attic. In the interest of animal welfare, the use of artificial light is also open for the purpose of searching for cuddly wild boars, similar to the search for passered deer game. Then I see that the Storting will ask the government to clarify the definition of ‘artificial light’ in the game law. In the current revision and modernisation of the game law, I, the Council of State, think that it is quite natural and reasonable that we carry out such a review of the rules of artificial light as part of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e340	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e345	As the rapporteur explained well, the Economic and Social Committee is committed to clarifying the type of optics that may be used in jackets. Some of the background to the concern of the nutrition committee is that the law is formulated today, saying that the use of artificial lighting in jackets is prohibited. With the technology that's been developed in recent years, we've got both hand-held binoculars that have an optic that enhances the light that's left in the twilight and into the evening, and we can have the same kind of lenses and optics in digital cell phones. So my question to the Minister of Agriculture is, like the law is written today, is it allowed to bring a mobile phone in pursuit of gear, or is it considered artificial lighting?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e350	I have to be sure in my answer, so can I get back to the representative Sandtrøen with the answer to that? This is probably also a definition question. But in the case of lighting that is requested in the matter itself, I will clarify it clearly in the revision of the law that comes. Then this too will be a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e355	That's very good, because some of the concrete things that the nutrition committee wants to clarify is the distinction between what kind of optics are allowed to install on weapons, and what may be allowed to use as hand-held aids, for example. mobile phones and binoculars, next to it. This is very important that we clarify, so that people who are engaged in hunting and outdoors can be sure that they are law - abiding when they are out in the woods and fields. Finally, I would like to have a reflection from the Minister of Agriculture on the work on wild boar in general, because that is what this matter is primarily about. In addition to this issue of artificial lighting, how does the Minister of Agriculture see that we need to step up our work in the future in order to bring down the wild boar population in Norway and actually get wild boars away from Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e362	First, I would like to say thank you for the reflection on different types of light. I want you to get a real answer to that. With regard to the wild boar strategy we have put forward, it's an eternal battle, because we have a long limit, and we have a country with a lot of wild boar on the other side of the border. It makes it extremely important for us to have a strategy where we have good contact with the landowners, forest owners and hunting teams to ensure that we are able to take out animals in a good way. We have put in control options for those who take animals – among others. up against the Veterinary Institute – and we have put money on the table, as a form of premium to take out animals, just for incentives. I think playing with the landowners is one of the most important things we do, also to get a relationship that they lose other types of animals, which are source of income for them, in their hunting areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e371	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e390	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e397	I thank you for your cooperation in the matter. The Committee shall display, inter alia: that today's mineral law has been in force for about 10 years, and during those years both the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries and the Directorate of Mineral Management have gained experience with the Svalbard Bergmeister. Feedback has been received from industry and organisations on a number of improvement points. That's what we're trying to catch up with. We point out that the mineral industry can become Norway's new growth industry, because minerals have a very important place in the green shift. The Committee also considers that the industry needs long-term and predictable conditions. Today, industry faces a number of challenges that are a brake on further investment, for example: long and circumstantial application procedures in order to be granted concessions. One further notes that the objective of the amendments proposed in this proposal is improvements and simplifications for industry, DMF and other public bodies related to this legislation. This may result in a reduction in the duration of proceedings, and it is an objective to increase the predictability of the industry. Otherwise, there have been some incubators and some people are missing where the government parties should have been inside. It is not least that we are going to support the proposal that exists from the other parties, and then it is promoted by a unanimous committee. This applies to: ‘The government is asked to develop a Norwegian mineral strategy, where the Norwegian mineral industry is seen in the context of the EU’s efforts to ensure access to critical minerals and metals.’ So these are also going to go into the government sections. We will also go into proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, and I refer: «The Government is asked to submit the proposal for the introduction of the order requirements of the Mineral Law Committee for an overall assessment.» So also the government parties are in favour of the two proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e422	Minerals are an exciting area, which a historically perhaps has exploited in a good way, but also a rough way. There are many legacys that are – to say the least – demanding for mineral activities around the country and that we are clearing up now, but there are at the same time many significant opportunities for the future here. One of the areas that have the potential in my own home country, Telemark, is the Fensfield, with a large number of rare soils, to which there are, if appropriate, significant values associated and which may also be able to measure up to the values that many fields represent on the Norwegian base in the oil and gas activity. So there's absolutely exciting possibilities. It is also, I think, an ethical and moral duty to take responsibility for the development of the mineral industry. We too strongly support the import of critical minerals for our own well-being. When the rapporteur now explained how the government parties now support the two proposals, I am very pleased about that. I very much appreciate that there will be a unanimous committee on this. The Labour Party will also vote in favour of proposal No. 4, as the government parties do. We're going to go out of «except §43, second paragraph, second sentence», as it says in the position, «promoted by the members of the Workers' Party, Right, Left and Christian People's Party». We're also going to have to look at that part of the setting, so we're going to be positioned correctly in that context. So probably SV is going to come up with a proposal for the creation of a state mineral company. We believe that it is natural for a person to evaluate it, perhaps especially against the proposal on a mineral strategy related to critical minerals and metals. But we're not ready to adopt this right now. It is appropriate to investigate and assess in this context whether a state ownership or state ownership of the development of that type of mineral may make sense. I'm addressing the suggestions the Workers' Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e439	The representative of Terje Aasland then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e444	Today's mineral law, as stated, has been in force for about ten years. During these ten years, a number of experiences have been gained, and many feedback has been received from industry and employment organisations, etc. on improvement points in the law. The aim of the change proposed in the proposal is to improve and simplify the industry, DMF and other public bodies dealing with this legislation. Hopefully, there will be a reduction in the duration of proceedings, and there is also an objective to increase the predictability of the industry. There are intentions that the Progress Party is fully behind. However, some concerns have been raised by actors in the mineral industry related to the proposal to introduce a sequence requirement, which implies that before the application for an operating concession is addressed, the area of operation must be clear for raw material extraction in decisions under the Planning and Building Act. I am very pleased that it now appears that we are getting a majority in favour of the proposal to send that point on order requirements back to the government, and that it will then be seen in connection with the work of the Mineral Law Committee, and that it will be followed up there. With that, I take up the proposal of which the Progress Party is part, and I also signal that we are going to support proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e453	The representative Bengt Rune Strifeldt has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e458	The centre party has in this case been somewhat in doubt if we would support the SV's proposal to send the case back to the government, but in the hearing this was a quite clear requirement, and it also has our dialogue with the industry in retrospect. Proposal No. 4 is a better requirement, and that is what determines the order requirement. The centre party is also pleased that several parties support proposal No. 4, and I'll assume that it has an effect on what one supports further in the setting. Then I'm just a little uncertain when it's shown in the setting that there's Section 43, second paragraph, second sentence that's produced by the Labour Party, Right, Left and Christian People's Party, and that they're now leaving. Or is it that the order requirement is actually anchored in Section 43, second paragraph, new sixth sentence, and that it is really a non-supported one? I think that one should be clarified before the vote, so that we vote correctly. The central party also supports the proposal that we believe SV will put forward to create a state mineral company, and we understand the wording that a requested government is proposing the creation of a state mineral company, as an order that this should be paid out and submitted to the Storting, which is then free to decide on it. So we don't have any problem going in for it today. So it's tempting to pay attention to Section 4, new third paragraph. For the Central Party national meeting, which we are going to have today, and where regional reform is guaranteed to be a theme, it is quite gratifying that we should legislate on this: ‘For the purposes of this Act, Finnmark means the area until the merger with the Finnmark County of Troms.’ One would think that the regional reform had a result that could also fit into the mineral laws, but not at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e474	First of all, I just want to take up the proposal from SV, and I would like to have a discussion about making adjustments to the proposal to set up state mineral companies, if it can ensure that several parties will support it. Willoch said in the 1980s that in industries that are important to the nation, the state must have a significant ownership. So Kåre Willoch, the King of Japan, said it. A lot of water has run under the brown side that time, and now one can trick every Kåre Willoch's spirit is and belongs to home. But anyway, we've put forward this proposal that we should turn the mineral industry into an important industry, and that the state involvement becomes decisive if we're going to get it done. The reality is that Canadian, Australian, and Chinese giants dominate this field globally. So a mineral strategy that adds up to more extraction in Norway, and where the ultimate thing is these companies that are going to get the profit from it, in an industry where the rent tax rate is marginal, it's -- to put it that way -- a terrible strategy if the goal is to create values to Norway, based on the resources we have in Norway. So there Willoch had a very good point. Mineral nutrition – or mining nutrition, as we would have said if we flushed back 30 years in time – is a crucial industry for everything. We can only see how much mineral we have around us: in what we're wearing, what we're surrounding, what we have in our pockets, and what we're looking at -- everything has mineral origins. In the future, strategies need to be changed. We're going to replace what's non-renewable with what's renewable, because in a number of important areas, it's starting to be global, and in the longer term, it's going to be open. We need to replace it in projects where one replaces input factors that are currently non-renewable, with renewable input factors, such as. a user of lignin to develop bio-based battery. It's an absolute future. So in the future it can smell forest or fish of the cell phones we surround with. In the meantime, we must have an active mineral policy, and that mineral policy must not only be confined to mines, it must also be based on waste. Internationally, we also see access to what is called urban mining, where there is actually a larger occurrence of rare metals in garbage than there is a Finn in the best mines. So this is a field where it's important to have a better strategy as a nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e485	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e490	The mineral industry is an important industry for Norway, and the government will focus on facilitating growth in this industry. In addition to contributing to the overall objective of maximum overall value creation in the Norwegian economy, the mineral industry is also crucial for the green shift. Many environmental technologies require the use of minerals, i.e. electric cars, wind turbines and solar cells – just to name a few. It is therefore absolutely central that we have a competent diet that helps to extract minerals and to meet the needs of ourselves and the rest of the world. At the same time, the government is committed to sustainable extraction. This bill is a concrete measure to follow up the Granavolden Declaration, which states that the government will improve the framework conditions for the mineral industry and evaluate the Mineral Law for the purpose of sustainable resource development. Today's mineral law has been in force for about ten years. During these years, the Ministry of Mineral Management and the Directorate for Mineral Management, DMF, have gained experience. We have also received feedback from industry, employment organisations and others on improvement points in the law. The proposed amendments aim at adjustments and simplifications for industry, the Directorate and other public bodies related to this Act. It is an objective to reduce the duration of proceedings and to provide more predictability to the industry. The main changes to the proposition are the introduction of a general qualification requirement for all mineral activities. This will contribute to more sound operation and is a measure limiting access for non-professional operators. It is also proposed that operational concessions can be transferred within certain frameworks. This is a simplification measure for business and will help to speed up proceedings at DMF. Furthermore, it is proposed to introduce a sequence requirement. This implies that there must be clarification under the Planning and Building Act before the application for an operating concession is considered. The proposal is intended to help prevent ambiguities related to land clearance once the concession has been granted. Now I understand that there will be a majority to push on this topic and deal with it with the rest of the law, and I understand that also the government parties will join it. This is the first step in major regulatory work. The government has set up a NOU committee that faces challenges with legislation requiring further investigation, including issues related to international law and Sami interests. The committee is scheduled to deliver its statement in December, and this is a matter which Stortinget will also have the opportunity to discuss later.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e502	The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e507	I take the word only to come back to what is recommended by the Committee, now when proposal No. 4 seems to get a large multiple. It is recommended from the Committee that one supports all the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 43. It will be enough, now that several parties have gone into it, and we've been conferring a little bit here, that there is Section 43, second paragraph, sixth sentence that goes out as a result of proposal No. 4 is confirmed. But I think the council and her people can check it and give feedback before voting on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e512	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox Case No. 11 and 12 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e544	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate in this way: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e551	Thank you to the committee. It is a unanimous committee that has put forward the position in this matter. Consent to the Government's proposal to implement Decision No EEA Committee 235/2020 and 236/2020 concerning the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of EU Directive 2017/828 and EU Regulation 2018/1212. The content of the proposal relates to the transparency of ownership and participation in the general meeting of limited liability companies. This implementation of the Directive and of the Regulation in Norwegian law will require a legislative amendment. Therefore, it is also proposed to amend the Shares Act, the General Shares Act and the Central Securities Act. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has been presented with the suspension of the Economic and Social Committee for the implementation of Directive and Regulation and has no comments. The legislative proposals are intended to ensure equal treatment for all shareholders and to strengthen Norwegian companies’ access to foreign capital. In addition, rules are proposed to contribute to increased transparency about who is the owner and exercises ownership influence in Norwegian companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e560	I have noticed that there is an overall nutrition committee that recommends that the Storting adopt the proposals for changes to the share law and agree to the approval of the decisions of the EEA Committee to include Directive 2017/828 and Implementing Regulation 2018/1212 in the EEA Agreement. I'm very pleased that it's a cross-political consensus. The proposals implement parts of an amending Directive to the Shareholders’ Rights Directive. The overall objective of the Directive is to increase the long-term involvement of shareholders in listed companies. Many foreign companies and individuals currently own shares in Norwegian companies without their own name being entered in the shareholder register. Instead, there is a so-called AIFM that assists the shareholder. The Directive has rules to ensure the shareholder rights of that group of shareholders. The rules are also intended to contribute to more active ownership of this group. The Government proposes rules implementing the requirements of the Directive. The proposals shall make it easier for non-resident owners with registered shares to participate in the general meeting, while allowing companies to control who have the right to participate. The government proposes rules that will increase transparency about ownership in Norwegian companies. Transparency about ownership, ownership structures and power relationships in business are fundamental values in Norwegian society. Today, the public has access to who is directly established as shareholders in the shareholder register. The government proposes rules that will also give the public the right of access to who owns managed shares. The proposal will establish a principle of transparency for all shareholders in Norwegian companies. The Government proposes regulatory support to provide rules for all public limited-liability companies to publish periodically a list of their shareholders. The same obligation shall apply to limited liability companies which have registered shares. The Government also proposes that public limited-liability companies publish a list of shareholders who have participated in the general meeting. Overall, the proposals for transparency and publication represent a substantial extension of public access to information on who owns shares and holds ownership in Norwegian companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e579	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 11 and 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e596	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e603	I would first like to thank the Cooperation Committee. It is a majority of the Business Committee that proposes that the Storting consent to the EEA Committee’s decision to include in the EEA Agreement a regulation establishing the EU Space Programme for the period 2021-2027 and the EU Agency for the Space Programme. The Contracting Party and SV propose that the proposal be returned to the Government on the grounds that it has not been dealt with in the EEA Committee. However, the EU has adopted the Regulation in its Decision of 27 April 2021. It would be unfortunate for Norwegian companies if we did not join these programmes now. The same prior authorisation procedure was also used in the previous examination of the issue of Norwegian participation in the EU programmes. Norway has participated in the EU’s two separate space programmes, Galileo and EGNOS, relating to satellite navigation, and Copernicus, which concern Earth observation, since they were established as an EU programme. The proposal for a regulation now brings together the EU space programme in a single programme for the next programming period. This new programme will also cover the new initiatives of GOVSATCOM, which are concerned with secure satellite communications for regulatory purposes, and the SSA, which is concerned with space monitoring. It also establishes the Agency for the EU Agency for the Space Programme, which replaces the European GNSS Agency. The Agency’s tasks are extended to include all components of the EU space programme. Participation in the Programme facilitates the provision to Norwegian operators of the necessary insights into the best possible use of EU satellite systems, ground infrastructure and associated services for Norwegian users. Norway’s geography, topography and food and housing structure make us one of the countries that are likely to benefit most from Galileo and EGNOS. Participation in the programmes has given Norwegian authorities the opportunity to influence the programmes in order to safeguard Norwegian interests in a good way. Participation in the programmes has provided Norwegian administration and industry with an early insight into systems providing services on which society relies. This has helped position the Norwegian industry in the growing market for services that benefit satellite navigation. Participation in the programmes is a pre-requisite for Norwegian economic operators to be given the opportunity to purchase contracts that are published under the programme. It may be worth mentioning that Oslo Economics has carried out an evaluation of participation in the programmes. Here it was concluded that Norway’s participation in space programmes is socio-economically profitable and that further participation is a prerequisite for realising the benefits of the investments made now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e622	I take up the proposal from the Centre Party and SV in this matter. The reason for this is in the setting, and the case officer was also involved in the post. Both the Central Party and the SV will vote in favour of the proposal for a decision on the matter if we do not get multiples for our proposal, so it is a joint committee that either directly or subsidly supports the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e627	The representative of Geir Pollestad then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e632	The rapporteur has given a good account of the matter itself. Norwegian participation in the EU's new space programme will continue to contribute to the achievement of basic societal tasks, such as navigation, climate and environmental monitoring, marine rescue, evacuation and rescuing, and maritime sovereignty. Participation also facilitates the provision to Norwegian operators of the necessary insights into the best possible use of EU satellite systems, ground infrastructure and associated services for Norwegian users. With regard to the proposal from the central party and the SV to send the matter back to the government, it is first of all that this is a procedure that has also been used in the past. The reason why we're doing that is because the Storting has now once chosen to organize itself as it has. If we want to, and the government will, allow Norwegian actors to participate in the space program from the start of, we need to get a prior approval like here. I believe it is important that Norwegian industrial actors be able to participate in the calls for proposals and compete for contracts similar to those in EU Member States, so I am pleased that the Committee is joining it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e641	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e658	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e665	I would also like to thank the Cooperation Committee on this matter, and in this matter it is a majority of the Economic and Social Committee that proposes that the Storting give its consent to the participation of the EEA Committee in its decision to include it in the EEA Agreement of Regulation No. 2021/523 establishing the InvestEU programme. The centre party and SV have a proposal that the proposition should be returned to the government, with the same reason they used in the previous case, and I do not need to repeat it. The establishment of the InvestEU programme regulates the EU programme to trigger socio-economic profitable investments in innovative and sustainable business. There is a broad participation in EU programme cooperation in the future. This includes participation in Horizon Europe, EU4Health, Digital Europe, the European Defence Fund, the Space Programme and COSME. The financial instruments in those programmes will consist primarily of grants, while the InvestEU will include the loan, guarantee and equity instruments associated with the investments. The EEA Agreement provides Norway with an opportunity to participate in the different financial instruments of the InvestEU on equal terms with the Member States. The inclusion of the Regulation in the EEA Agreement will give Norway the right to participate in the instruments under InvestEU, given that Norway fulfils the corresponding obligations. The InvestEU can provide important access to a range of instruments in a range of sizes that we do not offer here at home. The InvestEU is expected to mobilise more than 372 billion. euro in private and public funding for projects requiring a kick-start. It is a central part of the effort for Europe's green giving, for strengthening the capital market in early stages and for developing Europe's industry. This is important when we want to create the new green jobs in the future. IPCEI is one of the programmes under this Regulation. The Norwegian industry has received a call for Norwegian participation in this programme and the government has joined the IPCEI for hydrogen at the turn of the year. This was very well received in the industrial environment, among others. at Mo Industriepark. As Jan Gabor of Mo Industripark said, Norway has now joined the IPCEI, strengthening its chances of success with Hydrogen Hub Mo.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e680	I would like to address the proposal from the minority with the same reason as in the previous case. And the Centre Party and SV will subsidize the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e685	The representative of Geir Pollestad then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e690	Thanks to the Storting and the Committee which has prioritised the consideration of the agreement proposal on InvestEU now in the spring session. It's important for the further work. Norway has a good tradition of and good experience with participation in EU programme work. The government adds to a broad participation in the future also because it is important for Norwegian business. The InvestEU brings together and further develops loan, guarantee and equity instruments from the previous framework programmes in a single programme. Among these are the instruments we have previously had access to through Horizon 2020. Consent to the inclusion of the InvestEU Regulation in the EEA Agreement will allow Norway to continue to participate in these instruments and in a number of others. The reorganisation of investment vehicles in the EU has led to greater uncertainty and uncertainty about the design of the InvestEU than the other programmes. We have based the proposal that the government will come back to the Storting whether there are significant deviations from the proposition. Proposals on which instruments under the Norway programme should participate in and the associated economic impact will also be returned by the government to the State budget for 2022. The InvestEU shall build upon the efforts and instruments we are involved in financing in the other programme cooperation. In addition, the InvestEU is relevant to national bets and bets at European level, as previously referred to as that IPCEI. The Innovation Fund is linked to the EU climate quota system and the security of European value chains. In a minority comment, which has been explained by the Centre Party, we would like to await the examination to be completed within the EEA Committee. As I also said in the previous case, we choose to do so precisely in order for Norwegian companies to have access to loans, guarantees and equity instruments at the same time as competitors and partners in the EEA area. Expected start of the programme is towards the end of 2021 and New Year 2022. I'm glad to see that the committee is in favour of the programme, and that we are moving forward in the process of getting a well-adapted participation for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e709	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e726	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e733	This is an important message for Norway, and I am pleased that we are dealing with this in this Chamber today. The future value creation of Norway depends on the fact that we get many more legs to stand on. We need to succeed in conversion and green growth, and we need to facilitate growth in the private sector beyond the growth of the public sector. The data economy represents an annual value creation estimated at 150 billion. kr a year, and with the right assumptions we can expect a double, 300 billion. kr, towards 2030. In other words, it's a new and solid leg to stand on for the nation. New technology, such as: artificial intelligence and large-scale data analysis make it possible to obtain more data than before. A successful data economy and a successful value chain will be central to Norway’s future value creation. If we succeed, it is also a solid contribution to providing an efficient, modern and good public sector. Public-private interaction is one of the success criteria for a successful data economy. Public data are also a resource for business, and business solutions are relevant to the public sector. It is important that the market solves the challenges that the market can best solve and that the public should become a better order. If we are to succeed, European and strong Nordic cooperation is also important. International cooperation must relate to development, but also to common legislation. Cooperation on development is of little help if each country has its own rules on how to use it. Data knows no limits, so we need to agree on how to use them across borders. Data economy, including data sharing as a commercial commodity, also raises ethical issues. Here, too, Nordic and international cooperation will be important – a level playing field, including tax rules, and ensuring that the use benefits Norwegian citizens. Therefore, it is good that the Communication underlines that Nordic and international cooperation is essential for success. There is also a need for increased and appropriate competences. It includes both continuing training of existing workers and enhanced and new courses of education in ICT and economics. More and more research is needed in this area. Sharing data allows for simplification, and it is important that we take into account small and medium-sized enterprises in this part of the work. Increasingly widespread digitisation of society reinforces the need for all households in Norway to also have access to broadband or similar digital infrastructure. The notification also discusses the need for good practices to safeguard privacy in all data storage and sharing activities. It's one of the major challenges in the future, and it has to be taken very seriously. A busy interview at Stortinget has led to somewhat shorter debates than we might otherwise have or would normally have had. For this reason, I would also like to refer to the excellent comments of the government parties on several of the very important chapters of the notification, which time does not allow to go into more detail at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e754	There is undoubtedly an important question that lies in this big message about the digitisation of our society, and about the world, to say it like that. Digitalisation is constantly surrounding us and is important to us and touches us and has many opportunities in it. It is good to get a big message, as the rapporteur emphasised, there are considerable economies there, significant opportunities, but we still think that this big message lacks some direction, and it lacks some clarifications that we believe are absolutely essential, as developments in digitisation take place. One of the things that's important to us is that we have to be able to use the data that is, but with official control and security to facilitate their good use. That is why we have a number of proposals on this matter that we think are absolutely necessary to take the right steps forward and make sure that we get a right direction on it. The most important thing is proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. We ask the government to set up an expert committee to ensure democratic control over the digitisation of society, and that Norwegian data provide value creation in Norway – and a number of sub-points to it. There is a complete lack of information in the notification and important to get in place. Then it's important to take this digitisation discussion strongly in the future, make sure that we get a democratic process, and that digitisation is also fair. With that, I take up the suggestions that the Workers' Party has put forward in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e767	The representative of Terje Aasland has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e772	It is high time that the Storting had the opportunity to discuss data in a broader way, as a Storing Message stated. This is a theme that would have deserved much greater policy attention than it is today. However, I am quite sure that this is a subject that will be more debated, including in this Chamber, in the future. To date, Norway has taken a passive view of the issues and data-related possibilities. Data is kind of just something that happens by itself. But data is just a basis. For example, out of the data. AI, artificial intelligence, based on algorithms, and the algorithms are written by humans. While Norway has taken this passive role, other countries have completely different approaches. Two of the extremes among those that can be perceived as highly active in data are the United States and China. China is collecting huge amounts of data from its citizens to build community control, so that the Communist regime can control its citizens from cradle to grave. An example of horror from there – it may be a myth – is that the bank rate you can expect depends on how many times you have crossed the street on red man and been caught by a face-detecting camera that the state has set up. The other side is the United States. They also collect huge amounts of data from their citizens, but use it to build new business models. They use the data to create values, create jobs, create new drugs – simply a better society. The right to return to power has made Norway rich. Perhaps some kind of data right to return can make Norway even richer, even more valuable, with more jobs and more innovation. The data that Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon and other major global technology giants collect from all of us should be able to benefit the big community. The discussion we have to take forward is this: if the data is the new oil, what should be the engine? Here, the state has to lay down a framework for how we can make use of valuable data. We need efficient platforms to collect and co-ordinate data, and the state needs to define how this is to be done, and which frameworks apply. Today, for example, we can manage. not allowing researchers sufficient access to health data. That's how they're prevented from developing vital drugs. So better use of data isn't just about more value creation, it can in some cases be about life or death. It is natural that privacy is given a great place in the debate on data. We are also concerned about it, but we cannot get into a situation where we short-circuit all processes due to fear of privacy. The data protection must be based, but in most cases it can be combined.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e785	Data a world. It might sound a little bit better in English, 'data is eating the world', but it's very much true in it. For the most part, the largest companies in the world are building their entire business model on data. The power has moved into the data. Data is becoming an increasingly large part of our entire economy. It's not one industry, it's very, very many, and they intervene in absolutely every community area. What so neatly and gracefully began in the office prop room many, many years ago, and which later moved to computer etc., etc., has now begun to take over the entire world. That this should have been more than a three-minute debate, is open, but that is the time. The government should have come up with a strategy for this a long time ago. After eight years – first on top of the tap, only a few weeks before the ageing period is over – a strategy now comes up that is unclear and seems a bit like an obligation. We should have come a lot longer than this. How to secure data? How to secure data infrastructure? How to create value of data? How to use data to build nutrition? How to use data to build the public sector? In all of these areas, the government has been totally helpless sluggish, while we see with fascination what is happening just across borders in Sweden, Finland and Denmark, which have come unfathomably much longer in clarifying things and using public data consciously to create businesses in the country. What has been the tone of this government's review is that a blue eye has only put it on offer – gigantic public procurement where the core is the use of data, which has largely gone outside the country, very much in Silicon Valley. As a result, there has been a loss of all the possibilities of building Norwegian business. It was probably two years after the blue-blue government started working in 2013, i.e. in 2015, that I started to wonder, where was Paul Chaffey? Paul Chaffey had a fantastic blog where he talked about how unlikely forward Norway had to be, and how miserable the Norwegian government was to seize new possibilities relating to data. After that time he ended up as State Secretary and was about to become Chief Data Officer. So nothing has happened. Where did Paul Chaffey go? I'm calling for it. I haven't seen anything. Then we get this, where there is no clear strategy, and where we from the opposition have to come up with completely open proposals, which the position refuses to vote for. I'm taking up our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e802	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e807	New technologies and digitisation can provide us with better quality of life and health, create new jobs and create a sustainable future. Nevertheless, developments need to be guided wisely to ensure that technology is developed and used for the benefit of all people. The aim must be to get the best out of technology and counteract its unfortunate effects. Sharing data across businesses and actors can provide value-added for society as a whole. The data economy is promising, and there is already an enormous amount of exciting happening in several sectors. In order to create a competitive Norway in the future, we must succeed in the ambitions set out in this big message. Norway has good conditions for realising the potential of the data economy: high trust, good public registers, a strong culture of cooperation and a well-developed digital infrastructure. We can get data sharing across the board. Then we have to know next time how to apply and process the data we collect. Competence is therefore one of the key prerequisites for reaping data as a resource, but trust is an equally important assumption. Societal vulnerability to digital threats is a challenge, and when it is collected, stored and processed more and more data, the exposure face to vulnerabilities increases. Good information security creates confidence and predictability not only within businesses but also among partners, customers and the general population. That trust is therefore fundamental to all value creation. People should have confidence in Norwegian services and products based on data. There are high values in data through information managed by public and private enterprises. Data on e.g. customer relationships, business processes, products and services are valuable assets and must be managed responsibly. The Christian People's Party supports the government's ambition to develop national administrative principles for a responsible data economy. At the same time, Norway is not an isolated island in this new economy. The regulatory framework that becomes applicable internationally is also important for Norway. The government will influence developments in the EU and the OECD to move in the direction of Norwegian business, and will do so in cooperation with the other Nordic countries. That is the Christian People's Party satisfied with it. It is strategically important to be involved in the development of international standards related to data processing in order to safeguard Norwegian interests. In several sectors, the use of data sets of particular societal interest is well developed. The health sector is such an example. The health industry has large data sets from some of the world's most comprehensive and complete health records, with data going back a long time. The Christian People's Party is pleased to work on the new health analysis platform that is in progress. Such a national ecosystem for health analysis will include, inter alia: contribute to better health research, more accurate healthcare and innovation of medical technologies and medicinal products, while enhancing privacy. These are good examples of development work in line with the objectives set out in the Communication. Such bets want Christian People's Party to help strengthen in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e826	Digitalisation poses certain regulatory challenges that this message is also faced with. I just want to deal with two issues. The first is how to secure the digital rights of all people and ensure that everyone comes along. It may be those who, for various reasons today, do not master the digital platforms, or who do not want to use them, and we need to take account of them in public activities and otherwise in policy-making. So that's also what's going to apply to the development of infrastructure. According to the view of the Centre Party, we are not there today as we should be when it comes to securing all access to broadband and well enough broadband. It's a digital class distinction in Norway that is too much defined by geography. That's why it's so good that it's about to be a choice. That's why it's so good that we're about to have a national meeting in the Central Party, so that you can have a good policy that everyone should be involved in, that we should build up the digital rights of all people, and that one from the East can take a force to get everyone in Norway access to broadband.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e833	The data-driven economy will become increasingly important for the value creation of our country. Therefore, the government has set a target for Norway to create values and more new jobs across the country with data as a resource. We need to improve the efficiency of digitisation and the use of data as a resource in a socially useful way. Then we need a business that uses data to develop sustainable products and services and create new jobs. We need a public sector that contributes to simplification, efficiency and greater transparency by sharing data with business and civil society. That is why I am very pleased that this message has been received very well, and that it provides clear guidance on how Norway is going to manage to create more jobs across the country just by using data in a smart and safe way. Public data is our common resource, and the value of data must benefit society. Norway has among the best public data registers in the world because it spends time and money on it. It is expensive to organise data publishing, and therefore the government will look at how we can best organise and finance the tasks of sharing public data with the business community and others. At the same time, we also need to look at how legislation can regulate access to public data in the best possible way. Therefore, the government will now appoint a public sample to assess new legislation and include an obligation for the public to share the data that can be shared. People should have confidence in Norwegian services and products based on data. Privacy, consumer protection, non-discrimination and non-discrimination are important Norwegian societal values that will also be the basis of the data economy. This is why we are promoting national principles on how Norway should conduct a responsible data economy. The government is now assessing a digital solution that will provide people with a better understanding of their own personal data that the public sector has about them and what they are going to use for. From the past, the government has supported the creation of a regulatory sandbox for artificial intelligence in the Data Protection Authority. The regulatory framework that becomes applicable internationally is also important for the Norwegian data economy. That is why we are working with the EU and the OECD in a direction that Norwegian businesses are serving, and we will do this in cooperation with the other Nordic countries. Norway has good conditions for realising the potential of the data economy: high trust, good public registers, a strong culture of cooperation and a well-developed digital infrastructure. We must continue to train people with ICT skills and facilitate lifelong learning. Competence is our key prerequisite for reaping the values of data as a resource.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e843	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e867	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Toril Eidsheim on behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 2, from Helge André Njåstad on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 3-5, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–5, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to transfer responsibility for the Planning and Building Act from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation to the Ministry of Climate and Environment.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘In Law No 27 June 2008 71 on planning and processing of construction works is amended as follows: Section 19-2, second paragraph, the following fourth sentence is added: Dispensation shall only be granted in previously built areas.’» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure a strengthening of municipal planning and natural knowledge and the capacity of municipalities to ensure better conservation, climate adaptation, soil protection and outdoor life.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e910	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to wind up the scheme whereby, on behalf of the Ministry, the site manager deals with complaints about exemptions under the Planning and Building Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e925	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess how complaints relating to exemptions under the Planning and Building Act can be better handled, resourcefully and in time, in cases where the state administrator is himself a complainant or otherwise a party to the case.’; The left has announced support for the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1021	The first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 19-2 is added to A. The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1035	It goes over the rest of A.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1045	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1055	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1143	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1153	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1165	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Jon Engen-Helgheim on behalf of the Progress Party, proposal No 3, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Prop. 156 L Law on the liability of public bodies for the use of interpreters etc. [[2020-2021]] [[interpretation law]] sent back to the government.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1189	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals that guarantee an individual right to interpret under the interpretative law.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1204	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a revised proposal for a law on public bodies’ responsibilities for the use of interpreters.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1498	It is votted over A § 11. The Progressive Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1512	It goes over the rest of A. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1527	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1541	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1555	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1574	During the debate, Guro Angell Gimse put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law 21 June 2019, No. 63 on the prohibition of the keeping of fur animals is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 3 is replaced by the following: A fur animal breeder shall be entitled to compensation for losses resulting from the closure of fur animal activities resulting from the prohibition in Section 1 if the farmer owns a plant for the holding of fur animals and kept fur animals on 15 January 2018. Similarly, in the case of fur breeders that on 15 January 2018 rented installations for the holding of fur animals and kept fur animals. In such cases, the owner of the fur animal establishment is also entitled to compensation.’; Alternatively, this proposal and the appointment of the Committee shall be replaced by the first paragraph of Section A(3). The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1712	It is votered over A I, the rest of § 3. The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1726	It is votted over A I §§ 4–6 and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1737	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1747	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1784	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1803	During the debate, Mr Sem-Jacobsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive communication on a long-term plan to strengthen children and the main municipal and government services and services of young people, including, but not limited to, education, child protection, volunteering, mental health for children and young people, leisure activities and measures against violence and abuse.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1834	All in all, seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 6 and 7, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a four-year escalation plan with earmarked funds to increase the staffing of municipal child protection, and to present it in proposals for the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of an indicative staffing standard in which case handlers with administrative functions in municipal child protection cannot be responsible for more than 15 children.’ [[function 244]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1872	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1–5, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the public is responsible for the basic capacity of child protection for all target groups.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to amend the Child Protection Act in order to ensure that government grants do not benefit commercial child protection actors.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that actors receiving government grants for the operation of child protection measures receive pay, employment and pension conditions in line with those in public action.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an even more stringent interpretation of what constitutes the exercise of public authority in order to limit the rental of private consultants in the field of child protection.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the Regulation on working time in institutions which have participation schemes, so that it is adapted to the non-profit institutions intended for the provision of the regulation, and to set down a sample of the parties representing the children as a group of users, in order to examine any other changes to the rules on participation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1909	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1918	Case No. 1 is the third reading of the law and applies to the Act 119 with the adopted remark of the Grand Duchy meeting on 31 May 2021. It is therefore contested by the legislative decision with the adopted remark from the second reading.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1930	The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved by the third reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1939	Case No. 2–7 are the second processing of laws and apply to legislative acts 134 to 139. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e1954	During the debate, Mr Pollestad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 32 is replaced by the following: However, the keeper or owner of the land shall not cover costs arising from conditions beyond their control. Paragraph 32, fourth paragraph, second and third sentences shall become the third and fourth sentences.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e2036	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e2047	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e2106	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e2117	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e2143	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 4, from Bengt Rune Strifeldt on behalf of the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 5 and 6, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Prop. 124 L is returned to the government.» [[2020-2021]] The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e2172	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to propose the creation of a state mineral company that can conduct exploration and extraction of minerals where local jobs and value creation are ensured with high environmental standards.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e2180	The centre party shall support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e2185	It's noted. The centre party thus announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e2197	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to develop a guide for action holders to prepare the process for mineral extraction.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider appointing a coordinating authority for work on necessary permits for concession projects in the mineral industry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e2220	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose measures to speed up the monitoring of mineral resources in Norway.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e2237	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to submit the proposal for the introduction of the order requirements of the Mineral Law Committee for an overall assessment.» All the other parties have indicated their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e2477	The second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 43 shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e2482	I'm not sure if thatvoting is right, because there's no second term, the second sentence we're going to vote on. That's the second term, the second term, the sixth sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e2487	The vote is correct because the representative referred to will be taken later.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e2492	But then all the parties have to vote for the second term, the second sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e2497	It's noted. So the second sentence of Section 43 of Section 43. We assume that all parties will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e2511	A Section 43, second paragraph, adds a new sixth sentence. As a result of the proposal No. 4 has just been adopted, all the parties have now announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e2523	It is votered over A I, new § 45 a.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e2533	It goes over the rest of A. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e2548	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e2562	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e3008	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e3018	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e3030	During the debate, Mr Pollestad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Prop. 178 S is returned to the government.» [[2020-2021]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e3052	Here's a reason to believe that everyone's in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e3069	During the debate, Mr Pollestad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Prop. 181 S is returned to the government.» [[2020-2021]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e3103	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-7, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 8, from Torgair Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose a 75 million grant. crowns of an ‘artificial intelligence fund’.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e3127	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess measures, including the use of state capital, to ensure increased access to capital for start-up companies.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e3142	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–4, 6 and 7 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up an expert committee to ensure democratic control over the digitisation of society and for Norwegian data to provide value creation in Norway. The selection shall include, inter alia: Analyze how Community interests and controls are affected when new sectors of society are increasingly digitised and pay particular attention to sectors such as education, energy, health and transport. propose measures and strategies to prevent monopolistic and power concentration and ensure fair distribution of value creation in a fully digitised society, including assessing when the State should consider taking ownership of infrastructure, platforms and platform development, standard development, etc. Profit-sharing models shall be discussed with and without an effective tax policy for international technology companies. National measures need to be proposed where international penetration is considered unlikely. Promote proposals in which sectors and in which contexts the public should require data sharing and data ownership from the private to the public, for example in concessions, tenders, grants, etc. with a view to achieving key societal objectives. propose measures in which the State facilitates the further processing of data produced in Norway in Norway to a greater extent, and clarify the scope for action in the EEA Agreement.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal to ensure transparency in algorithms that provide the basis for decisions that have a significant impact on individuals or society. The proposal should assess the need and who, where appropriate, should certify and control such algorithms.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the role of trade union movement and to safeguard the interests of ordinary people in the digital economy, including in particular the management of personal data, the distribution of value creation from these data and the interests of individuals towards the major technology platforms.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government requests the establishment of a pilot project for the uniform transparency of personal data stored by the public about the individual, for example in the field of health.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to review how it shares use data from public websites with large technology companies and other third parties and to propose rules for allowing such sharing.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the creation of a state cloud solution for the storage of public data such as health data, financial data and detailed data point on citizens and infrastructure.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e3208	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-04.ana.ud248e3241	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
