ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e72	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From Red there is an application for a permit to provide care to the representative of Bjørn Moxnes on Thursday 11 February. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative Seher Aydar is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e94	Seher Aydar is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e101	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today, and considers it to be adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e110	On behalf of the representatives of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Mona Fagerås, Lars Haltbrecken, Karin Andersen, Nicholas Wilkinson and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to prevent tax competition between municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e115	The representative, Gisle Meininger Saudland, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e120	On behalf of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Morten Stordalen, Tor André Johnsen and myself, I would like to propose the scaling down of Gartnerløkka and overall transport planning in Kristiansand.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e125	The representative of Åshild Bruun-Gundersen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e131	On behalf of myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for a representative to ensure that all persons who are exposed to an accident are also compensated for their costs for the necessary treatment of dental injuries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e136	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e156	This is going to be more like a little explanation of vote to figure out. It is quite well known to the majority of people that SV is skeptical that the Storting and the State are going to be involved in and influence huge wage differences in society, and we have gone in that direction in recent years. So someone might say, "Yes, what about your sail?" Then I have to say that SV has a pretty clear history of what we also think about the gross wages. I think that just this year we should think a little bit of manner for the government employees. We know that large groups in society, especially this year, have had problems. They've fallen significantly in wages, and maybe it's just now that there's unmusical with the salary increase proposed here. So I just want to say, we want to go against this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e165	The Presidency today puts forward its position on the regulation of the salaries of the members of the Supreme Court. The Presidency proposes to a co-chairman that the Stortinget set the salary for members of the Supreme Court as in the vote. For the last ten years, the management of the Grand Duchy has been based on the assumption that wage developments for Supreme Court judges should follow the level and wage developments of the upper rank of state leaders. In regulating the salaries of the judges of the Supreme Court, the Presidency has given particular attention to the actual wage developments of the leaders of the state's tenure system the year before and the developments of the judges of the first and second instance. At the same time, the presidency believes that it will also be right to focus on the general wage trend. The Coronapandemic has brought great challenges to society. The Presidency believes that the wage increase for judges in the Supreme Court should not be greater than the wage increase for groups can compare with in 2020. The economic situation in the country makes it considered reasonable to give a wage increase equal to the percentage for the front-line frame. This corresponds to the increase in the salary of judges in courts of law on 1 October 2020. On this basis, we recommend the presidential option. With effect from 1 October 2020, the salary of the Judges of the Supreme Court is hereby determined as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e178	There is a need for some brief comments on the post now from the Presidentship of the Storting. Taking into account the actual wage developments in the upper ranking of the leaders of the state, the problem that the Storting has discussed very many times is that it is exactly the pay level in the state that has taken off. They have experienced a much higher wage increase than normal employees, not to mention those who have difficulties. That means that this one is doing here, is in conflict with what several parties have joined in and voted over in other cases where we have dealt with this on a general and principled basis. Besides, it's a percentage of a large number, and if you compare it to adding the same percentage to a small number, everyone knows that there's going to be a very big difference between the heads and the ears. And to say that it's equal to giving e.g. 3 pst. increase in wages and salaries starting to approach 2 million. NOK, and add the same percentage to the salary of an ordinary employee, who is now probably a place between NOK 400000 and NOK 500000, makes, of course, that those who have the most receive an incredible number of more dollars in salary increases. We don't live on percentages, we live on heads and ears. That's what you pay the rent, the electricity bill and your living quarters with. That's why it means the way to figure out how to increase the differences enormously, and that's what the majority of people and the presidency are now trying to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e185	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e202	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e209	We are now discussing a proposal for a representative promoted by representatives from several opposition parties, which proposes that a national hearing plan be drawn up. The proposal also refers to work done in the Directorate for Health, which has made clear recommendations that are now under consideration in the Department. Listening well is important. Too many people are saddened by the situation so that hearing becomes progressively worse when we get older, while others live their entire lives with poor hearing. For this group and for us who hear worse when we get older, it is important that there are tools and technologies that do not hinder the life each of us wants to live. The absence of a hearing plan now does not mean that the theme is not being worked on or that the measures are far from being taken. I am pleased with the work that has already been done by the Health Directorate, looking at services, tools and technologies that are available. We need all of this and that it works well, so that those who need help and organization get it. Then I notice that the Council of State wants to give priority to the resources of the ongoing work rather than starting a new investigation and new measures, and I support that. Involvement of those who themselves have experience or need an offer is always tricked. The fact that government councils will involve user organisations and the professional community in the future is good, and that is important. Too many people who lose hearing when you get old, technological aids are an extra challenge, which technology itself can suddenly be when everything is new and different from what you're used to. It is important that we ensure good training and follow-up, so that the tools that are intended to simplify everyday life actually do so. There are many important proposals and measures for review in the ministry, and many are looking forward to their implementation and to making it easier to be one who is struggling with hearing impairment in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e220	14.5 pst. of Norway’s population over 20 years of age has a hearing impairment that affects their daily lives, and among the consequences are social isolation and exclusion from education and working life. The World Health Organization has warned that over one billion young people are at risk of hearing damage because we are surrounded by so much noise and noise in modern society. There are significant social costs of hearing impairment and significant benefits from improved prevention and rehabilitation. NTNU Societal research concluded in the spring of 2018 a knowledge summary showing that hearing-impaired children and young people perform less professionally than their peers in school. We can't accept that. Hearing aids are available in all age groups and are a multiplicity of groups and are increasingly affected by hearing impairment. Some people need extensive rehabilitation, while others need facilities, aids and training to master their daily lives. The working party believes that there is a need for an overall plan for the hearing area to identify the need and develop measures that can contribute to the highest possible quality of life for hearing impaired people. The primary health message and the last two public health messages bring out people with hearing loss as a large patient group with rehabilitation needs. The phasing-out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation describes the provision of hearing impaired persons as ‘a little available’. The working party is concerned that the documented need does not meet with adequate mastering and rehabilitation measures to counteract the negative consequences of hearing loss. Like the Centre Party, SV, Red and the Green Party, we believe that a comprehensive plan for the provision of health care for hearing impaired people is important – which identifies the need for hearing care and proposes measures in the field of investigation, diagnosis, allocation of hearing equipment, follow-up, rehabilitation and mastering. I have been sitting in panel debates where several parties have promised this, but today they reject it. That is why I am promoting the proposals in the vote from a minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e233	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e238	There is a need to prevent hearing loss, improve the service provision of hearing impaired people and to use new tools and technologies to ensure a good supply for all users. This is why the Progress Party has supported a closer look at this, in cooperation with the user organisation and the professional community. The Minister for Health has informed the Committee that such an investigation has been carried out and that the measures are now under assessment in the Ministry. This includes, inter alia: Measures to increase the competence of municipalities, increase user mastery through better training, a review of legislation and guides, and as soon as the coronary apathy is over, the Minister of Health will implement this. When the Minister of Health states that a number of these measures will be implemented during 2021, and this is in cooperation with user organisations, we see no reason in the Progress Party to prevent further progress. A new investigation may lead to duplication and delay. We in the Progress Party are more concerned with action than with action plans, and therefore we support the government parties in this matter and vote to implement measures rather than to investigate new ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e247	Obstacle to the right is a pretty common condition that can have a huge impact on society and on that one. Loss of ability to communicate with others can lead to social isolation, and untreated hearing loss is associated with cognitive failure. Today, the availability of hearing aids is perceived as being unavailability. A hearing loss is usually not provided enough and not diagnosed early enough, and many with poor hearing are misdiagnosed with dementia. The Directorate of Health has now been given the task of making the supply of earphones available. It is also shown that with several older people, there will be more elderly people with reduced hearing and challenges that will require more of the healthcare services in the years to come. The Health Directorate points out in the report that the main features of today’s hearing supply should be maintained and that it is important to have a hearing home service – a service that takes care of the needs of users. A review of the responsibilities and content of the services is recommended, and the Directorate recommends that an interpretation be made by law, regulation or administrative action to achieve this. They point out that professionally strong earphones still have to have the primary responsibility for hearing care, and the need to adapt right-wing devices and more use of audiographs and ear-nose-neck contract practices. It is important to have local services, and ambulatory audiographs, permanent specialist health services and a strengthening of information and guidance material, such as e-learning and learning and mending courses are proposed. It is also recommended that systematic back-testing be carried out. The report shows that there is a great need for professional competence in municipalities. The centre party, like the other parties behind the proposal, believes that the hearing area needs a political commitment plan, also because this is a patient group and an area that has usually received too little attention. The report of the Health Directorate and their recommendations must be incorporated into a national hearing plan. When the council thinks there's no need for a national hearing plan and this could lead to a postponement of the follow-up to the Health Directorate report, I think that's a very bad argument. It is quite common for an action plan or strategy to be developed in other health areas, for the Health Directorate to be given the task of making its professional recommendations first. There is no need for a major new effort to produce a national hearing plan, as the basic work has already been done. What is missing is a visualisation of the political objectives of this work. When the Council of State states that the government will instead prioritize the follow-up to the current action from the Health Directorate's report, the question is: What are the current measures and what do the government think are not relevant measures by what the Health Directorate has recommended? So we don't get to know that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e266	Together with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Red Party and the Green Party, SV has proposed a national hearing plan. 14.5 pst. among the population of Norway, hearing is a major challenge. This applies to both the elderly and the young. It is sad that the Progress Party and the government parties do not support our proposal, but all the polls show that we will throw this government, so I have faith that it will be settled after the elections. SV, together with good advisors from the Norwegian Deaf Federation, has worked to get a national digital sign language interpreter watch system. SV will have an equivalent healthcare service. Persons who have hearing impairment and use sign language need health care as does everyone else. When these people need emergency care, they can't wait many hours, or sometimes a whole day, to get a sign language interpreter. That is why we need a digital watch regime. We are promoting proposals for a comprehensive plan for health care for hearing impaired people and a digital watch system for sign language interpreters throughout the country – throughout the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e277	Hearing loss is a health challenge that affects many people. We can prevent hearing loss through preventive action in many areas of society, and we need to develop varied offerings to those affected by hearing loss. This applies to both technical aids adapted to individual needs, interpreting assistance to conduct a conversation or to conducting studies and work and professional practical follow-up to those who experience hearing impairment. Audiographs, audio educators, ear-nose-neck doctors, hearing contacts and peers are important resources in this work. In the field of hearing, we have the experience of ensuring that the offer produces the best results if it takes account of the user’s needs, motivation and resources, and that stakeholders cooperate well on objectives, actions and follow-up. In my letter to the Committee, I said that I largely agree with the justification for a national hearing plan. The size has been concerned with the loss of sense in the treatment of primary health service messages, public health messages and lifelong living. The government wants to strengthen the prevention and treatment of sensory loss. The development of the population of several older people means that more people will have impaired hearing. This was the background for me asking the Health Directorate to put the emphasis on age-related hearing impairment in its investigation. The Health Directorate has cooperated with user organisations and made a number of proposals. The proposals concern, inter alia: on a review of legislation and guides, on strengthening the competence of the municipality and on changing the organisation of specialist health services. I will now consider how we will follow up these proposals. I agree with the rapporteurs that several aspects of the hearing offer are not covered by the directorate's proposal. Some of these areas are mentioned in the draft representative for a national hearing plan. National plans can provide important guidance for service development, but we must always consider whether and at what time we are going to start a national level work. It requires considerable resources and shall be possible to follow-up during the planning period. My assessment is that it is more appropriate now to deploy resources in more specific areas that can improve services than to start a new comprehensive investigation. This does not mean that it is excluded at a later stage from making a national hearing plan or for both vision and hearing. The work of the Health Directorate and many points in the draft representative may be considered as part of the basis for such a plan. However, I am pleased that the majority share my assessment of prioritising the proposals in the Directorate's investigation now. This is particularly true in a situation where the pandemic is seizing large resources in municipalities and specialist health services, but also in the Health Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e290	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e295	Today, there is up to 52 weeks waiting for the removal of hearing loss, i.e. one year, and there is an enormous amount of time to go with hearing loss that is not paid out. The question to the government council is what he sees should be the target of waiting time for the removal of hearing loss, and the time he sees one can achieve this goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e301	After all, it's a government target to reduce waiting times, and we've done that in a number of areas as well. I also believe that the work we are now going to do in this area should lead to reduced waiting times. That's one of the reasons why, among other things, The proposals we are now going to look at, from the Directorate, together with the user organisations, are to review the way this is organised in the specialist health service, and to look at how we can strengthen the competence of municipalities, so that more people can get faster help there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e306	The government didn't respond to what he thinks is an acceptable time for distribution. Today is a one-year waiting period. But I have another follow-up question, which goes on at the Council of State in response to the committee, that he should take further current measures from the report to the Health Directorate. Is it because some of these recommendations that the Council of State thinks are not relevant? I think it's important that you have a discussion about today, when we have this for treatment and discussion in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e313	As I also write in the letter to the committee, the ministry is going to have a meeting with the user organisations just to discuss what to prioritise, and what is important of the recommendations that have come from the directorate. It's a little too early for me to conclude that now, but I suggested in my post that this is especially about reviewing legislation and guides, strengthening the competence of the municipalities and looking at the organisation of this offer in the specialist health service, which are points we've drawn out, which are probably important. But what should be given priority in further work is important to discuss with user organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e320	SV, together with the Workers' Party, promotes a proposal: «The government is asked to develop a national digital watch system for available sign language interpreters throughout the year, minimum for health institutions both nationally and locally.» Why does the government, the right parties, not want to vote in favour of this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e330	Now it is the case that they are at Stortinget, who have to answer for what they vote for and not, but I would think this is about a lot of work going on right now to make the interpreter service digital, not only for hearing-impaired people, but also for many others. This is a major work being done, precisely to ensure that interpretation becomes more digitally available in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e335	Now I was very happy that you, the government, are working on it! Then I'd like to know, when is it coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e340	I haven't made that clear in my head right now, so someone might have to ask me a question about later.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e345	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e364	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e371	The Centre Party has proposed a new policy for financing and dimensioning public hospitals. There has been a good cooperation with all parties in this matter, and I thank you for that. We have worked with capacity needs and occupancy rates, preparedness and pandemics, political anchoring, financing model and employee involvement. We have received four recordings, from the Trade Union, the Norwegian Association of Nurses, the Medical Association and a report from several authors on hospital plans for Oslo. The councils have expressed their views on the proposals, and he advises the Storting not to support them. Five proposals were put forward by the Central Party. Now there are 13 proposals that show many changes that several parties want, but it does not appear that the proposals will have a majority. I take the word about what SV means, in another post, and I promote all the suggestions that SV is included in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e386	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e391	We have to learn from the hospitals we have built, and we have to plan the new hospitals far, far better. Ahus, Kalnes and Kirkenes are newly built hospitals that already had too little space on their way in. Kalnes had Corridor Asians from the first day and has worn it since. We're more people who share responsibility for it, and it's just such a confession that can make it better in the future. Concepts such as ‘dove’ and ‘continuance spaces’ have become common in the hospital corridors, wrote the Medical Association in a chronicle. The former are Corridor Asians who have to borrow the toilet from a patient who has received exclusive space. Fortification spaces are those that must lie together in a single space. The hospital Kalnes has received a dispensation from the Labour Inspectorate to have 2 patients in 47 of the single rooms. It is pressing, difficult to observe professional secrecy and challenging to the cleaners. Despite these measures, patients remain on the corridor. It is that over time the tasks have been larger than the appropriations, and the planning is unfortunately too poor. The new hospitals are planning to transfer more tasks and lay days to the municipalities, without the local authorities having resources, competences or taking part in the decision on which tasks can be transferred. The government is now introducing the health communities as a new interaction arena between municipalities and hospitals. If this is to be successful, interaction cannot be synonymous with the need for municipalities to arrange for hospitals to save money on construction. Using resources properly is about proper treatment at the right time. The health care tasks already facing us today are greater than the government and the Progress Party appropriations and what they have been willing to give priority to financing both construction and operations over the last eight years. If we are to ensure a good public health service, which under the current pandemic has had all the benefits and security in it, health must be given priority in the state budgets. But after eight years with the right parties in government, we know what they're prioritizing. The government is underfunded. It goes beyond the ability to invest wisely. This will be settled by the Workers' Party, and we will discuss new models of how to invest more lightly than today. We do not agree with all the comments made by the rapporteurs, but we are involved in several of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e402	It is a public responsibility to ensure good health and care services for all in Norway. It is one of the qualities of our country, a quality that this government has developed and developed through, among other things. shorter health cows and greater freedom of choice for patients. What should our future hospitals look like, and how many patients should there be room for? The health system is in a raging development, and we can hardly imagine what new tasks they are going to do in the future, and how a hospital can best be designed to provide an optimal offer. We can say a little bit about the future by looking to the past. 40–50 years ago, 20–25 doctors and nurses were present during a heart operation. The chest was opened, and the patient was subjected to major surgery. After the operation, there were many days as a patient before leaving home. Today, there may be three people doing the same job through a seemingly simple procedure that allows the patient to return home within a day or two. New treatments and new drugs have led to a halve of somatic beds, from around 22,000 to less than 11,000 over the last 40 years. The decline in the next few years is unlikely to be so extensive, but we also have to take into account that average life expectancy is increasing so much that we get new patient groups. The best Norway in the interaction between bureaucracy and policy has been developed by the Coronapandemic. The pandemic is full of evidence that bureaucracy is about to deal with professional issues and that policy is about to assess the whole picture. Similarly, when new hospitals are to be built, we have to rely on the professionals. Regional health establishments are the ones that are required to plan the future provision of services. Regional health establishments are competent to develop development plans and to assess future treatment and capacity needs. In 2014, Hospital Building HF was established, just to ensure the transfer of experience between hospital projects. It's really very strange that this wasn't established many years ago. Hospital construction HF shall evaluate previous projects to learn for the next construction project. This will develop capacity needs and standards calculations. I really hope that the Coronapandemic has taught us to be better at preparing society to face unpredictable events. Emergency planning is often translated for the benefit of day-to-day operations. New hospital buildings must be organized as far as possible for an unpredictable future. Hospitals under construction are better equipped to cope with major crises than today's hospitals are. They get more flexible solutions and other prerequisites to prevent infection than many of today's hospitals have. Politicians shall never forget where the professional competence lies. At the same time, there is no doubt as to who has the political responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e419	The lead party considers that the most important for the planning and dimensioning of new hospital buildings is that the calculations are based on expected demographic and epidemiological developments. At the same time, we cannot completely ignore the changes in treatment methods, efficiency and new technologies that exist and are guaranteed to come in the future. However, once capacity needs have been fully identified, the rest of the planning and development needs to be in line with the identified need. The Progress Party is also concerned that hospitals need to have a high focus on availability. This is important for both employees, patients and relatives and applies to both collective and parking spaces. We are not most concerned about whether hospital buildings are planned with a special coating percentage. We are concerned that hospital construction needs to be flexible and have room for expansion and restructuring, without any need to be rebuilt. But our hospitals also depend on enough specialists in all fields to make hospitals work optimally. The Progress Party will have a new funding model for hospitals, where large hospital investments are treated by the Stortinget and financed by the State budget in the same way as other state infrastructure. Only in this way can we ensure ourselves against a situation where hospitals have to scale down construction projects and reduce patient supply for savings purposes. The Progress Party will reduce regional health enterprises and allocate tasks between a national governance unit and individual health enterprises. The Progress Party believes effort-driven funding, ISF, stimulates cost-effective patient treatment. After nearly five years with an ISF rate of 50 pst. Good results can be seen, and we are promoting proposals to increase the proportion to 60 pst. The progress party assumes that employees are heavy within the planning of hospital buildings, throughout the process. The involvement of staff in the evaluation of new buildings is essential for the learning of future developments. Already in the first government declaration between the Right and the Advance Party, there was an intention to increase the use of contract specialists. The fasitium shows that the use has been more or less constant since 2008. Since contract specialists are a cost-effective part of the specialist health service and can provide greater availability and shorter waiting times, it is frustrating that health professionals do not follow up on the guidance signals they receive. In this case, the Progress Party, together with the Workers' Party, has made a proposal, which I have come to understand in retrospect is unclear. The idea of the proposal was to look at the aspects of the scheme that make health businesses not comply with the Minister of Health and the will of the Storting. Proposal No. 1 is therefore withdrawn and replaced by a loose proposal, which is promoted on behalf of the Progress Party, the Labour Party and the Centre Party. I am also addressing the other proposals that the Progress Party is promoting in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e438	The representative, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, has then drawn up a proposal and has taken up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e443	It is a political responsibility to ensure that hospitals are built with enough capacity. Kalne's hospital is not a prime example. The evaluation report pointed to the lack of bed places that provide an accumulation of patients in the emergency room, higher costs and poor patient safety. We have to learn from errors that have happened, learn from errors from Eastfold, Aarhus, Kirkenes, which are repeated in the plans for new OUS, new Drammen, Mjøssjukehuset, new build in Førde, new Hammerfest – to name someone. Since 1980, the number of somatic hospitals has been halved, but evolution does not stop. Keep going. Despite the zero vision for Corridor Asians, thousands of patients are on the way in Norwegian hospitals. The Health Inspectorate has now been involved in the supervision of so-called outsourced patients, for which there is no room in its own department, because this poses an irresponsible risk to several Norwegian hospitals today. In 2014, Sjukehusbyg HF was created. The aim was to build up a national competence environment for construction projects in the specialist services, including: to allow new construction projects to be based on experience from previous projects, but it does not appear to be happening. The creation of this health care provider has not solved this problem. New hospitals are now systematically planned and built with unrealistic requirements for improving efficiency and reducing daily treatment and remittance to municipalities, so that hospital capacity is actually being reduced. Hospital construction has developed a model to calculate future activity and thus future capacity needs in hospitals. The model is based on population projections and activity figures, but the model opens up that businesses can input change factors into the calculations. In practice, this means that health professionals plan new hospitals based on the expectations of operational efficiency improvement and that more tasks should be transferred to municipalities. The centre party today suggests that this model needs to be changed, but we have only got SV on this proposal. The pre-accession reform was adopted in 2001 and introduced in 2002. This meant that health professionals were required to comply with the accounting law. Thus, in the case of large investments, companies will have to pay a 30 pst part. to apply for loans from the State for the remaining 70 pst. This capital and the payment of interest and loan payments after the hospital has been built must be represented by the fact that hospital care must be paid in excess. When health professionals are unable to streamline operations as much as they need to achieve such surpluses, there is a number of examples of building projects being scaled down in the process. The Centre Party will have a new model for financing hospital investment where there is a distinction between investment and operation and where large hospital investments are dealt with by the Stortinget through the National Health and Hospital Plan and fully funded over the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e458	Health crises underline the need to strengthen public health services that offer equal offers to all regardless of the thickness of the wallet and where they live. Our hospitals are vulnerable. We need to increase the capacity of hospitals, and then we also need to become more self-sufficient in medicines, infective equipment and vaccines. New hospital buildings, built with few beds, few rooms and low capacity, go beyond health care. Around the country, people have had to fight for their local hospital, for their maternity ward. A health company recently decided to oppose the decision to close the food supply in Kristiansund. Despite the fact that six out of ten people in the region say no, another healthcare company will put down three hospitals in Finland. In Oslo, the decision to lay down Ullevål Hospital has met clear resistance from both trade unions and the majority of people in the city. It is the health enterprise model that is the underlying problem — the fact that hospitals are managed more according to the bottom line and less according to patients’ needs. In all those hospital struggles, Red stands with the population of hospitals and against the health business model. That model was made under the Share Act in order for hospitals to be managed according to company economic objectives, but hospitals are not an enterprise. Employees are overworked and feel that they have little influence over their own working life. Red will liquidate the health business model. We believe that hospitals should be organised as government agencies, not as business-economies. Control and management levels need to be reduced and health prostheses strengthened. Important functions such as cleaning must be part of the hospital’s core activities and must not be put on the market. The practice of coded diagnosis and treatment, and given a fixed price, makes some patients more profitable. This will end Red. We will replace input-driven funding by 100 pst. framework financing. Economically motivated efficiency, centralisation and privatisation are weakening preparedness, and more and more parts of the country are rising towards the directorial field of health businesses – from Helgeland to the Inland, from Northern Ireland to Oslo. Red jobs to give power over the health care system back to the population and the elected people. In this way, we also ensure the closeness of the residents to the hospital service.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e471	It is the task of health regions to plan for the future service provision and to ensure that this is done within the political framework and leadership. This is why we have established our national health and hospital plan as an overall management tool. Since the first plan was adopted at Stortinget in 2016, regional and local development plans have been developed to further develop the patient’s healthcare service in line with the Stortinge decision. The plans are drawn up in the light of the need for capacity and staffing. This forms the basis for the development of professional activities, services, buildings, equipment and ICT. These measures need to be considered in the context of the development of hospitals for the benefit of patients. A division of responsibility between investment and operation, as proposed by the representative here, will lead to a powdering of responsibilities and poor coherence between the various factors that are essential for the development of a good supply for patients. Regardless of the choice of management and funding system, priority is given to resources that are essential. Health business development plans have developed systems to see different actions in a context, which in turn provides a good basis for just good priorities. In recent years, health companies have been giving very high priority to investment, and hospitals are being upgraded and built across the country. Upgraded hospital buildings – the necessary technical solutions and equipment – are a prerequisite for the proper further functioning of hospitals. We are all concerned with realising a healthcare service with the necessary capacity. We have over several years learned that the activity in hospitals in Norway is rising while the number of beds is falling. So how are hospitals supposed to plan for the future? The answer depends on many aspects and needs to be seen in the context. This is a system test in a separate projection model. In this work, health care businesses need to take into account that we are growing more and that we are getting older. At the same time, technologies and improved work processes allow for treatments that provide shorter bedtime, for more people to receive day and outpatient treatment, and for more treatment to take place outside hospitals. There are now also 19 health communities, where municipalities and hospitals work together to develop services, including: for closer follow-up of chronic sick and elderly with complex needs for services. The objective is early intervention and prevention of disease development, which will also help to reduce hospitalisation. At the same time, I am concerned that all patients should feel safe and well-kept, regardless of whether treatment takes place inside or outside hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e491	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e496	VG reported in the autumn of 2019 about 1,546 old patients who were sent home from the hospital in the middle of the night. 400 of these were over 90 years of age. Over the next 20 years, the number of older people is doubled, increasing the need for acute bed places. According to Health Atlas for Norway, KAD beds in municipalities will not be able to repair. That's what we debated before the pandemic hit. Now it is even more obvious that the bed capacity is vulnerable. The Minister of Health has been sitting for eight years. It could be eight years when we prepared well for this growth in need of safe health care. It hasn't happened. New hospitals are planning for fewer beds than we have today, and it will also be difficult to resolve this greater need we get in the years that are coming, with new hospital buildings. That's where I follow the Council of State a long way. So where is it the Council of State believes that we can expand increased capacity to meet the need for more good enough hospitals to treat very ill patients, as it is well documented that this will be discussed?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e503	It is precisely the factors that are introduced into the models used when dimensionalising hospitals for the future. It's today's activity, it's linked to the population projections from the SSB, there's different factors related to changes, such as: in medical development, technological development, patient expectations, etc., that is the proportion of day and outpatient treatment, and then, of course, also adds to coating rates and land standards. It is also dimensioned on the basis of the hospitals that are now being built. Of course, the factors that the representative here addresses are included. Then one also learns from previous construction projects, not least through the fact that we have established Hospital Buildings as a separate health company. For example, now the board of Health South-East has decided that they are now using 85 pst. the occupancy rate of all its projects and not 90 pst., as they did when they planned the hospital in Eastfold, under the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e510	My question went to the increased need. The premise is that we can't build new hospitals to handle it. Where new hospitals are planned, it must be handled in a model as described by the Minister of Health, but for example. St. Olavs, who is the regional hospital in Trøndelag, where I come from, will need an increased need for 200 new beds they don't have. How is this need to be resolved? This will apply to all the areas where hospitals are already there and where new hospital buildings are not planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e515	It's not like we're just increasing the offer by building brand-new hospitals. One may extend existing hospitals, one may make changes to existing hospitals. Those who have the best assumptions for making those assessments are those who have the overview locally. They know that if there is large investment, they can promote it as investment plans for the ministry and the government. Smaller investment plans they manage themselves within the financial framework they have. They themselves have the responsibility to plan at all times for what is the future need in the future, but within the model we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e520	In mission documents from the Council of State in the last seven years, he has focused on, for example: psychiatrybulances, mental health and drug use under the ‘golden rule’, not to lay down rehabilitation sites until the municipality has developed similar offers, and to increase the proportion of contract specialists. None of this has been followed up in line with the mandates given by the Minister of Health himself. Is the Minister for Health satisfied with his own influence and influence?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e525	Yes, I am, because I believe that in all the areas that the representative here is drawing on, positive things have happened. We have high ambitions for this. It is not always that the high ambitions are reached, but that it goes in the right direction, I think there is no doubt about it. It is clear that in the individual changes that occur, this is likely to be experienced as closures, or that it is the type of word used, while in reality there are often other and new ways of making offers, such as: that there is more day-to-day provision, teamwork, together with municipalities, than traditional day-to-day provision. It's also in line with what a gett of knowledge of what actually produces the best results for patients. A very good example of that is what has happened in the context of coercive disorders, where we see that many patients now get very good and quick help on things that they previously had for a long time without really getting good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e532	The Council of State is a defender of today's system when it applies both to the model used to calculate the needs of Hospital Building HF and today's funding model. But when we see what has happened historically to the construction of new hospitals, and what is planned now, we have seen in a number of examples that it is being built too little, that square meters are being taken down – not because of professional arguments, but because of economics. This applies to Eastfold, Ahus, new Drammen, Hammerfest, Churchnes, Førde, Inland – everywhere. So my question to the Council of State is: Is the Council of State happy with this development, and does he take responsibility for the fact that what is happening now is for the benefit of Norwegian patients in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e539	A number of the construction projects that the representative here is drawing out are not finished yet, so I'm a little surprised that someone is drawing the kind of fantastic conclusions of the experience. It is absolutely right that what you have experience with is the Hospital Eastfold in Kalnes, and we agree that not least since one did not realize the beds planned in Moss, it has contributed to greater challenges there than what was intended. But there have been consequences for the planning of other hospitals. I have to say that I think one here draws very rapid conclusions on projects we haven't implemented yet. Some of them are under construction, and others are under construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e544	‘We want to put regional health businesses down, establish a national health and hospital plan and strengthen local governments.’ I could have said it, but it's Bent Höie who said it. The Legion agreed with Höie before. They now agree with the Swedish authorities on the removal of regional health businesses. Why does the Council of State disagree with the Medical Association, and why has Höie changed his point of view, without following what the Medical Association believes?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e551	Now probably the representative will experience time and time again that I don't always agree with the Medical Association, so I don't think we should say so that the standard is that those who are right are those who agree with the Medical Association, because then I don't think we can balance different considerations, if you just listen to one professional organisation. So it's probably like two out of three of the elements that the representative drew out in the quote from me are implemented. We have established a national health and hospital plan, which has ensured that the Stortinget has a completely different political direction in the direction of the specialist health service, and we have also, in my view, strengthened the role of local health company boards in this work. Not least, the establishment of health communities will be further strengthened, where municipalities are far more able to control the common planning of the development of specialist health services. As for health regions, I went into the government with the assumption that I would put them down, but I was also concerned that we should do that, we had to find a credible alternative. It was investigated, and none of the alternatives that emerged there appeared to be particularly better, especially in order to ensure more local influence. They would mean, almost everyone, centralization of decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e561	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e568	We have had major problems with new hospital buildings, such as Kalnes in Østfold. It has been built too little. The consequences are overcoating and corridor Asians. I am very concerned about new hospital buildings, such as Hammerfest, Drammen, Gaustad and the new hospital in More and Romesdal. These decisions will follow us for many decades if we don't build larger hospitals. We suggest that new hospitals should always have a maximum occupancy rate of 85 pst, which is in line with international recommendations. We should have learned in this pandemic that we should never build hospitals with so little space, but it is clear that the Progress Party and the government parties have not learned, since they do not support the proposal. We have another problem, which is the funding mechanism, with investment and operation in the same budget. Hospitals need to take money from operations to build new hospitals. Then we know that hospitals need to scale down construction projects and reduce patient supply to save. The Progress Party and the Centre Party support the proposal that SV promotes the separation of operations and investment so that large hospital investments are fully financed in the State budget. We could have had a majority in this case, but the Labour Party fails on the finish line and follows the Right. The model of health enterprises is expensive, top-notch and bureaucratic. SV believes that we need to take responsibility and have democratic control over hospitals with local and practical management and participation for employees. Kjerkol from the Workers' Party has said that they want to ‘ridden’ in the health company model, but it seems that the Workers' Party only shakes off voters who go to the SV and the Center Party, who want a modern hospital policy. SV is growing, and this fight is not over. There is an important message for the voters. Those who vote in red who want a health company model can vote in favour of the Workers' Party. Those who want a new, modern hospital policy can vote for the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e581	‘Steam course’ has been a well-known slogan for many years, and in many cases it can be a good slogan. But if you see an iceberg or a cutting in front of you, you might also want to adjust the course. Several have been involved in the construction of beds within the somatic area in the last decades. I want to talk about psychiatry, which since the 1960s has had four out of five beds removed, while the population has increased considerably. First of all, in very many cases it has been a step forward, because you have been able to provide better treatment without adding people over a longer period of time. At the same time, maybe at some point you come to a point where you have to stop and ask, can you give the help that people need, good enough for those who have the greatest needs? The right-wing representative, Mr. Erlend Larsen, was concerned about the competence of regional health companies. Yes, they have a lot of competence. At the same time, however, hospitals will be challenged on dimensioning, on economics and on political signals. As the representative was also involved, it is that we, government and big business, have the political responsibility for how we administer our hospitals. Then I'm particularly concerned about mental health protection. The NRK had a case from Sandviken Hospital in Bergen some time ago, where the headline was that they put 328 mentally ill patients in the corridor because the alternative was worse – it would be worse if the patients had ended up taking their life because they didn't have room. Kalnes opened in 2015. There we reduced the number of beds in psychiatry from 200 to 90. Trustees now tell of chronic overburdens and patients who need to sleep in offices. Patients who need to sleep in offices do not get the very best treatment, they do not get a message from society that there is room for them, and that they are being followed up in a good way. My local, Agderposten, this week had a case about increasing the number of missions of the police and ambulance and told of a patrol that had run around on a suicidal person for six hours while waiting for psychiatric help. You don't get well or better if you don't get the help you need, or if you get printed out too early because it's not capacity. You have to be careful to see too much connection, but we had very high suicide rates both in 2018 and 2019. This at least shows that we have not succeeded in the field as we have succeeded in traffic in reducing the number of deaths. Then we have to be willing to ask ourselves the question of whether the course needs to be adjusted in terms of the dimensioning of our hospitals also within the psychiatry. That question is the Workers' Party willing to ask and willing to follow up. Unfortunately, the Government and the Advancement Party are not the same in this matter today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e594	I thank you for this representative proposal, because it gives us reason to debate hospital financing and hospital structure – the health company model. It is good that we regularly come back to that debate, and if it is up to me – and that is to some extent in connection with the Left's draft Grand Prix programme for the next period – we will come back to an opportunity to debate the business model on a thorough basis. When I take the word, it's really to say that rhetoric in this context is very important. To claim that things in Norwegian health care are chronically underfunded, which the Workers' Party uses to do, I believe is grossly wrong. Here, therefore, the members of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party in the committee position repeat that in their alternative budget for 2021, the Labour Party proposed to strengthen the hospital budget by 1 billion. kr. It's actually completely wrong. If you look at the layout of the alternative state budget, the difference is 270 million. kr. It represents, after a rapid headcount, a difference of approximately 0,15 per million in relation to the budgetary agreement reached between the Government Parties. So 0.15 per million is the difference between armageddon and the high sky that the Workers' Party is trying to cover its hospital budget. I think that's a strange presentation. I hope that in the future we can avoid reusing these expressions. So with this humiliating remark, I would like to ask for a small price adjustment of the rhetoric that the Workers' Party in particular has used when it comes to the financing of Norwegian hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e603	I just want to make an explanation of vote. First of all, I should like to make a few comments. 14, from the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party: increasing the proportion of contract specialists should not be an end in itself. We believe that any increase in use should be linked to needs, not just to increase. This proposal could have been good, but it is not good enough. We have to vote against it, because there's nothing to say about what the contract specialists are going to use for. In addition: SV vote secondary for proposal No. 10 whose proposal No. Four is falling.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e612	Norway has skilled professionals and good hospitals today, but what is sustainable health policy? We say health and care, but health policy is driven by the economy and efficiency. It's called the patient in focus, but it's perceived as an economy in focus. We're really starting to see how the health care model works in practice, with contractions, cuts and closures, and it's a handful of people who decide. Politicians have gradually been removed from hospital administration, and the municipalities, where patients live, are not sufficiently involved in what is happening around hospital development. There are several people here in the hall today who have said that we have to learn from our failures, and I want to take an example. The hospital Inland has been in the so-called queue long before hospital investment in Health South-East, but savings began several years ago, and the so-called target image is a shattered compromise, with one main hospital with a collection of somatic and psychiatry and an investment framework of approximately 9 B.C.E. to be financed from operations of several hundred million per year. So the target image was changed, without so many being involved in it. There's still one main hospital, but the investment frame is still $9 billion. For one hospital. In addition, there is one small and one slightly larger emergency hospital and one elective – with good foundations for it. But these hospitals shouldn't be in the investment frame. No, then there will have to be additional operational savings to manage maintenance and necessary investments. When one then knows it needs to be saved on operation for 30 pst. of self-financing and 70 pst. of which interest is to be paid to the State and that bed capacity falls within both somatic and psychiatry will go further beyond patient provision. It was to be invested in local medical centres with decentralised specialist health services and prehospital services, only we went for one main hospital – centralize to decentralize. The 9-billion-dollar investment frame. In no way is it possible to win in Lotto, and patients in the Home country are already noticing that depression is tough, especially in the area of psychiatry and lung treatment. In 2012 it was the interaction reform. Now it's called the Health Community. Those are fine words and certainly good intentions, but health professionals only have their own economy to take care of and no financial responsibility for how this affects the community health service. Sickhouses are planned with an economy in focus, not real needs, savings are the municipalities that have to cover, and the stress will be noticed by the patients. We only see the beginning of this if we don't get to make changes. Nothing can grow into heaven, but no patient becomes healthier by fewer offers and fewer beds. We have a responsibility to cover that need – at the right level.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e627	I would like to point out to the representative of Hoves that health companies do not only have their own economy to take into account, health companies should take into account the patients they are set to serve. It's the patients we're talking about, not the money, and the health care companies have a care-care responsibility for the patients in their region. When you first talk about money, we were able to read in the NRK last week that Health-Norway waters in money – Health-Norway waters in money. It must be awkward to stand here and talk about underfinancing, while the NRK writes that Health-Norway is watering in money. Either the opposition does not read the NRK, or the NRK is wrong. So there's a lot of talk about the system, it's about health companies. Of course they're going to be put under a critical light, that's our job, but this isn't static. I think the Workers' Party says it's fine; they've gone to the health company model, but they want to make some adjustments. We've also done that – we've adjusted, we've made changes by setting up our own companies in IT, in construction and other things. Big changes have been made along the way, the model is being developed. Those who call for the closure of the business model will return to a regional model with independent hospitals, quite similar to that before 2001. They must take into account that such a model will be a major need for a strong state to deal with when it fails – there will be less coordination. Regional health enterprises have an important role to play in coordinating practices in their region. It will go beyond priorities, and we will have sub-optimisation of treatment, where the RHFs play an important role in planning and dimensioning. So to proposal No. 14. from the Progress Party: This is a good proposal. Proposal No. 1, which has now been drawn into the debate, was not quite as good. We choose to support this proposal to contribute to the increased use of contract specialists in health businesses. That's good right-wing policy, and it's also good Christian People's Party and Left policy. That is why we support it. And then I'm kind of messing with the representative Wilkinson, who thought this was a bad proposal, and he's wondering what to use the contract specialists for. You almost have to be an SV politician to think about what more contract specialists are going to do. Of course, you have to use them to treat patients. For one reason — treatment of patients — including contract specialists is available to all those working in the healthcare system. We need more, and a wise man once said they're the unscrewed diamond of healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e642	I have to correct myself before the opposition looks at my percentageing skills. I was made aware that I said 0.15 per million. So the right thing is between one per million and two per million. But it's still below the per mill limit, so I hope the hall can excuse me. Just to follow up on what the representative from Stensland just said: yes, hospitals are watering in money. The number referred to in this article is that our hospitals, the regional health companies, seem to be going with 6 billion. in profit for 2020. The working party's difference from what was presented in the budget agreement is 270 million. kr. So the hospitals are going to be $6 billion. kr in profit. Now I'm afraid not to count more percent, but the working party's 270 million. kr represents approximately 5 pst. of that surplus.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e649	It is really nice to hear representatives from the Central Party complain about the sub-financing of the healthcare system when we know at the same time that it is the Centre party that has the lowest budget proposal for the healthcare sector. The draft budget of the Central Party was 1.5 billion. kr lower than that adopted by the majority parties Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e654	There are several things that have been said here as I will comment, as the last one: that we have the lowest hospital budget. It actually seemed to me that the Right should stop saying, because they know it's wrong, they know that this is about us taking state funding of the care of the elderly again to the municipalities. If you take care of it, this is completely wrong, and I thought they could end up in these debates. When it comes to Sjukehus-Noreg watering in money, I found it a little special to go into a general debate about hospital economy – when we are in a pandemic, and one of course has given hospitals money to deal with that crisis. That they haven't spent all of this money, I actually don't know if there's any reason to shout for it. It may also be that there are many patients out there who should have been hospitalized and treated, who have now for various reasons not visited health services, so one should be a little cautious about using it also as a cheap political point. We're talking about how the situation in Health-Noreg in hospitals has been before the Corona, and we've got a lot of feedback from the hospital that it's demanding to get the budget going. When it comes to the proposals in question, I was criticized by the Council of State: we must not talk about hospitals from which we do not have experience. We're referring to planes. I thought we had to look at the plans, they're public, and they're building hospitals. In the Drammen, an area of 28 000 square metres from what was planned, New Hammerfest cuts with 42 000 square metres, the new health hospital in Health More and Romesdal cuts with 20,000 square metres, Inland plans with far fewer beds than today in mental health protection, and New Oslo University Hospitals will, once completed, transfer 140 000 days of lying to the municipalities or through efficiency. Of course, this is where we can influence, it's too late to jump when hospitals are built, so here's a lesson of failure. So to the Workers' Party and to the representative of Morland, who is sincerely engaged in psychiatry and the construction of bed places in psychiatry. In particular, the Labour Party, for the first time, is not in favour of our proposal to change the model after which hospitals are dimensioned today through Hospital Building HF, which just facilitates a downsizing of daily capacity because a requirement for more efficient inclusion in the model. It is also strange that the Labour Party does not vote for our proposal to separate investment and operations, when we know that the way to fund hospitals is just to facilitate one's cutting off because hospitals have to go with excess, and in normal years it's actually very demanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e667	I just have to answer Sveinung Stensland from the Right about contract specialists. There is nothing on which we are going to purchase. SV has fought to get a health crisis package for the mentally ill. Höie did not answer the question from SV yesterday about getting a mental health crisis package, for which we want to fight. SV is very much to use contract specialists to buy more psychologists and psychiatrists. I ask the other members of the Health and Care Committee that we give priority to psychologists and psychiatrists. Then the government has the entire health and care committee in place, because then we can support it. But we do not support this proposal, because it is very abstract. It's just increasing without seeing which patients need it the most. For us, we need more psychiatrists and more psychologists.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e675	I agree with Wilkinson: we need more psychologists and psychiatrists, and I hope that one will use this opportunity to increase the number of contract specialists in that field. Kjersti Toppe accuses us of running with cheap points. When Kjersti Toppe accuses one of the cheap points, a listener shall carefully. The centre party has the lowest hospital budget. There's nothing to discuss. Yes, they've transferred some money to the municipality, and in the case of the hospital budget, they've increased the pot by a few hundred million, but it's locked up for emergency medical services, for ambulance transport. At the same time, they are the party that runs all over the country and promises gold and green forests. The math doesn't go up. That's the story of cheap points, because it's not funded. Only the proposal or requirement for a statutory withdrawal period for ambulances consumes the whole increase to the Central Party in their alternative budget. So don't come here with cheap points -- they have plenty of them even in the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e684	It is not nice that the Labour Party is voting in favour of the Labour Party's policy. If we had the Hospital Policy of the Center Party, we would have voted in favour of the Hospital Policy of the Center Party – but we do not. We have gone to the elections on a different policy, and the proposal to which the representative Kjersti Toppe referred, which causes her to accuse other representatives of suspecting the centre party and the priorities of the centre party, is a proposal which the Labour Party is opposed to. We are opposed to centralising the power of Hospital-Norway to Oslo. We are opposed to a national transport plan for hospital buildings. Look at the national transport level, it's worth looking at it. It has almost no projects north of Dovre – no projects north of Trøndelag, because I found out that we have someone in Trøndelag. But look at Health Nord, which comes out of a long period of new hospital construction. It's because it's Health Nord that decides the hospital investments. It's decided in the northern part of the country how to spend the money they get from the Storting. The centralization of power that the Central Party stands for here, we protest against in the Workers' Party. We're protesting against it, because if you take it in here and take the power from the Nordics to prioritize themselves, it's the meat weight that decides, and then we also see that we get a accumulation of investments where most people live.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e691	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e696	First, an explanation of vote. If proposal No 4 in the vote, we can vote in a subsidiary way for the Progress Party's proposal No. 10th@item: inlistbox The centre party is behind the proposal for contract specialists, it's also a good centre party policy because contract specialists have an agreement with the public health service, and there's a big difference between it and commercial actors. To the representative of Mr Kjerkol: It is clear that the Labour Party is promoting the Labour Party's policy. There may be a change to it after the option is given. I see that there are major discussions in the Working Party on the health care model, especially in More and Romesdal. My point is that one is critical that there is a reduction in bed places, among other things. in the construction of new hospitals. I think we have measures to do this – we have a common goal – and that is what we are proposing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e703	This is perhaps more of a line to the representative of Stensland, who says that the Center Party is jumping around and making shillings, as we say in Skåk. Now the Prime Minister announced that the government would use 20 billion. Every year for five years in new hospital buildings, but it is a fact of fact with modifications. Because that is what we are discussing here: who is it that pays for the investments? That's what Sjukehus-Noreg notices now, and many municipalities are starting to worry about who actually has to pay the price for those investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e710	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e715	The representative Toppe must actually end up with this kind of strawman argumentation and rather sweep for his own door. If you want more hospital investment, the Centre Party should vote for the Hospital Budget of the Workers Party throughout this entire period in which we have provided alternative budgets. It would give many more billions to invest in hospitals. And to the small greeting of my party traps in More and Romesdal: Yes, the party traps in More and Romesdal have made proposals for the national meeting and for the programme committee to the Workers' Party, and they have been passed. They're very pleased. It's one of their greatest victories. I recommend reading the Workers' Party's program, and then we get to negotiate with the Center Party to spend more money in hospitals when we have won the election. Here I hope the Center Party listens.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e722	The representative, Erlend Larsen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e727	Of course, it was incalculable for me to compare the numbers of the Central Party and the majority parties in the entire health budget. I should stick to the budgets of regional health companies, because that's all, after all, where the hospital budgets are. There was no difference between the Central Party and the majority parties of 1.5 billion. DKr, but it's $1.9 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e732	The representative, Carl-Erik Grimstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e737	Very briefly, this debate gives me a reason to point out the point of the contract specialists. They are actually the best example we have of the fact that a decentralised civil policy actually works, for example. by making the decision-makers refer more frequently to contract specialists than to hospitals, and that contract specialists in many ways provide the best healthcare system near where people live. There's at least one position left behind. I am very pleased that this solution proposal came up, so it gives us an opportunity to vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e743	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e760	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e767	In this case, we are going to consider a proposal from seven representatives of the Progress Party. The document promotes 16 different proposals for a more liberal alcohol policy, including: sale in groceries, VAT exemption where there are taste samples, open to taste samples before 1 p.m. 13, permit the placing on the market of non-alcoholic beer with the brewery’s logo and any distinctions, as well as other measures to facilitate the sale of alcohol from small producers and other liberalising measures for alcohol sales. The Committee has received five written submissions. Two of them stress that increased consumption leads to increased alcohol-related harm and increased cancer burden in the population. Three of the recordings come from industry, which also does not support all of the 16 proposals we have to deal with. The industry also points to alcohol policy and health policy arguments when they reject several of the proposals, which show that they take responsibility. In its comments on the proposals, the Council of State notes that alcohol consumption is one of the main risk factors for the loss of healthy years of life in the population. He also writes that the government will continue the main lines of today's alcohol policy, as is the result of the Granavolden platform. It is worth noting that alcohol is among the most important risk factors for non-infectious diseases and that a reduction in alcohol consumption is among the recommended means of reducing the number of people who die prematurely. The World Health Organisation has set a global target of reducing the harmful consumption of alcohol by 10 pst. by 2025. This is also a goal we have set in Norway. The Council of State writes that, among the 16 proposals of the proposal for a representative, one will lead to VAT exemptions we do not have on other goods, three proposals that break with the Granavolden platform, five proposals that violate a legal assessment of the EEA legal basis for our wine monopoly, and six proposals that will increase the availability or total consumption of alcoholic beverages. One of the proposals can be implemented and is already under consideration in the Department. Among the 16 proposals, the Committee has agreed to support an adjusted version of one of them. The Committee recommends that changes be made to the procurement regulation with the aim of increasing the range of locally produced goods on each sale. The Committee considers that this proposal does not involve the liberalisation of alcohol policy and supports the intention to make it easier for local products to become available through the Wine Monopoly. Today, there are about 20 craft distillers in Norway, many of whom gain international recognition for their quality products. Local beer production has become popular. Today there are about 120 small scale breweries in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e788	Today we are dealing with a matter that could have threatened the wine monopoly regime. The working party supports this scheme and therefore sees no possibility of joining in on any of the proposals that are being promoted today. However, I choose to make a comment on the solution proposed by SV today. It is about following up the restaurants that do not comply with the labour-environment law or with the wage-fixed rate. It is clear that the Labour Party is concerned with good working conditions and setting wages, but the instrument for this is currently in the municipalities, and they provide feedback on, for example, the following: the dot load system works well. So this is up to the individual municipality to follow, and we get feedback on how it works. If you find pay entitlement or a breach of the Work Environment Act, the restaurant and grant holder will have the opportunity to follow it up within specified time limits. Finally, I would like to remind the Council of State that the Stortinget has adopted content labelling and health information requirements for alcoholic beverages, and I hope it is work that is still prioritized and speeded up, adopted a decision of 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e797	Norwegian beverage producers deliver world-class quality products. It is unfortunately a well-kept secret, because manufacturers are not allowed to tell us about it. Following the closure by the State of its monopoly on alcohol production in 2005, several Norwegian entrepreneurs have established distillery in Norway. Today, there are about 20 handicraft distillers that each produce unique Norwegian products we in the Progress Party think we should be proud of. The Norwegian Brennery in Grimstad is not allowed to sell pages at its production site because the apples are harvested from local garden owners and not farmers. That doesn't make any sense. It is a tradition back to 1936 that local garden owners in Grimstad deliver apples here, and a tradition that the Norwegian Brennery does not want to give up. The Progress Party therefore proposes to clear up the legislation so that they are also allowed to sell pages from their production premises. A nutritious and sensible alcohol policy should facilitate the sale of its products by several Norwegian entrepreneurs in Norway and be allowed to provide product information to their customers on ratings and quality stamps. This applies, for example: Vidad from Oslo Craft distillery, which has been awarded the world’s best gin, but is not allowed to notice it – or Aurora Spirit in Lyngen, the world’s northernmost distillery, which has limited opportunity to accept tourists due to a rigid code that defines the time of day they are allowed to offer taste experiences for their products. They are also not allowed to sell mini bottles as souvenirs to their visitors. In this case, the Progress Party has made 26 proposals, all of which are very good. I have to realize that we can't move mountains in the alcohol business this time, but I guess the other parties will see the logical and reasonable in this eventually. We have to take the wins we get. Today, hopefully, all parties will support the proposal that the wine monopoly in Norway should consume locally produced drinks. Norwegian gin, whisky, akevitt and beers produced on local raw materials with local labour force, which create jobs in the districts and have won a lot of international recognition, are now finally secured shelf space and a market to sell their products in, including here in Norway. The starting point for such a model can be seen at Systembolaget in Sweden, which has defined that a system company has an obligation to include local products within a given geographical radius. This needs to be adapted to Norwegian conditions. The criteria must, of course, be objective. It will mean that Oslo Handicraft distillery, which today has its gin defined as a locally produced product in Sweden, can also get the definition as a local product here in Oslo. With that, I would like to address all the good proposals put forward by the Progress Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e812	The representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e817	Alcohol is a legal product, but not a regular product. Alcohol leads to loss of fresh livers and is a risk factor for many diseases. It is well documented that increasing the availability of alcohol increases the consumption of both those who drank frequently and those who drank rarely. When total alcohol consumption increases, the extent of health damage related to alcohol use will also increase. The turnover of alcoholic beverages in Norway is regulated by law. The regulation of the introduction and placing on the market of alcoholic beverages in the alcohol laws aims to limit to the greatest possible extent the social and individual harms that alcohol use can cause. As part of this, the laws aim to limit the consumption of alcoholic beverages. Before commenting on the proposals of the Progress Party, it is important to remember that on 20 November 2018 the Stortinget took several important decisions on alcohol policy: on a national alcohol strategy describing how the alcohol policy objectives of reducing alcohol use are to be achieved and submitted to the Storting setting up a public selection to assess the large social costs of alcohol for society, working life, individuals and their families to ask the Government to make proposals to the Storting to introduce requirements for the labelling of alcoholic beverages on a labelling scheme for alcoholic beverages with health warnings linked to pregnancy and in connection with driving I want to take advantage of the opportunity to ask the Council of State, and for that part also the Christian People's Party, who was in opposition and got through these important proposals: Where is the follow-up? When does the alcohol strategy come? Why isn't a public selection set down, and why don't we see any of the markings? What's going on? It is great that the government party does not support its proposals in this matter, but there is reason to ask what they themselves have done to follow up the Storting's alcohol policy decisions from 2018. The Progress Party makes several proposals that they refer to as a nutrition-friendly and sensible alcohol policy. I thought the suggestions were neither friendly nor reasonable. There is one exception, and that applies to the proposal that the monopoly of wine must offer more locally produced goods. The other proposals from the Progress Party could either threaten the wine monopoly regime, increase availability, lower prices or liberalize the rules of advertising for alcohol, so that they vote against the Central Party. The SV's loose proposal to ask the government in the regulation states that serving places that break the work environment law or offer wages under a public tariff are to be subject to a grant of donations: this is a very important proposal. We're a little uncertain about whether it's right to bind this against the alcohol laws and would like to ask the Council of State to figure out how the practice is in the municipalities today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e847	SV believes that alcohol policy must be responsible, knowledge-based and restrictive. Price and charge are the main measures to reduce alcohol damage. SV is opposed to the agreement with the Advance Party and the government parties to prioritize the money for cheap alcohol when we could have used it for, for example. The mental health crisis package, which SV has proposed several times. There are many people in the outdoor industry who do not get the rights or the pay they are entitled to. We believe it is unacceptable that some companies pay lice pay and get away with it. Therefore, SV proposes that those who break the Working Environment Act or offer wages under a generalised tariff may be able to withdraw the grant. SV has been given a majority in several local governments, such as Lillestrøm and Moss, to suspend the grant of donations, and now Stortinget should also follow suit. SV believes that the alcohol charge should be differentiated between shopcut sales and tipping points in order to move alcohol consumption into a controlled environment. We have skilled professionals who can control the donation, and it will strengthen the outdoor industry if we move some of the consumption from home to pubs, restaurants or bars – when the pandemic is over. It's a business-friendly alcohol policy: more expensive to drink at home, cheaper out there. I am glad that the government parties, together with SV and others, are to get health information on alcoholic beverages and that the government will soon facilitate this. SV supports proposals together with the Progress Party that those who make alcoholic beverages can sell own-produced goods in their own production premises in cooperation with the Vinmonopolet. Prices and awards should be on the packaging so that we who buy alcohol can get some more information. It's sad that the other parties are against it. I'll take up the suggestions from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e862	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, then presented the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e867	It is that when we deal with different political issues, there are things that need to be weighed up against each other. So also in this case. In alcohol policy, public health is an important perspective, which the proposal – and the proposals – must focus on. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that an alcohol policy puts public health and not least vulnerable groups in the centre, because we know that alcohol use is one of the most important risk factors for the loss of healthy years of life, diseases and early death. Of course, increased availability also leads to increased consumption, and when total alcohol consumption increases, the extent of health problems and other problems related to alcohol use will necessarily also increase. I am pleased that the government of the Granavolden platform has committed itself to keeping the main lines of today's alcohol policy firm, and that it will continue, and I am also very pleased that there is a broad consensus on this in this room. The wine monopoly is a strong and important player in a sensible Norwegian alcohol policy. It is a natural regulator, while possessing knowledge and competence for the population both in demand and in satisfaction with. Then we know that there are, gradually, many local producers in Norway who contribute both jobs and activities, and several consumers want local goods and also support local businesses. That is why the Christian People's Party is involved in the proposal that opens up for this. Whether it is the same model that you have in Sweden, linked to the Systembolaget there, or other arrangements that need to be put in place to achieve it, we at least support the fact that local players should also be able to get shelf space on the Vinmonopolet, and I look forward to it being possible. I am pleased that there is no liberalisation of alcohol policy in Norway and that a broad majority agree on it. So to the Center Party, which had a little greeting to the Christian People's Party when it was about both alcohol strategy and branding: the Christian People's Party has not turned around or believes anything else now than we have thought before, and we are also waiting for the government's alcohol strategy to be finished. It's the government's alcohol strategy, so when it comes to Stortinget, I don't know. The marking system hope I can also get in place quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e883	Alcohol is not an ordinary commodity, and alcohol use is one of the main risk factors for the loss of healthy years of life in the population. This entails costs for others than the user himself, at both individual and community level. It is well documented that increased availability of alcohol increases consumption, both among those who drink frequently and among those who drink more rarely. When total alcohol consumption increases, the extent of health problems and other problems related to alcohol use will also increase. It follows from the Granavolden platform that the government will continue the main lines of today's alcohol policy. This includes, inter alia: maintaining important instruments such as the Vinmonopoly, the licensing system, regulated selling and delivery times, alcohol levies and the advertising ban. A number of the proposals put forward in the proposal will increase the availability of alcohol and weaken the instruments we know to work and help reduce the incidence of alcohol-related harms and problems. I can't support that. Several of the proposals are also problematic in EEA law and challenge inter alia. the wine monopoly system. Norway has a restrictive alcohol policy justified on grounds of public health protection. The various instruments form part of a comprehensive and consistent alcohol policy. If some of the instruments are weakened, the whole will be weakened, and this could make it difficult to maintain the other instruments, including: based on an EEA legal context. On this basis, I do not recommend the Storting to adopt the proposals. I do not want to comment on the individual proposals in detail, but I would like to comment on the proposal to investigate changes to the Wine Monopoly purchasing code with a view to increasing the range of locally produced goods on each sale. I understand the intention that the customers of the Vinmonopolis should have greater access to locally produced drinks. At the same time, I would also like to stress the following: an important prerequisite for having a monopoly system for the sale of alcohol is that Norwegian and foreign producers are treated in a non-discriminatory manner. The current purchasing system ensures this, and any adjustments must be made. The requirement for non-discrimination limits what can be done to facilitate increased supply of Norwegian products. I therefore assume that any changes to the purchasing system must be in accordance with EEA law requirements for non-discrimination between Norwegian and foreign producers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e894	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e899	Norway is faced with a restrictive and public health-friendly alcohol policy. Time and again, the World Health Organisation has shown that about 200 diseases are related to alcohol use and that for some diseases, for example: diabetes, may cause complications unless the content of the alcoholic drink is known. It has therefore been important in the previous debates that have been held here in Stortingen to put in place a content labelling system. It is also known that the European Union is going on right away. I hope that the government will not wait for the EU, but that Norway will take the lead with clearer requirements for content labelling. My question to the Council of State is, When will the scheme be put in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e906	In the national alcohol strategy referred to above, the Government will decide on the regulation of warning marking and content labelling requirements for alcoholic beverages, as requested by the Government of the United Kingdom. Work on the alcohol strategy is soon to be completed, and it will be presented very soon. I am also aware that the European Commission has recently stated that they will consider regulating this, and we are following this work very closely in the EU. The EU, if I don't remember completely wrong, last week presented a new cancer strategy as part of its commitment to health, among others. this with content labelling is now being raised to a greater extent. Regardless of whether Norway chooses to do this before or with the EU, it is at least a strength that the EU is now raising this on the agenda to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e913	I notice that the Minister of Health in his speech attaches great importance to the fact that the proposals of the Progress Party will either threaten the monopoly or increase access, but it is with respect to reporting errors. Many of these proposals are purely sensible and practical to facilitate Norwegian entrepreneurs. For example: product information, Norwegian beverage producers obtaining international recognition are not allowed to inform about it. This concerns Aurora Spirit in Lyngen, Myken Distillery on the Helgeland coast, Oslo Handicraft distillery and others. This is pure product information, and I want an answer from Bent Höie on why he refuses to inform us about it. When a customer first enters the Vinmonopolet and has decided to buy a gin, why should he not get information about which Norwegian producers have delivered world-class quality goods on it? I noticed that Bent Höie last year thought it was good to tell us about news, which led to an adjustment last year, so why not allow information about the products also in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e918	It is always such that you can look at how the advertising ban is practised and enforced, but it is incredibly important that you do not challenge the advertising ban, and that is really what this is all about. The challenge is that there can always be good arguments for individual elements that are justified on the basis of information to customers, but initially one must be honest and say that very much of this is about marketing. That's also why the producers of the goods are very busy getting them out – they want more sales of their products. It is a completely fair matter, but the sum of many of these kinds of adjustments that can make sense individually, can also be the drop that makes the Norwegian advertising ban not stand, and the consequence of it is very serious for public health.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e923	The Council of State does not respond to the reasons why the government parties are voting against allowing Norwegian beverage producers to place a mark on their bottles to the customers who are still in the wine monopoly. They have nowhere else to show these bottles. I just don't understand that. I will go on to what we actually get implemented here today, a proposal that the wine monopoly must take in local produce. In Sweden, which is a member of the EU, they have a system in which Systembolaget has to take in local-produced goods within a given geographical radius. How does the Minister of Health view the follow-up to this decision? What progress can we expect? When can Norwegian beverage producers be sure that they receive their products on local wine monopolies around that country and when can Norwegian consumers access these products?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e930	First, my answer was exactly an exact answer to the question asked by the representative. That's what's the reason. My professional background is just from this industry. I know that when you have got a customer into the restaurant, the sale is not given. One is engaged in resale, and that means that whether a product is sold on the Vinmonopolet, it is not that the quantity sold is given independently of the marketing, which is also carried out inside the outlets. I also believe that the representative, whom I believe is a member of a free market and thus also has faith in marketing, would have to agree with me professionally. So that's the way that the proposal that gets the majority is, of course, going to work on figuring out. And I agree with the intention: it is a great advantage for customers in Norway to have access to more locally produced products. We want to follow that up, but within the framework of what the EEA Agreement provides for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e937	On 20 November 2018, the Stortinget adopted several decisions on alcohol policy. I requested in my post the follow-up of these from the government. This applies, inter alia, to: setting up a public selection to assess the cost of alcohol use for society, working life, individuals and families, to get a strategy, which is named, to get a labelling scheme, content labelling and also warning labelling in connection with pregnancy. I notice that the Council of State says that the government will take a decision on, among other things. the inclusion of the strategy, but the big decision was not that we asked the government to take a decision on this or assess it, the decision was quite clear, after many years of discussion, to ask the government to submit proposals to the Stortingen to introduce requirements for labelling alcoholic beverages and to introduce labelling with health warnings. So what is the reason why the government and the government have not followed up on the decision of the Great Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e944	Not that the government has not followed up the decision of the Storting, and I have now replied that we will come back to that in the government's alcohol strategy. There will also be the further follow-up mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e949	SV believes that we should differentiate the alcohol charge between shopcut sales and tipping points in order to move alcohol consumption into a controlled environment. It's a little difficult in the Coronapandemy to drink out, but the policy will last after that too, I hope. Then I will ask a question, because there are no other parties who have responded to the proposal and the comment that has been in this matter for many weeks: what does the Council of State think about this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e955	It is, in fact, a proposal that falls within the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. What the consequences of such a differentiation would have been, I can't answer on the standing foot, in addition to the obvious consequence that the representative is after, which could mean a revolution in consumption. Then the difference in the fee will probably have to be quite large, and I expect that the representative does not want lower alcohol charges. This means, for example: the products on the pole must be significantly more expensive. There may also be other aspects of this that I cannot answer to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e960	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e967	Combating alcoholism and the challenges of unwanted alcohol behaviour is something we stand together on, and something we need to focus on. But alcohol is also a legal commodity to which most people have a good and unproblematic relationship, and alcohol and serving are also a major and important industry. We have thousands of competent and beautiful people and employees in Norway who are working to create quality products in the world class, creating jobs and values for both community and community, and creating pleasant experiences in the field of entertainment, celebrations, celebrations and cultural experiences. Yes, we're going to fight alcoholism, but we have to stop treating the industry as working with alcohol products, as a paria industry. The Progress Party shall submit 16 proposals on the initiative of the industry. Our proposals aim to remove unnecessary barriers that we believe have little effect, except to be effective barriers to industry. We focus on business-friendliness, including: The possibility of informing about products and distinctions for which we have worked hard and which Norway should also be proud that our entrepreneurs and our businesses are able to achieve. We believe that more of today's rules can give the impression of being more marked by moralism than effective combating what we all are for, namely limiting alcoholism and alcohol-related challenges. Some of the obstacles we feel are unnecessary, the representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen mentioned earlier today. This applies, inter alia, to: on their own packaging they cannot provide information on the distinctions they have received, and there are also restrictions on the possibility of advertising non-alcoholic beers and other things that I think many would agree to act as unreasonable and inefficient measures, except in terms of preventing the industry from developing and creating even more values for the community. I wish several of the measures had received the support of Storting. However, I am pleased that it is now opening up that the wine monopoly has to take more of local products, but we could take considerably more steps to prevent unnecessary barriers to the industry, so that we could get an alcohol industry that could stand out even more in the world class.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e978	These are 16 good proposals that would make a difference for many businesses in Norway, which are not about threatening and going beyond what everyone agrees to work for — reducing alcohol consumption. It was a bit polite when the council said he had experience. Yes, I also have experience with this in selling, in the groceries. I don't always think it's just about sales, but about selling the best products, and that's one of the things that this is all about, that it can be on the bottle that you have some of the world's best products. There's a lot of this thing about, and I can't understand and understand the majority, who think it shouldn't be allowed to keep it in the bottle, when you, as a customer, have actually visited it and entered. Obviously, bad products should be selected instead of choosing good Norwegian products. In my county, Telemark, we have one of the world's best beer producers – Lindheim Ølkompani. They're winning the prize, but they shouldn't be allowed to tell the world that they're doing it, at least not to the customers who might want to pick the beer instead of choosing another beer. That's a little bit of what this is all about. As former Minister of Agriculture and Food – now I may realize that the Minister of Agriculture and Food is not here today – it was great to travel around the country and be at fairs around where our producers were and were proud of the products they sold, which they did on a small scale. Of course, they didn't compete at price, but they competed on completely different things, namely having good products that people want. But they can't be allowed to tell people – greet the majority in this room. When I hear the debate, it's like seeing the ostrich, with my head a little bit in the sand – it's going well, the alcohol consumption goes down, and the sales go down. But now we've got a full-scale test of what it means, of how the sale is after closing the limit, and the sale is in the weather. The important thing is to work to reduce consumption, not necessarily where it is sold. I think it's better to sell good Norwegian products instead of selling expensive foreign products. I believe that this will not challenge it at all. One of the manufacturers says to me: It is sad that the customers come here and see the products and want to buy a bottle at home, but they have to travel on the pole, and at least they do not buy a small mini bottle instead. I mean, it's bad. I think it is 16 extremely good proposals from the Progress Party that will not challenge the majority of those who are afraid of it, but who will help ordinary local entrepreneurs. The fact that the Center Party can be against this is surprising. Very many in agriculture are doing this, either as the main blow because they have gone over to it or as a coffer for farming, and this is crucial to their success and to continue to be able to live where they live in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e995	I notice that there are very few parties who want to discuss industrial policy related to alcohol producers. The few who have chosen to speak today have struck their breasts, proud that they now think we are going to get an honor in being the country of the world that has the most restrictive rules for business. But such a price does not exist. Had it been found, the representatives had been allowed to tell us about it, as opposed to our business in Norway. These proposals do not threaten the monopoly of wine, they do not increase access. It is intended to correct the unnecessary constraints that exist out there, including: we have a proposal that donations assessed by the municipality should not focus on what is believed to be the entertainment concept exercised by the actor. It supported the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left Locally in the municipalities concerned. I do not understand why the government parties do not support this. Estimating a municipal puncture is about completely different criteria than what you think about the entertainment concept. If you have ordered a product from the Vinmonopolet in the post office, you are not allowed to pick it up today outside the opening hours of the Vinmonopolet. It creates many challenges for customers going to the post office. They may have to wait there in a queue, a few minutes late, so they will not be allowed to pick up a product they have ordered. I think we should clean that up, so that people who have ordered goods on the Vinmonopole can get them out for the whole opening time where they pick up their goods. When it comes to the marketing of alcohol marks and alcohol inside the tipping points, I certainly believe that there is something the government should look at further. In my home municipality, there is an outdoor spot that has received an observation from the check-in, because they had hung up some nostalgic signs that the tipper thought were old alcohol marks and could be seen as advertising. You've also seen scotches that don't get to stand there if they've once contained whiskey, while if they've never done it and are exactly the same, it's okay. Barmats that are facing the bartender are okay, but barmats that are facing the customer are not okay. I certainly believe that customers who come to the tipping points are aware that alcohol is being sold there. There is an entire bar shelf behind the bar counter ‘linet’ up with bottles of alcohol marks. The rules on how to deal with donor controllers should be less rigid, so that holders of these tipping points are required to take on serious alcohol consumption and not minor details such as a sign or an art installation that the donor controllers consider to be provocative. I am very sorry that the Norwegian distillery in Grimstad is unfortunately not allowed to sell pages, with the background that the apples come from garden owners and not farmers. That doesn't make any sense. These suggestions are very good. I am absolutely sure that at some point they will be adopted policies, the parties on the Storting must only spend longer to evaluate them. We'll come back to this on a later occasion. I regret that the parties at Stortinget do not dare to engage more in a more sensible and nutritious alcohol policy that we have now proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1010	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1027	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time will also be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1034	This matter is about ensuring the protection of the elderly and proper care during the coronary apathy. Six out of ten people who have died of covid-19 in Norway have lived in health institutions, and Norwegian corona monitor, a survey conducted by Opinion for the Red Cross during the pandemic, shows that 31 pst. of those who asked over 80 years felt more lonely because of the pandemic. There are still examples of older people who have to die alone because of severe infectious diseases in municipalities and institutions. It's not okay, and it's important that we take it seriously. This year, Bergen’s Official Journal told the story of Aud and Kjell, who had been married for 66 years. The ban on visiting Løvåsen's nursing home in Bergen led to Kjell not being with his Aud for the last hours, days and weeks of her life. It's by no means okay. Older people shall not die of or in solitude. It is therefore so important that the proposal, such as the Progress Party, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, is behind, where the Stortinget asks the government to ensure that no elderly people in health institutions should die alone under the pandemic, are actually adopted today. Close relatives shall be allowed to be present in the final phase of life of their loved ones. Something else is heartbroken. It is also important for us to know how many elderly people die alone, and why relatives were absent. The same majority therefore suggest that municipalities and hospitals report cases where older people die alone. In this way, we will get a better overview of which municipalities are not able to follow this up well enough, and therefore also put in place effective measures to ensure that this is cleaned up. Only like this can we prevent the next Kjell from being with his Aud for the last time of life. With this, I will present the Committee's position and take up the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1049	The representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen then drew up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1054	Through this pandemic, we've had several outbreaks of disease in our homes. Covid-19 has led to great consequences for the elderly and their relatives. It is common and natural that people in nursing homes die, but it is neither common, natural nor worthy to live the end of their lives cut off from contact with their neighbors. Lack of association with a spouse, mother, father, or other person who is happy, and the fact that you have not been present with them at the very end of your life, many will carry with them for a long time. As the representative Bruun-Gundersen was also involved, we have read strong cases on such cases in particular. The Official Journal of the Mountains. I would like to commend Bergen's Official Journal for the good journalism they have done in relation to these matters. The pandemic has taught us a number of factors that are relevant to infectious diseases in hospitals. In the beginning, we had a particular concern about infectious diseases equipment and access to it. Subsequent experience over the last year has shown us that both building mass and crew have a bearing on infectious diseases. Steinar Barstad, in the journal for care research, pointed out that narrow corridors, small common areas, narrow equipment spaces and common bathrooms and toilets are a risk factor. This also underlines why we need to rehabilitate and rebuild nursing homes in the future, as well as building new ones. In the short term, minor adjustments may be necessary. The last relationship I want to pick up from learning points from the last year is manning. Before Christmas, I met health professional Martine Hägland. She only has 62.11 pst. job and must fill with guards at another hospital in another municipality in order to earn a living. At the same time, concern was expressed by both municipal leaders, politicians and the media for the spread of infection between institutions. Martine then chose to turn down guards in fear of spreading infection between her workplaces. She had to pay the price for it herself. This has to end. It is a political responsibility for employees in care and care to have a full job and a wage to live on. That is why it will be a major issue for the Workers' Party in the forthcoming Grand Prix elections. With that, I will address the proposals made by the Workers' Party together with the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1069	Then the representative Tuva Moflag has drawn up the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1074	We believe it is obvious that relatives should be with their closest friends at the end of life, regardless of the infective situation. It is also clarified in the Directorate-General for Health’s adviser on visits to health care institutions. The Health Directorate has weekly dialogue meetings with the Heads of State or Government, and state administrators have been asked to follow up on local government visits through these meetings and through guidance, so that the visitation scheme is in line with the recommendations given in the National Adviser. The government parties, together with the Advance Party last year, arranged for 400 million to be granted. to vulnerable elderly people, to activity measures and to combat indifference for the elderly. In addition, 75 million. kr to non-governmental organisations contributing to peer work, meeting places and activities of people socially isolated as a result of infection prevention measures. These funds will be continued this year. The Health Directorate has already been asked to update all relevant professional advice on healthcare to ensure that up-to-date advice on the preservation of vulnerable groups is known and available to the services. Furthermore, the Directorate has been asked to develop guidelines to ensure predictability, access to and individual planning of necessary services for residents, service recipients and their relatives at the different stages of a shutdown. We believe that the content of the proposals which are now being adopted by the majority in the European Parliament has been respected. Of course, medical and palliative treatment for older people with covid-19 infection must be assessed individually and as necessary. All patients should be individually assessed, regardless of their failure. To ensure that no elderly people in health institutions will have to die alone under the pandemic, and that close relatives must have the opportunity to be there in the final phase of life, is already, as I was in the past, clarified to municipalities and hospitals. Otherwise, I would like to add that it seems very detailed to require reporting to Stortinget in cases where the opposite to assumption would occur. Good infectious disease protection and due care are important independently of the pandemic, but it is more demanding to achieve. Here, health services and municipalities do a good job, and I want to pay tribute to all health care employees who are in this every day. But the principles of good and dignified care for the elderly are the same no matter what situation we face. That is exactly why we have introduced the Life reform throughout our lives. The goal is for all older people to receive help and support in mastering life. Life throughout life is about the basic things that often fail in the provision of older people: food, activity and community, health care and the coherence of services. In the situation we are now, this is more important than ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1087	The pandemic and the measures against infection have led to major changes in society. In November 2020, the Health Authority presented a report on patient and user experience so far below the pandemic. The result gives cause for concern about the situation of some of the most vulnerable users and patients, such as the elderly who need complex services or comprehensive services and support large parts of the day. Over half of the people asked say they get fewer services than before the pandemic. About a third reported that health has been poorer, and many say that services have fallen completely away. The Health Authority questions whether these users will be able to meet their basic needs and receive defence services. Up towards 70 pst. of the relatives responded that they have given far more support under the pandemic than before. Different download and day and activity activities have been reduced or completely removed during the pandemic, and it also affects the many relatives. Now the pandemic is in another phase, and once again we see increasing infection more places in the country. In this context, it is important that the service sites that introduce new infection prevention measures do so in a way that does not have a disproportionate impact on vulnerable groups. The service providers have an obligation to constantly assess whether the services are valid and in line with the needs of the users. One has an obligation to make individual assessments. Users and their relatives are legally entitled to participation, and the law applies under a pandemic. The central party believes that the situation of the vulnerable elderly under the pandemic needs greater political attention. That is why we have tabled this proposal for a representative, and it is a great pleasure that a whole five of the proposals today have a number of them: This applies to the proposal to ensure that older people with covid-19 infection must receive medical and palliative treatment in line with others, so that any hospital treatment needs to be assessed individually and as necessary. This applies to the proposal that no elderly people in a health institution should die alone under the pandemic and that close relatives should be present. It's actually an unnecessary proposal, but unfortunately it's necessary to take it up. It applies to the proposal to ensure that if elderly people die alone in a health institution, this should be reported. This applies to the proposal to provide older people with better infectious diseases and to the proposal that the government should change its communication strategy under the pandemic in such a way that the municipalities and local authorities are directly informed of national measures. Unfortunately, we do not have a majority for the proposal for a national programme for more full-time settings, increasing basic staffing and recruitment to the municipal health and care service. Nor do we get multiple numbers for a proposal to secure hospitals and homes with enough infection protection equipment and a possibility for smaller physical adaptations of building under the pandemic. I will deal with the proposal that the Central Party has put forward with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1113	The representative Kjersti Toppe has drawn up the proposal she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1118	Elders in the institution have carried a very heavy should under this pandemic. Not only are they hit harder by the disease, they have also been hit hard by the measures. Sitting alone when life goes to the end, with extensive disease, is heavy for both those involved and their relatives. The community health service has been hard hit for a long time. Shorter hospital lay time has led to pressure on services. It is the sick and the elderly who pay the government's policy price. With the pandemic on top, it got worse. That is why I am pleased that the majority is voting in favour of more proposals today. But it should not really be necessary to go through the Storting to ensure that the elderly will not die alone. Together, the red-green proposals promote a number of full and permanent posts. It is one of the most important things we can do to ensure better care for the elderly. In particular, it is important to prevent infection. One of the most brutal lessons learned from Sweden is how the infection increases when employees cannot afford to stay home in case of illness, and when employees without symptoms go between different institutions because they have not received whole and regular jobs. I recommend all the proposals SV are on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1129	The government is committed to protecting vulnerable groups under the pandemic, and the national councils have been aimed at protecting these groups, including: older people, who are particularly susceptible to coronary infection. This was the background for last year's restrictions on visits to hospitals. At the same time, we learn that the strict measures of infection caused additional pressures such as solitude and social isolation. We have taken more steps to reduce the negative consequences of these measures. Professional advice and recommendations have been continuously updated. I have been very clear that residents of hospitals have the right to receive visits, and as vaccination of hospital residents, it is now possible to squeeze each other, not just visit them. There may be new outbreaks or unexplained situations requiring restrictions, but restrictions and visits must be justified by the safety requirement under the legislation on the protection of infection. State administrators follow up on the municipalities that practise the rules too strictly. For those affected by critical illness or death, the advice has always been to facilitate visits. At the start of the pandemic, there were challenges related to access to equipment both nationally and internationally. Therefore, we established a temporary purchasing and distribution system to ensure the necessary access to equipment. The system has now been completed, and municipalities and hospitals are now themselves responsible for providing adequate infective equipment for their own services. However, the government has decided and has already established a national emergency room for infectious equipment, which will complement services with equipment if necessary, but I can stress that the emergency room will not replace the service's own responsibility to purchase equipment in the normal way. These are those groups that are at increased risk of serious progression and death, which will benefit most from being protected against covid-19. Therefore, the government has prioritised the very oldest and people in hospital early in the vaccination course. Most of these groups have now been vaccinated. That's why we've also changed the advice, so that it'll be even easier for the elderly at home to get a visit. I agree with the proposers that there is a need for measures to provide older access to social contacts. Through the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, we have allocated 400 million in 2020. to vulnerable elderly people, to activity measures and to combat indifference for the elderly. We've also allocated 75 million. kr to non-governmental organisations contributing to meeting places and activities for the elderly. In 2021, we've allocated 325 million. to vulnerable elderly people and also continued the stimulation programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1145	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1150	As I was also in my post, before Christmas I visited health professional Martine Hägland, who works in a 62.11 p.m. fill out his or her post by taking care of another hospital in another municipality. She told me that she, out of fear of spreading infection, actually chose not to take guards at the other hospital. What will the Minister of Health say to these employees who have taken responsibility for the protection of infectious diseases on their own account?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1155	I am very grateful for that, and I am also aware that many health care employees have severely restricted their social activity since March. Some people have almost gone into voluntary quarantine because they are so busy protecting those they work with, and provide help, care and care. We see that there is an enormous will among those who work in the healthcare system to take the protection of the infection seriously and work to protect the employees. I'm very grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1160	Together with the other red-green parties, we are promoting a proposal to call on the government by June 2021 to promote a national programme for more full-time jobs, increased basic staffing and recruitment for municipal health and care services – with measures both in the short and long term. With the backstop we have, with employees who don't get a salary to live on, who don't get whole, full jobs, and who at their own expense have taken responsibility for the protection of infection: why won't the government be involved in such a proposal, and what will the government do in that case to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1165	This is because that programme was actually adopted by the Storting in the context of the 2021 budgetary procedure. In Competencelift 2025, there are significant earmarked funds every year. Now there is also a cooperation forum with the Norwegian Association of Nurses, Delta and the Trade Union, where we are also sitting and discussing just how we should use these funds and possibly other measures to create a full-time culture, reduce the use of part-time work, reduce temporary work and increase staffing in the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1170	A short time ago, 59 local councillors wrote a chronicle in which they call the government's information strategy Joker Nord. Doctors who are set to enforce coronary intervention and preparedness work in the municipalities are very dissatisfied with the way in which information comes to them. They are totally dependent on attending press conferences to know what action they need to take, and they have to do their own interpretations of what is being said. It won't last. The majority of Stortinget now adopts a proposal today for municipalities and municipal councils to be given direct notice of national changes and measures. My question to the Minister of Health is, how does he view the chronicle that has been written, and how does he feel that the Stortinge now sees the need to make such a decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1175	When that article was printed, I took it very seriously. We were in direct contact with the person who took the initiative for the article, and discussed how we should follow this up. We did. We established a partnership with the Norwegian Medical Association and the Health Directorate and have followed up the article. The feedback we have received after that is that those who were the initiators of this, think that the system we have now set up is much better. I really perceive that the decision taken in the Storting today has been followed up, or already implemented by the government in cooperation with those concerned. And then we can get all the better in that area, and we're working on that. The system we have set up now, some of which are very critical of, namely that we have set up a ringing system in connection with local outbreaks with some defined levels of action, is, of course, just such a way that those responsible locally can prepare themselves in advance. It has, for example, The North-Jear crisis management has now been done by predicting how the ringing system will turn out in those with local outbreaks. It's an example of how we've done this better now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1182	In our case, we had a situation where the elderly in hospitals weren't tested enough, because one didn't have guidelines that would allow one to test if it wasn't common symptoms. Now, the Public Health Institute has recommended a sort of screening survey of hospitals among both residents and staff, but I have not heard that this is actually implemented. This has been the most important issue of import infection in the last month. I thought the advice from the Institute of Public Health was very important, so my question is how this was implemented in the municipalities. Can the Council of State do any good for how many municipalities that have introduced screening in hospitals to detect infection among the elderly in institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1189	No, I can't say a number of that, but I understand that the municipalities very much follow the guidelines we have. It is of course that we could have a system that means that all the municipalities in the country had to report to the State Manager about everything they do in terms of guidelines, so that I could answer all the questions I get from the representative Toppe about it, but I think there had been a wrong use of resources at this time, simply because we also have to limit the reporting requirements to the municipalities in a crisis situation. It's also important that we have confidence in what's happening locally. I perceive that many parties in Stortinget have called for a reform of trust. A trust reform should, if it is to be implemented, at least include the idea that a non-detailed reporting on all advice and guidance given to municipalities should be requested.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1196	The government will introduce a new system of care for the elderly. Former Minister of Social Affairs Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa called for an offer by his grandmother, now called by the government free choice of use in the care of the elderly. My question is, why does the government see the need to change the system? Is it really such that, on behalf of the Council of State, the public offer for the elderly is so weak that it is not a good offer? Is it simply that there are too few full-time positions, there are too many older ones to deal with, and so you have to bet on the commercial one?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1203	Firstly, the system is free of user choice, which the government has at the hearing and will soon promote for the Storting, as opposed to putting Grandma out for tender. It is precisely a legal framework that allows municipalities to introduce free user choice without having to walk the path of tenders, which is the usual way to do so now. So this avoids the negative sides like this. tenders and competitive tendering will mean. I think a lot of people will choose to use the municipal offer because they're satisfied with it, but I've also met a lot of users who say that in a situation where you're often very dependent on the help of others, it has a great value as a single person to be a boss in your own life and be able to make some choices. One of the users I met who was very concerned about this, just said that the importance of getting a fixed person at a fixed time, was what made her choose a private supplier instead of the municipality's offer, because it was important in her life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1211	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1218	I am proud of the efforts of the Centre Party to improve the situation of the elderly in this area. It is good infection protection and worthy care of the elderly that is the theme here today, and I want a little attention on proposal No. 3, which comes from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, on more full-time positions and thus fewer people to deal with for the elderly who need assistance in their situation. The pandemic has shown the need to have fewer to deal with. There's unison agreement that there's this thing that needs to be done to get the quality up. We are proposing here a national programme of quality and money, and it is alarming that the government parties cannot support it. What is essential – and here the Centre Party has a great responsibility in the individual municipalities with our more than 100 rapporteurs – is to interact between the political leadership, the administrative management and the trade unions in the municipalities, so that we get better and more dignified care for the elderly, not least in the home services. It's hard work. It is complicated to get the tour lists up when there is a good day's work, and therefore it is essential to establish a common sense of reality in all parts, not least in the management of a municipality and the management of the department. It will improve public health and care provision, and that is what is at the heart of this proposal. Then we are at the next point, for which the same parties are in favour, namely that a government is asking not to introduce the free choice of user services in the care of the elderly. The Council of State now said that one could introduce this system without a tender. That's pretty special. Does the Council of State really believe that municipalities can include private commercial operators in this activity without offering them a tender? One has to share a market here between the different actors. If one does not, well, then we have free access, then it is possible for anyone within some registration scheme to enter. We will then have a large number of companies operating in this sector, which ultimately have to deal with the public offer, because what goes on in that part of the care that we are talking about here needs to be coordinated with other parts of the care for the elderly in the municipalities. It will easily be quite a chaos and the need for a large coordination apparatus if it is to work. I would like to strongly warn against that proposal – and hold on to what the Central Party Social Minister Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa said: we do not put Grandma out for tender. Instead, we improve the public offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1229	Some speakers have given the impression that the proposals that are being made are to open doors, and that this has already been taken care of. We can take the proposal that health care should be evaluated individually and the experience of the pandemic. Among other things, a study from three hospitals in Bergen revealed that only 5 out of 40 patients were adequately relieved, and that only 3 out of 40 were hospitalized. There are also many who give feedback, both through the media and through direct contact, and are concerned that the National Leader-in-Office has been so rigorously practised that patients who are in hospital and who have needed and could benefit from hospitalisation have not received it because one has feared that they could take up room for other patients. We also have a proposal that no one should die alone, and it is said that it is an unnecessary proposal: I am completely united – it should never be in this room, it should be quite obvious in the services. It's been clarified by the Health Directorate, that's quite correct, but we know that the practice out there has been very different. There are too many people who have not experienced visits because of very strict visiting regulations, and others have also died under the pandemic. We must prevent this by any new wave or infection in parts of the country. We are told that it is very detailed to ask for reporting on how this is being done. I'm in complete agreement – it's very detailed. But when we in the opposition repeated times have taken this up since March because we see that this is not good, and because it is a very important matter of value, we are told by the press that no, it is not actually taken care of – despite many questions to the Council of State that this should now be taken care of. That is why we must make such proposals. When we ask not to introduce screening to all hospitals in Norway to detect infection and prevent infectious outbreaks, we find that we do not need to ask for even more reporting. We do not ask for reporting; we ask that a national supply of this material be ensured, so that older people are actually given priority. It has also been shown that there is a great need for rehabilitation in hospitals and that poor building stock may actually have contributed to increased infection. Then it's illogical that one should cut in support of rehabilitation. In any case, that's what the government has recommended before.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1244	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1261	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who would have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1268	Thank you to the Cooperation Committee on this matter. The background is therefore the report from the Climate Change Committee of September last year. They looked at how we can reduce the climate risk in the Norwegian economy now that we are facing a rapid global energy shift away from fossil energy, where demand for oil and gas will also fall. The selection found that the world’s and Norway’s climate policy is in line with the 1.5 degree target, i.e. halving global greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. They recommended reducing the country’s climate risk by limiting new exploration licences, tightening the oil tax regime and introducing stress testing of climate risks for new deployment and operation plans. The sample also recommended facilitating far greater value creation and increased export income from renewable energy, bioeconomy, carbon capture and storage and hydrogen. The oil and gas industries represent 28 pst. of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway in 2019. In addition, emissions are generated when Norwegian oil and gas are incinerated in other countries — estimated at about half a billion tonnes of CO 2 equivalent. This corresponds to 10 times Norway’s annual emissions. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Swedish Environment Party and the Greens, today propose to standardise the certification for offshore work across sectors such as oil and wind to make it easier for workers to move between industries. In addition, the SV and the Greens are promoting a number of proposals which unfortunately do not receive a majority. We are asking the government to stop all allocations of new oil licences, to abolish the light fusion system and to introduce a neutral petroleum tax system to replace the current system. We ask the government not to introduce a conversion tax on the production of petroleum in order to promote climate change and low-carbon technologies and come back to the Storting with the necessary proposals to ensure it. We ask the government to introduce stress testing of climate risk for the plan for the development and operation of petroleum deposits. We ask the government to set up a public sample to assess how expertise in oil and gas can be transferred to other industries. And we ask the government to start work on the programme of competence transfer and job security for the petroleum sector. The Greens will also vote in favour of proposal No. 8, from SV, to assess socio-economic profitability and climate risks in the different Norwegian-socket fields. With this I address the suggestions I referred to. I want everyone to have a good debate and the majority to have better luck the next time we have to decide how to proceed in a necessary green transformation of the Norwegian economy and industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1288	The representative of Une Bastholm has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1293	This issue is about climate change and invites another debate on what is needed to stop greenhouse gas emissions. The emissions in Norway are the lowest in 27 years, but the climate crisis is the biggest challenge of our time, and we have a long way to go to achieve the goals and commitments we have set ourselves. That is precisely why it is also good that the government has presented an offensive and binding climate plan that shows how we can cut emissions and create development. We must convert and develop, not liquidate. Norwegian oil and gas production has ensured our well-being for decades, and its expertise will ensure the well-being of the decades to come. The government's objective of the petroleum policy is to be profitable and to contribute funds to the Community. The current process is already under stress testing by oil companies and is not approved by the authorities if it is not considered to be socially viable. Petroleum industry has given us priority. The knowledge from oil platforms is used for sea wind and oil drilling is used for carbon storage. These are the efforts of the government to support them through large grants for research and development in cooperation with the private sector. Predictable tax rules are one of the prerequisites for reducing the risk of investment and maintaining jobs. The petroleum industry is subject to both CO 2 tax and climate allowances, and the climate plan considers that they together amount to NOK 2 000 per tonne of CO 2 in 2030. This gives companies on a Norwegian base additional incentives to invest in low-emission technology. I would like to remind you of the announced announcement of long-term value creation from our energy resources, where it will also be described how new and sustainable industries and jobs have the potential to grow by using the expertise, technology and experience of the oil and gas industry. I don't think we yet know where the technology opportunities from oil and gas business stop, but I think that a political liquidation can put an end to them, and that's what the proposals in this case from SV mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1316	The representative proposal on climate change is claimed to be the matter we are dealing with now. It is at best to sail under a false flag. This is a hidden attempt to get rid of the Norwegian oil and gas industry – a targeted, conscious and precise attack on the industry we have built up over decades, which has made us rich, which has provided the basis for well-being, and which employs not only tens of thousands but hundreds of thousands of workers directly or indirectly throughout this country. It is a representative proposal for increasing poverty, increasing disparities and industrial death for much of the country. Fortunately, this proposal is not accepted. It is a paradox that we have to decide on this type of proposal at a time when we are trying otherwise in this house to get what we can do to secure Norwegian jobs in an extremely demanding time. Norwegian oil and gas production does not mean all the world's markets. We have to recognize it – 2-3 pst. of total world oil production. It may be replaced by other oil producing countries, as this proposal proposes for all practical purposes. But it doesn't get any less emitted. To the extent that it affects global greenhouse gas emissions, it will probably help to increase them, because in Norway we produce oil and gas in a cleaner way than most other oil producing nations. That's the big paradox. The left side of Norwegian policy is about to go completely wild in this debate. In its drive after the affordable initiative, to contribute to lower CO 2 emissions, jump after the political symbols, after domestic spills that do not necessarily affect the global, and on the road is a willingness to sacrifice tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands, of profitable jobs that form the basis of well-being. There's still one thing about this proposal, and that's to keep up the motivation to make sure that the left-hand side doesn't win multiples at the election this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1332	The centre party is concerned with the climate change. But this proposal is a proposal to wind up Norwegian oil and gas industries, and it cannot be included in the Central Party. I think everyone in this room understands that we have the golden years for the oil and gas industries behind us, but I also think the very ones, most of them in this room realize that we are also going to need an oil and gas industry in our time. Then it would be unwise to start the closure of an industry that contributes just positive value creation, skills, technology and jobs to Norwegian society, and an industry that actually has ambitious climate targets. The centre party is concerned that the green shift in Norway is going to happen on the shoulders of this industry. There will be no industrial capture and storage of CO 2 without the oil and gas industry. These are the ones that represent the reservoirs, the technology, the competence and the risk capital. There will be no Norwegian wind power adventure with floating windmills at sea without the oil and gas industry. There are companies like Aker and Equinor, or subcontractors like FMC on Kongsberg and Slatterland in Rakkestad, which have the expertise and technology that is our competitive advantage. There will be no Norwegian investment in sea farms without the oil and gas industry. It is the industry that has experience in operating large installations at sea under very high conditions. Finally, it is difficult to imagine a Norwegian industrial trip on land without the oil and gas industry because the state of Norway is deeply dependent on its revenue to build a bridge into a renewable age. It is tempting to say that, as a society, we are to build a bridge from the oil country to the renewable country. The problem is that we can't build the bridge if we don't have a wedding party on the side we're standing. That's exactly what these proposals mean: that we tear down the bridge before we start building the bridge. Oil and gas industries are in the process of cutting emissions and transforming themselves in line with political leadership, agreed targets for the green shift, and the fact that the oil and gas industries are not freed from societal trends that are clearly on the side of the climate. The centre party is committed to ensuring predictability in order to be able to convert, and in our view, it will be impossible with the proposals the Stortinget has today been invited to deal with. But there is one exception: we support the proposal for a certification scheme for offshore work. It could just help to simplify the bridge construction from the oil age to the renewable age when the offshore worker and industry can use their competence across sectors — from oil to wind and other relevant areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1350	The report of the Climate Change Committee to reduce the climate risk in the Norwegian economy has important proposals to address the risks associated with oil and gas and to stimulate conversion. Climate change and the necessary transformation that the world must undergo will have a major impact on Norway and the Norwegian economy. The global energy transition is going faster than many had foreseen. Climate change poses a major risk to the Norwegian economy and puts pressure on industry to change, in particular the petroleum industry. Although the petroleum industry has been very important for the Norwegian economy, it is becoming less important in the future. We can't keep living on goods the world will have less and less of. More and more of the world’s largest banks and investors say they will not finance oil drilling in the Arctic, where much of Norway’s undiscovered oil resources are located. In addition, uncertainty about the value of future oil reserves in the financial market increases. All of this results in new investments in oil and gas, which usually have a horizon of at least 30 years, posing a significant and growing risk. The current framework conditions for the petroleum industry pose a risk of making investments that are not socially viable in the long term. It makes us vulnerable. The framework conditions for Norwegian oil and gas need to adapt to this reality and reduce the risk of investments that will not be socio-economically viable in the long term. Therefore, a gradual and planned transformation of the Norwegian economy is necessary. Migration is necessary in order to ensure that Norway needs more bones and is important to ensure the welfare of the country in question in the future and to ensure Norwegian jobs. Norwegian oil and gas workers have skills that will play a key role for other industries we will live on from in the future. Therefore, targeted measures are needed to safeguard this competence and to ensure its transfer to new industries. Today, there is no plan for this transition. Therefore, together with business organisations and the trade union movement, we need to ensure that future industrial efforts by Norway are coordinated with job security and competence transfer programmes for oil and gas workers. The aim must be to ensure a seamless transition to renewable energy jobs. Those who live in the belief that we can only continue and continue to sell a product the world will have less and less of, take a great responsibility for the welfare state of the future. I bring up the proposal SV has made on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1365	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1370	The Climate Change Committee has done an interesting job, and an important job. It's the WWF and some other civil society organisations that have supported it, and I want to thank you for the important job they've done. There are probably many of the proposals that they have made, which we are going to spend a lot of time in politics discussing, both internally in the parties and here in this Chamber. The proposals we are discussing today come from the Green and SV Environmental Party, and are actually about to wind up Norwegian oil production quickly. The Labour Party does not agree. I think both they and all of us know that it will only be the two parties that are behind those proposals. To a large extent, I can subscribe to the comments that came from my good colleague Ole André Myhrvold of the Senterpartiet. This is where the Workers' Party and the Center Party stand together. Norwegian oil production is the subject of political debate. I do not think we, as the Progress Party, should ridicule the fact that it is being discussed. On the contrary, I think it is important to discuss it, because it is Norway's biggest industry. Of course, we're going to be able to discuss the biggest industry in Norway, is taking it seriously, and they deserve it, because it's an industry that employs thousands of people, that generates large incomes for the community, and that drives world-class technology. Of course, such an industry tolerates having political discussion. At the same time, there is an industry that contributes to fossil resources, and all the use of fossil resources produces climate emissions. Therefore, in Norwegian oil policy, there are many dilemmas that need to be discussed: how we best equip the industry for the future, what kind of climate requirements we need to impose, and how we can use the knowledge we have had for 50 years at sea. Therefore, we must never fool ourselves into believing that the right answers in the past will be there in the future, and therefore this debates we have to take all the time. The Labour Party is voting, as I said, not for any of the proposals, with one exception, and that is the proposal that the representative Ole André Myhrvold presented, and that is what the Labour Party is behind. Let me just finally dwell on what is the introduction to the text in the notes. It says all the parties and says that the climate noise is one of the greatest threats men are behind, with one exception: for the Progress Party, this is not possible to say. I think it shows that here's the Progress Party once again on a different planet than all of us. We heard that the representative Jon Georg Dale was busy working. Well, the biggest threat to Norwegian jobs is not taking the climate fight seriously. The climate threat is a greater challenge for Norwegian jobs than having this discussion at all in this Chamber. I believe that what should have been quite obvious to all the world's politicians is obviously not obvious to the Progress Party. Here again they prove that they're different from us. It makes it a great paradox that this government has chosen the Progress Party as its partner in climate issues. So when we're going to discuss the climate announcement, the government has chosen to go to the only party that says that they don't believe that the climate issue is the biggest challenge facing people. It gets to be their choice, but it once again confirms how important it is to get a new majority in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1396	In danger of repeating what several representatives in the Committee have said before me – something else may be a little difficult – I would like to start by saying that the whole title of this proposal for a representative seems misleading to me. This is not about climate change, it is about winding up the Norwegian petroleum industry, which is a proposal and a debate we have had countless times earlier in this Chamber. But that being said, both I and the government agree with what the large majority of the committee also say, that the climate crisis is the biggest challenge of our time, and that the efforts to reduce world emissions and achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement are of the utmost importance. It is precisely for this reason that the government is pursuing an ambitious climate policy, which also includes oil and gas activities, through, among other things. commitment to allowances, an ever-increasing CO 2 tax and the fact that we have just presented a very comprehensive and ambitious climate report that puts us on track to achieve the targets. It is no surprise either that I fundamentally disagree with the proposers on this matter. I believe that the political closure of our largest and most important industry is a false track, but I want to facilitate the profitable and efficient production of oil and gas with ever lower emissions. It has to be a goal we can agree on. We are going to cut emissions as quickly as possible, and we are going to develop technological solutions that will enable us to achieve our climate objectives. That is the broad support of the Stortinget, and I am pleased about that. Furthermore, I explained in my letter to the Committee on my views on the various proposals, but I would say – without having time to address them all – that these proposals will not help to solve the global climate challenge. On the other hand, I am sure that it will mean a drastic reduction in Norway's largest industry and threaten tens of thousands of profitable jobs. The fact that the proposal also comes into the middle of a pandemic that has already hit thousands of businesses and jobs underlines the seriousness of this. It also calls on the Government to make proposals to standardise certification for offshore work in order to ensure cross-sectoral mobility such as oil and sea wind, in order to make it easier for workers to move between industries. I fully agree that we should facilitate the use of cross-sectoral competence, but, as mentioned in my letter of reply, we have no basis today to establish that there is a need to promote a proposal to further standardise certifications for offshore work as an action to achieve this. I have also not registered that it is a wish of the industry itself, and I often think it is wise to listen to them before introducing new and perhaps partly bureaucratic arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1412	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1417	I would first like to say that I share a view of much of the death penalty in the posts of the Council of State. But there is a logical flaw, as I understand it, when the Council itself boasts of the proposal for a CO 2 tax for the oil and gas industry of NOK 2000 per tonne. Then my simple question: What is the documented effect of reduced global greenhouse gas emissions at a CO 2 price for Norwegian oil and gas industry of NOK 2000 per tonne in 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1428	Just before the summer we adopted a quite comprehensive tax package for the oil industry in view of the very demanding situation they face. One of the proposals put forward by the Stortinget in that decision was that the Norwegian petroleum sector should cut not 40 pst, but 50 pst. of its emissions by 2030. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection voted in favour of this. The most important means we have of triggering that conversion is, among other things. CO 2 tax. Nor is it the case that the CO 2 tax alone will amount to NOK 2 000 per tonne in 2030, but that is the total level of charges, i.e. the quota price plus CO 2 tax. I think all industries in Europe are going to face higher charges in the future. I believe in a conversion of our industry to cut emissions to trigger those investments, and that it will also help to ensure the competitiveness of this industry in the future. I have still not registered any alternative proposals to achieve that goal also the Progress Party has voted for us to oblige the industry to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1444	For clarification, if the government party comes to the Progress Party and says we will go down to 40 pst. as an ambition, as the industry itself suggested, it is only to come. We're going to be willing to discuss that. There is a need to repeat the question, as I did not get an answer to what I asked for, i.e. what is the documented impact of global greenhouse gas emissions resulting from a CO 2 price of NOK 2000 per tonne in 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1454	When we cut emissions on the Norwegian base, emissions also go down. It makes sense that they do it. At the same time, this sector is part of the EU ETS, which will also be tightened to where allowances will be cancelled. The allowances that are not used on a Norwegian base because, for example: has electrified production instead, will contribute to fewer allowances, and also increased emissions. This industry is offensive itself. They want more than any other predictability of the framework to take us into the future. That is why, at least as far as I have registered, they have not been very, very critical of this. Yes, it's going to be demanding for them, but we're also going to set up authorities, and we're going to do that in a lot of different ways. Let's do that, for example. by using billions to develop carbon capture and storage, which will be very important for this industry. They also want to be part of the green shift, and they want to be able to deliver oil and gas from Norwegian base in a future where we have achieved our climate targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1461	Now I'm beginning to suspect that the government doesn't know the consequences of the policy they're proposing. Instead of creating more bases for talking away from the question, I am now repeating it for the third time: what is the concrete, demonstrable effect in reducing greenhouse gas emissions globally of a CO 2 price of NOK 2000 per tonne for Norwegian petroleum industry in 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1469	I've responded to this. Now I and the representative Dale have had quite a few of these exchanges in several cases in recent times. I have said the same thing as I am now saying: Of course, emissions will be cut globally if you also cut emissions on the Norwegian base. We have a common atmosphere. If there's something smaller that's released, it's going to be less total. Then I refer to the ETS, which tightens up, which gets stricter, and it gets more expensive to get out there too. Of course it will have an effect. That is what is at the heart of the EU's climate policy. That's why we're closely related to the EU, because it's the best way to achieve our goals. I have recently approved three electrification projects on the base, which we have received thanks to what the Progress Party did when they were in the Ministry of Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1476	Jon Georg Dale – to line no. Four, and it's going to be the last one.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1481	President, I'll take care of that. We did a lot of good when we were in the Oil and Energy Department. We recognize that, and we're proud of it. One of the things we were very concerned about when we put there was to know what the consequences were of what we suggested. I note that there is not a figure of global emissions cut, which will come from the proposal for a very specific figure, NOK 2000 in CO 2 tax per tonne. This illustrates the whole point, namely that joint implementation with the EU, which is also supported by the Progress Party's full heart because it is good for Norwegian interests, works because the markets work when Norway is part of them. The quota market that the Council of State boasts also provides for Norwegian reduced emissions to be matched by the availability of more allowances for others. Then we're back. When you can't be specific about the number: is there any kind of evidence that that fee proposal actually reduces global greenhouse gas emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1491	The effect of a total CO 2 tax, i.e. the quota plus the levy of NOK 2000 in 2030, will also depend entirely on what kind of measure it triggers. So no, it's not possible for me to stand here and give the exact number now for how much emissions it's going to cut. But the logic behind it all is that when we reduce emissions on a Norwegian base, emissions go down globally – it's impossible to misunderstand. And it's not right, either, as the representative says, that these quotas are just being made available to others. No, because that system gets tightened up, which I've also answered several times. You delete the allowances in the system, so they're not just being moved elsewhere. It is the change that has occurred in this system in the EU, which is very important. Otherwise, I would agree with the representative that if not the mechanism in place, it would have been reasonably pointless to cut emissions in the ETS sector. But that's it now. When you look at the offensive policy in Europe, you see which way it is going. I think we should be in that future, not on the hind legs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1502	I just have to start by commending the Council of State for repeatedly arresting the representative of the Progress Party in the debate on the electrification of the socket, and at the same time regretting that unfortunately the facts do not seem to have a significant impact on the representative Dale. But then to the question: In the autumn, it was revealed that up-to-date business estimates for the petroleum industry were not passed on to the Stortinget in connection with the opening of the Barents Sea south-east. The estimates made in 2013 estimated that an oil price of at least $84 per barrel was needed for oil activities in the area to be profitable. The question is: has the Ministry of Oil and Energy made any new profitability assessments of the activities in the Barents Sea since 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1509	First of all, the representative asks: when opening a sea area for petroleum activity, it is very uncertain what is the value base of what you can potentially find there, and potentially develop into a viable finding, so there will always be uncertainty about such numbers at such a time. What's the actual value, what's actually profitable, you only get to know after you've examined, drilled, found something -- matured it up to a decision. That's the time you have to make the decision. And of course, as you look at it more closely, you'll also be able to get more accurate assessments of this, but you don't know the exact profitability until you find anything. Then you haven't found the big resources in the Barents Sea south-east – that's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1514	I thank you for the answer, but I still wonder if there have been any up-to-date estimates relating to the profitability of these areas since the 2013 profitability assessment was made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1519	I can't answer exactly what kind of analysis has been made on this, but my overall point is in that context, that it's hard to know exactly, so I think it's dangerous to base it on whether something is profitable or not. You really don't want to have enough knowledge to think about it until you might have found something. There will always be uncertainties related to such numbers, so I'll warn both against paying too much attention to them and not paying attention to them at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1524	I notice that from both the Council of State and large parts of the United Kingdom, an important argument against looking at any changes in the oil tax regime and the framework conditions for the oil industry is that it will damage the transition for Norway to a greener industry for the same sector. I think that's a little alarming, also because it should have meant that the government had a lot of pressure to put in place the alternatives that allowed the workforce to move to those industries, for example. by supporting the proposal on migration and skills programmes, which are also on the table today. Secondly, it is contrary to what I read that the researchers write. We have a very strong marine wind environment at SINTEF and NTNU in Trondheim, and they made a report back in 2019 saying very clearly that they are warning against continuing with such a strong investment in oil, since it is itself competing for sea wind, because capital and competence were centered in oil. So I just want to ask for a comment on what the researchers are commenting on here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1531	There were quite a number of questions in one question here – there is a lot I wish I had more time to discuss. First of all, with tax: the overarching thing in our petroleum tax system -- now we have a tax package that is slightly different from what is the usual system we're going to go back to -- is that it's neutral. What is profitable for the companies is also profitable for the government. That's the whole basic principle in the way we've designed that system, and it's served us very well. We are committed to making socio-economic profitable investments on the base. We don't want unprofitable production, we don't want to go into a system where the state loses on what we do. And we haven't done that now, on the contrary, we've earned it very well. So the representative was within this of exploiting competence into other industries. There is a lot of exciting happening and good at this in Norway already today. There are many farms in Norway that already supply heavy inputs against, for example: offshore sea wind, and not least there are also many oil and gas companies that see that possibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1540	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1547	There was a very nice message today that the Johan Sverdrup field has been paid down. It just took 16 months. Although we have had troubled times and a very variable oil price, the Johan Sverdrup field has proved to be a very solid project. Now the revenue from this field will help finance our schools, care for our sick and care for our elderly. $1,400 a.m. This will bring us into income, $900 billion. kr to the State and the Community. These are revenues that proposers do not want — or income they will have, but the jobs and activity they oppose. The world needs more energy, it needs a lot of energy. Over 80 pst. of the energy we have available today comes from fossil sources. Yes, there is a great growth today in renewable energy sources, but they are in no way near being able to replace today's fossil sources. Norwegian oil and gas production is among those with the lowest climate pressure. Each barrel of oil or cubic metres of gas replaced by production elsewhere in the world will lead to increased global greenhouse gas emissions. That is why, from a climate perspective, the proposers should pay attention to Norwegian petroleum industry – not only because we are making a lot of money for the welfare community and implementing measures to reduce emissions, but also for the technology development with which Norwegian cap is involved in reducing emissions and with which the whole world is serving. We supply gas to Europe that realises emissions cuts six times the total Norwegian emissions in Europe. If we now establish Baltic Pipe to Poland, Poland alone can reduce its emissions by 80 million tonnes. Had this proposal been about reducing the use of coal or increasing the creation of more renewable energy, to the extent that the proposers are opposed, I would have understood that. But the proposal is not looking for solutions, it is only to shut down the Norwegian petroleum industry. This proposal undermines today's societal model, undermines international cooperation, undermines the welfare state, and undermines a solution to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1560	That is said very wisely in this civil debate. Some time ago, I read a strange story in the paper about a college or university in the United States, where students as part of the teaching of one of the subjects had to kneel in front of some plants and ask for forgiveness for what humanity did to the planet. So I thought, "I wonder if the representatives of the Workers' Party's energy and environmental fraction had been on official majoring visits in the United States and visited this college, university or whatever it was, would they have sat down on their knees and asked for forgiveness in front of those plants?" I think maybe they would have. It would emphasize so brutally the skewer, the spagaten, the Workers' Party is trying to balance the issue of climate policy and Norwegian petroleum industry. Please note that the post of representative Åsmund Aukrust. He cannot support these proposals today – no – but it is important that we discuss these issues, and then there is nothing about the quality of the proposals and why we cannot support these proposals today. I am asking the trade union movement and the petroleum industry in Norway to note that. I also ask them to remember the earlier performances of the representative Barth Eide, who was about to drastically change the framework conditions for Norwegian petroleum industry. What is interesting about this proposal is that if – and we know this is happening on the base now – the petroleum industry invests large amounts in new technologies, carbon capture, carbon storage, sea wind, etc., it has nothing to say to the Green Party and the Socialist Left. Someone else has to do it, it's not good enough if it's the companies on the base that do it. Note suggestion No. 6:@item: intable Text context ‘The government is asking the government to set up a public body to assess how competences in oil and gas can be transferred to other industries and to propose measures to facilitate this.’ That SV has such a proposal – yes, SV is a socialist party, they dream back to state five-year plans and all sorts of things. But that the Green Party, which says they are a block-independent party, does not see that it is pure socialism and plan economy, is completely incomprehensible. Rather, let us pursue a policy that supports the development of the socket, which provides a new industrial venture for Norway, and which will lead to a decline in greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1578	I actually asked for the floor because I was to express support for much of what Bru said, but now I have to deal with her colleague Heggelund first. It is just to stress that the Workers' Party is very united and very comfortable with the policy we are pursuing in the field of oil, gas, climate and conversion. As Mr Aukrust very clearly said, we disagree with the proposals for a closed-ended winding-up. On the contrary, we believe that it makes sense to continue to sell oil and gas as long as someone intends to buy it, not least our close friends in Europe. But it is also very sensible for us to take on board the fact that the market is changing rapidly, and that the consequences of Europe's green giving and a massive international commitment to decarbonisation in Asia, America and Europe will necessarily change those framework conditions. That's why it's important to get started with what we're going to live on in the future, when that demand gradually goes down. The smartest time is right now – just while we still have good oil and gas revenues, and precisely while we have fresh expertise from that field, which is very relevant in the emerging markets. Because the message to Norway from our close country abroad, not least Europe, is that the demand for much of what we can get very good at, is at full speed up, while the demand for much of what we've been big on, goes slowly, but definitely downwards. As a country, we have to deal with that, and I feel that there is starting to be quite a broad consensus on that. In any case, I can assure the representative Heggelund that there is very much agreement in the movement of workers – in which both the LO, the AUF and the Workers' Party – if he wondered. But then to my praise to the Council of State, which is really the most important thing to say that the Council of State is responding to Jon Georg Dale, it's important that Jon Georg Dale actually listens to. Sometimes I experience in this debate that Jon Georg Dale has found some of the old speech points from an early release of the Stoltenberg government. I remember using them myself. They were good. It's just that they fit at a different time, where we were at a completely different time in the development of international climate quotas and climate policy, and as the Council of State Bru says: the policy out there has fundamentally changed. Now you're subtracting excess quotas. The quota system is complemented by many other measures, standards and requirements at the top of it, so the correct reasoning is not only wrong today, but to use a parliamentary expression: they are simply wrong. That's kind of nice, so I guess that's what I'm going to say. They're just wrong, and so you can't use the speech points from another time and you think you're very good, because they voted the time they were used. The world out there is changing – we have to take that on board. I can actually invite Jon Georg Dale to a seminar on how the international quota system is fundamentally different at a late stage, where there are not so many quotas left, compared to an early stage, when quotas were fairly liberal out there. So I remind you that we are part of the European quota system, not all sorts of other strange inventions of so-called quota systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1593	I want to continue a little bit where I started in my reply to the Council of State Bru. Today, we are in a very serious situation in both Norway and the world in view of the covid-19 pandemic. When I hear the debate today, I should like us as people to be as resistant to the corona virus as the representatives of the Progress Party are to facts. Time and again, we hear from the representatives of the Progress Party that Norwegian oil and gas and Norwegian oil and gas production are the purest in the world. Well, the statistics and the facts show something else. The statistics of The International Association of Oil & Gas Producers — a statistics that would be thought to be reliable even for the Progress Party — show that the average emissions from production in the Middle East are lower than the corresponding figures for Norway. If the Progress Party were to pursue its argument completely, they should have supported our proposals and moved on to increase oil and gas production in the Middle East instead. The progress party representative Halleland said that if this were coal, they would have been there. But for those who remember a few years back, we had a discussion about coal mining at Svalbard as well. At the time it was the leading argument that Norwegian coal was cleaner than other countries' coal, and that we should therefore produce more coal. Luckily, that view did not get the majority at last. We got through. Then I just have to regret that several of the parties represented by people in the Climate Change Committee, both the Right, the Labour Party, the Left and the Centre, will not support the proposals supported by their representatives in this sample in the report of the sample. This is essentially about taking the Norwegian welfare state seriously in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1605	I took the word to try to answer what I really thought was a rather strange post from Stefan Heggelund. It was kind of hard to get the essence, except that it was about kneeling in front of some plants in California. I haven't, it sounds more like something Stefan Heggelund could think of doing! [[Laughter]] At least a number of claims about the Labour Party's policy have now been made. I think he should read my post again – if he doesn't agree with every word I said, I think Tina Bru was. I boasted of Norwegian oil industry, and then I said that there are some dilemmas. Not discussing these dilemmas is the greatest threat to the oil industry. That's why I discuss them in every meeting I have with the oil industry. In all my meetings with the Joint and Industry Energy Association, the climate is on the agenda: How can they be part of the climate solution, not part of the climate problem? I believe that what Stefan Heggelund had as a recipe, to ridicule it and to say that it is terrible at all to talk about climate and oil in the same matter, is the biggest threat facing the industry. Then I also heard that Stefan Heggelund was most concerned about praising the bourgeois parties. Well, then I wonder what he thinks about the line change we had, where the greatest resistance to Tina Bru just came from the Progress Party. The Progress Party cannot even preface this matter, such a ‘controversial’ sentence that the majority of the Committee ‘shows that man-made climate change and global warming are the most serious threat to the life base of the earth’. All parties agree with that description of reality, except for the Advance Party. Nevertheless, it was against the Workers' Party that Stefan Heggelund chose to correct his shooting. If he thinks it's so unheard of at all to have this debate, I wonder what he thinks about this climate change committee that's started, among other things. WWF and Civita, under the direction of Vidar Helgesen. Not enough with that: in this room, there's one member of that selection, and that's Stefan Heggelund. Therefore, his own posts fall entirely on his own unreasonableness. I recommend him to go home and both read the record of what I actually said in my post, and what he himself has been on in the climate change committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1616	I would like to thank the representative of Aukust for a good and entertaining answer! I could probably go down from the pulpit now, but I want to answer some of what was said. It is a fact that the Workers' Party has appeared very unclear about what they think about Norwegian petroleum industry. There have been a number of plays, which meant that the representative Barth Eide was almost on some kind of forgiveness tour in the West, where he spoke with the trade movement there, in order to clean up, to make good friends again, precisely because the performances that came from climate and energy policy spokesperson in the Workers' Party caused the trade movement to become concerned. Nor is it a secret that there are ongoing debates in the Labour Party. It is only to be seen in the newspapers all the time about what will be the future of the Norwegian petroleum industry. It's not strange if people experience that the Workers' Party – yes, it's become a cliché to use that word about the Workers' Party, but – maybe it's a little wingy when you talk about Norwegian petroleum industry. It is completely wrong, as the representative of Aukraust says, that I think it is wrong to discuss climate dilemmas when discussing the petroleum industry in Norway. I do it all the time. That was also one of the reasons why I wanted to be part of that sample. There are a number of good suggestions from the sample that you could probably have had a thorough discussion about, other than that three-four representatives from the Socialist Left go to an office, spend 15 minutes writing a Document 8 proposal and then pretend that all other parties are opposed to climate change. First of all, there's a lot of what's the essence of what the Climate Change Committee wrote in its report, which isn't even here at all. Secondly, this is only about the petroleum industry. The Climate Change Committee dealt with a number of themes and sectors. Thirdly, there was also no full agreement on all the proposals that the Climate Change Committee included in the petroleum chapter. I am all for discussing climate and petroleum – absolutely! I also do so with the Norwegian petroleum industry and with the trade movement, even when I have been so lucky to have guests, for example. LO Oil and Gas Conference. But in every meeting we have about petroleum, this is of course a theme. It must be allowed to address that the Workers' Party has not been quite clear in this four-year period on what should be the policy for the future of the Norwegian petroleum industry, and that several representatives of the Workers' Party have spoken about the petroleum industry as an obstacle to climate change, rather than being a participant in the climate change actually taking place on Norwegian soil. If the Workers' Party is going to be quite clear about it from now on until the election, there's nothing better than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1633	Several have not asked for the floor. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1648	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President will also draw attention to the inclusion in the Storting Rules of Procedure of a provision relating to speaking time for such debates by giving an unlimited number of posts to a representative of each party. These speakers have been notified to the President in advance. Members of the government participating in the debate will also have access to unlimited number of posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1657	We are nature, we live by nature, we live by nature, and we have to take care of nature in order for us to still be able to do it. Today we don't. Humanity as a whole lives far beyond ability and acts as if we had many earths. So far, I think we have to thank the one we have. This is the thematic theme of the UN Natural Agreement, the Convention on Biodiversity. This is the theme of the UN's natural year, which was supposed to be last year, but which is in some way this year, and of the forthcoming Kunming Conference, which will upgrade the so-called Aichi objectives of the UN, but which will also ensure that there are clear action plans, and where the UN Secretary-General and a number of others have invited us and other countries to tighten up, update and modernise our natural policies. We live with two major existential crises. We live with the climate crisis, and we live with the natural crisis. They hang closely together, but they also live every single one of their lives. They affect each other, but at the same time they're different. The climate crisis is finally starting to get, at least for a while, the attention it deserves, and it is in a way also relatively easy to understand: we need to reduce net CO 2 emissions as much as we can, gradually down to net zero, and we need to maintain nature's own capacity to bind carbon. There is now a great movement in important countries and organisations, in business and in consumers, towards actually focusing on a net zero future, and creating an economy that goes from fossil to renewable, from linear use and throw to circular re-use, and thus becomes sustainable. The second crisis is the natural crisis. It is linked to the climate crisis, because nature’s ability to provide natural services to humans is an important part of what also helps to resolve the climate crisis or to prevent the climate crisis. It's also about biodiversity, biodiversity and our ability to continue to get the services from nature that we need when, for example, we need. produces food, or all the raw materials we use in our industrial business. The two are just as important, and the natural crisis must receive as much attention as the climate crisis. That's the point of the upcoming Kunming Conference. This debate – which is therefore an own-initiative debate, which we rarely have here in Stortinget – is not a debate that will end with concrete decisions based on a communication or a legislative proposal, but an opportunity to raise our eyes a little higher, a little wider, and look a little big at the major challenges ahead. So we have one globe, but we have some hundred sovereign states plus some partly autonomous territories. Nature is connected. Policy doesn't do it the same way. The ecosystems are interconnected. The political systems do it much less. We don't have every ocean, we don't have every climate, we don't have every separate flora and fauna, but we have every political system and every limit. We can just solve this together. Neither "Americana first" nor "Norway first" are particularly suitable here. This requires collective understanding and collective action, otherwise it simply cannot. The Convention leaves the Rio Conference at the Earth Summit in 1992. It continued to build on our own Gro Harlem Brundtland, who was Prime Minister, of course, but who was also the head of the Commission who developed the very concept of sustainable development, and whose main point was that the people who live today must live in a pact with nature in such a way that they do not undermine the lives of the people who come tomorrow. This is today's theme, that's what we're going to discuss in the future. The important thing now is to have a good debate on how Norway should prepare for the notifications to be made in Kunming. The way in which it is technically implemented, whether it is in May, or exposed to the harvest, or whether it is done digitally, is a little secondary. The most important thing is that Norwegian positions should be notified in this respect. Here we have many allies out there, as usual: the EU, which in its greens also gives work to these questions, and the Biden America, who have also raised the focus on this. What we're after is a knowledge-based policy that takes care of nature and that makes sure that we unite the desire to live good lives on the whole planet with the continued opportunity to support these good lives. I look forward to an exciting debate on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1681	Like previous speakers, I would also like to say that this is an important debate. It's probably a debate that Barth Eide basically likes better than me. Here can be a reference to international reports and lectures, and it becomes a quick global perspective. There are debates we know that Barth Eide thrives in, and one doesn't have to adopt anything. [[Laughter]] Nature faces many challenges, but so does it in Norway. I've been sent, probably like many of the committee's members, a discussion note from the WWF. I haven't read everything. There's probably a lot where I'm skeptical about and disagree with, but there's so much we can agree on of the challenges we're facing. Clean air, clean water and clean soil are something we all want, and we know that there is an increased pressure on nature. Our land use is a challenge. Then we have to look at what we can do to get to that. We have an overexploitation of the area today. Why do we have that? Our land use has to get a cost. It costs too little to build down the area today. If we take soil protection as an example, the authorities have always had clear targets over all years. What does the practice in Kommune-Norway show today? Soil protection always loses. It's just a difference that it takes some places a little bit longer than other places. I have suggested many times that we have to introduce replacement soils. If you are building up food, you have to replace the same built-in food with other soils of the same quality – principles that you could also use in nature. We see the land use in our cities today. You can see some enclosed areas, where farming is to a great extent over. It's overgrown, but it's not overgrown, because it won the soil protection for a short period of time. Then you jump over it, build collective axes that suddenly become one mile longer, to billions. It costs a lot of money, because you protected 20 goals of land that was important that time. After a couple of years, it's no longer good for the farmer, and then we stay standing with an expensive land policy that hasn't given us anything, and that's no longer the operation of the earth. We should have a system where we worked and said to the builder: you should be allowed to build down the 20 goals, but you have to replace them – you have to replace them with equivalent land somewhere else, so we can run agriculture. Then a farmer who had equivalent soil, somewhere else, had grown new, and we had maintained the same food production. I'm so tired of listening to people who say no, we can't grow new soil, because it has so much worse quality, it's not the same rate of return. Think of that attitude that would also have existed 100 years ago! That's the soil we're growing on today, which was new that time. We have to think new. We have to think about new systems. We have to replace the old with the new. It must cost money to use nature. If we have a soil protection system, a substitute soil system, we could introduce the same thing around nature. It's about wanting to introduce a grip that allows our nature to get a value, a value that allows us to preserve it. With today's system, soil protection loses, and with today's system, nature loses.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1696	The centre party is concerned with natural diversity, but the centre party is also in a proud tradition where the best thing we can do for nature is use it. The world's population has increased sharply in recent years, and so has our consumption. It has led to a greater global pressure on nature and biodiversity. Loss of nature is undoubtedly a major global challenge. However, it is important that a new global nature agreement takes into account that both challenges and solutions will differ greatly from one country to another. Norway has unique opportunities and a high potential for the further development of a circular bioeconomy based on production and harvesting, both in the sea, on land and not least in renewable energy production. It is therefore important to develop a framework that is not only restrictive but stimulates natural use that provides good climate effects and smart environmental solutions. Often when we talk about nature, very many of the proposals are protected. The centre batch is skeptical to general requirements for protection percentages. There is little targeting if the objective is to reduce the global eradication of species. In order to reduce endangered species, each country must take responsibility for its species. For the Central Party, it is important that a new international framework for nature takes into account that both challenges and solutions will be very different around the world. There is reason to recall that the pressures on nature in Norway are relatively low when compared with other European countries, including in a global context, and that both authorities and Norwegian businesses have been working systematically for many years to preserve biodiversity. There is also reason to recall that biodiversity in Norway is the result of both natural assumptions and human influence over the last 10,000 years after the last ice age. The short period from the ice age means that very little species are found in Norway that are actually special. In addition, the cultural impact during this period has been of great importance both to the species here and to the size of the population of species in fact. Without that cultural impact, there would be more of species related to pristine nature, while there would be less of many other species that are important today. Most of the land we have today has been in historical use, and it is this use that has given us the basis for the biodiversity we have in Norway today. Although Norway wants to play a driving role in an ambitious global regulatory framework for nature, we should be able to assume that Norwegian traders do not agree to the requirements of an international agreement which requires Norway to implement measures for which there is no factual basis. We cannot see in the Center Party that the present draft of the new global framework takes that into account. Here there is a more general emphasis on high levels of protection, and it is not taken into account that biodiversity targets will vary from country to country. It is therefore important that a new global framework for nature does not focus on high levels of protection, and that we actually use the nature we have today in a good way. It is important that Norway emphasises that a new global framework for nature should not lead to natural leakage. Then you must avoid demands for, among other things. high levels of protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1711	We shall suspend the debate on substance. 7 to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1723	Then we're ready to go to voting. We start with the remaining items from Tuesday's map, case no. 8 to 10 on Agenda No 47.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1737	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Gisle Meininger Saudland on behalf of the Advance Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests clarification of the legislation, in line with the request decision 927 [[2015-2016]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking to ensure that users registered as new beneficiaries of municipal and/or state benefits are informed at an early stage that stoppage or reduction of benefits will be a consequence of reservation against work or activity for religious or ideological reasons.’ The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1759	The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1778	During the debate, Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to promote the legislative proposals required by the Working Environment Act in order to ensure a real right to full time’. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1793	The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1824	The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1 to 5 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1863	The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1882	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to develop a national digital watch system for available sign language interpreters throughout the year, minimum for health institutions both nationally and locally.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1915	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to promote a comprehensive plan for the health provision of hearing impaired persons, which identifies the need for hearing care and proposes measures in the field of investigation, diagnosis, allocation of hearing equipment, follow-up, rehabilitation and mastering.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1939	A total of 14 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party the proposals No 2-4, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 6-10, from Kari Kjønaas Kjos on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 11-13, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 14, from Kari Kjønaas Kjos on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party Proposal No. 1 was drawn during the debate. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11–13, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that Hospital Building HF develops a new model for the development of activity and capacity needs. The model must ensure that healthcare businesses plan new hospital buildings according to needs and expected demographic and epidemiological developments, and not based on expectations of efficiency improvement, further cut-offs in daily treatment and assignment to municipalities.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: «The government asks the government to amend the hospital financing model so that hospitals are covered by the same budgetary and accounting system as municipalities and county municipalities.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and come back to Stortinget with a proposal to wind up the health business model and to establish a management system with autonomous hospitals under regional governance. Such a change must ensure popular governance, local and practical management and employee participation.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e1991	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 9 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortingen with a case to change the organisation of hospital services by abolishing regional health companies and allocating tasks between a national management unit and individual health businesses.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with proposals to increase the share of input-driven funding to 60 pst. in the context of the revised national budget for 2021.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2013	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all the country’s current and future hospital buildings have good capacity in parking spaces.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2030	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to investigate and propose a new financing model for hospitals, where investment and operations are separated, and where large hospital investments are prioritised by the Stortinget and fully financed by the State budget.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2048	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2– 4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks that all new hospital buildings be planned with a maximum occupancy rate of 85 pst, in line with the OECD recommendation.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary changes to the governing documents for the implementation of hospital building projects to ensure that epidemic protection and preparedness and pandemic preparedness are taken into account in the planning of new hospital buildings.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure the involvement of employees’ representatives in the planning and evaluation of new hospitals, and to place a decisive emphasis on employees’ perceptions and views.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2077	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that hospital projects are built according to real capacity needs and not scaled down in order to comply with a policy-based cost framework.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2094	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that employees are involved in the planning and evaluation of new hospital buildings.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2111	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide measures to help increase the use of contract specialists in health businesses and to provide appropriate information on the size of the enterprise.’ The Right, Left and Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposal. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2149	A total of 22 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-6, by Åshild Bruun-Gundersen on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 7-19, from Åshild Bruun-Gundersen on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 20-22, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20 and 21, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider allowing microbreweries to sell beer with slightly more than 4.7 per cent of alcohol directly from their own production.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to clarify and propose a differentiation of the alcohol charge in order to reduce the cost of alcoholic beverages at points of sale and to increase the cost of shopping.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2183	There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government to provide that serving places that violate the Working Environment Act, or offer wages under a public tariff, may be suspended and inform the Storting accordingly.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2200	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7-19, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal to allow the sale of beer by more than 4.7 pst. alcohol directly from microbreweries.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals to ensure VAT exemptions for the organised tastes of alcohol.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals for amendments to the Alcohol Act in order to allow producers to inform about their own products on their own pages in social media, and to give Norwegian producers the freedom to provide product information on their own beverages on their own website as they wish.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to amend the alcohol law in order to allow the marketing of non-alcoholic beer with the brewery’s/producer’s own logo.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to allow the marketing of alcoholic beverages/alcohols inside the outlets.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals for changes to the law allowing the sale of alcoholic beverages group 1 in the grocery store throughout the opening hours of the store.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to extend the opening hours of the Vinmonopolet so that these correspond to the current period of beer sales in grocery stores.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal to allow the sale of beer with more than 4.7 pst. alcohol in grocery stores.’» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinge in an appropriate manner to introduce national permit to sell beer and door-to-door delivery.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case to ensure that beer and pages ordered within the time of the beer sale can be delivered irrespective of the time of delivery.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case to ensure that packages from the Vinmonopole can be picked up throughout the opening hours of the Post, and thus not to be picked up within the opening hours of the Vinmonopole.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals for amendments to the Alcohol Act to remove the ban on discounting alcohol.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate way to ensure that municipalities cannot decide whether to grant a grant or not on the basis of what it considers to be the entertainment concept of the actor concerned.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2279	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–6, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with the necessary proposals to allow the sale of pages in its own production premises without requiring the raw materials to be obtained from its own production or farm operations.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks for a solution where local distilleries and breweries can sell own-produced goods in their own production premises, in cooperation with the Vinmonopolet.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget in an appropriate manner to examine the legal aspects with the aim of allowing Norwegian beverage producers and entrepreneurs to sell small bottles of their Class 3 products as souvenirs in their production premises in connection with a tour/flavour arrangement.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals to ensure that entrepreneurs and businesses can arrange the tasting of alcoholic beverages at class 3 before noon. 13.00.’» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to amend the alcohol law in order to allow labelling of alcohol packaging with any distinctions and/or prices.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the monopoly of wine itself can choose which accessories to sell and come back to Stortinget with any necessary proposals to ensure this.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2342	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 6, by Åshild Bruun-Gundersen on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that there is no opportunity for municipalities to oppose the introduction of free choice of user choice in the care of the elderly.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2369	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is requesting advice as soon as possible and introducing guidelines for systematic corona testing of staff and residents at health institutions for the elderly and in the home.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2386	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure a review of the impact of the corona measures introduced after March 2020 on the elderly in institutions or related home help and to ensure that they are submitted to the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that all hospitals and hospitals are adequately equipped with infectious diseases and have the possibility of minor alterations. [[location of visiting rooms, isolation rooms etc.]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked by June 2021 to promote a national programme for more full-time jobs, increase basic staffing and recruitment to the municipal health and care services, with measures both in the short and long term.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government does not request the introduction of the system of free choice in the care of the elderly.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2450	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2508	We're going back to case number. 7, and the first speaker is the representative Lars Haltbrecken.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2513	What has nature ever done for us? The sentence is inspired by Monty Python's Life of Brian: «What have the Romans ever done for us?» Of course we don't see it. Nature cleanses the air we breathe in, the water we drink, and the earth we grow our food in. Nature gives us clothes, medicines and materials – everything delivered free of charge. The problem is that when these services are provided free of charge, they are treated as worthless. Ecosystem services are referred to in the professional language. There are services that the interaction of plants, animals and landscapes provides, and we all depend on. Nature is our most important service provider. We humans physically destroy the renewable life-giving services of nature, such as soil, forest, fresh water, mangroves and animal species. Often we discover what nature is worth through disasters. Where the mangrove forest was intact, much more tsunami survived in the early 2000s than when the mangrove forest was destroyed. What happens when the bees, the hops, and other animals that pollinate disappear? In the Sichuan province of China, thousands of farmers must fertilize the fruit trees themselves. In California, they have to import a million bees to fertilize the almond trees. Fertility was free until the bees disappeared. Bees and hops are absolutely crucial for two thirds of our foods and one third of the amount of food we eat. Removing animals from ecosystems can have unexpected consequences. Another surprising example is the griffins. When the drug diclofenak was introduced for cows in China, 97 pst died. in 15 years, by the greaves. Before, 40 million griffons ate 12 million tons of meat from sacred animals lying dead in the quail every year. When the griffins died as a result of the medication, the wild dogs took over. A calculation showed that you got approx. 48,000 more deaths of rabies as a result, and a cost to society of over 100 billion. kr. On the contrary, scientists can tell that after the wolf was reintroduced into Yellowstone National Park, the number of animals and plants increased, because the wolf kept the deer down. Most plant and animal species are not necessarily such charming creatures. Perhaps it feels sad to think that there should no longer be panda, polar bear, penguin and gorilla, but what about the fat cock, the creepy beast and the grey buckthorn snail – species that are ugly, forgetful, small and with names only a scientist can love? The research shows that everyone is useful. Everyone plays a role in the big context, where everything is related to everything. Together, the ecosystem services that ensure human life and well-being form. For some, the protection of nature is something instinctively right, a question of values. For those who want to count values in money, the world's most difficult calculation has now been made. How much do ecosystem services cost if they disappear? We live in a time when today's government has made it easier to build down nature. Have they counted on the loss of ecosystem services? Have they calculated what it will cost us in the future to fill the Repparfjord and the Fördefjord with mining mud? Have they calculated what all the heavy motorway projects that capture valuable nature and cultivate land will cost us? In 2010, the world agreed on the Aichi goals. We should stop the loss of diversity in nature. We haven't done that yet. One of the reasons was that it took a long time between agreeing on the targets, until the actual plans for achieving the targets came. In Norway, half of the commitment period preceded the adoption of the follow-up plan. This was one of the main reasons for the weak fulfilment. That's why we hope that when the world agrees on an agreement in China for the autumn, the action plan comes to meet the goals agreed on, quickly, so that we can get the job started.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2534	There is a new type of debate we have here today, which is little used, an initiative debate, and it gives the opportunity to reflect and discuss without being so polarized. By 2020, we were actually going to be in China and entered into the Paris Agreement of nature. It's been exposed. During the year we've been through, we've all seen how important cooperation between countries and international agreements is. Without it, it would not have been possible to get to a vaccine as quickly as we've done. The UN today points to its important role, but it is also important to start a little with us sea: what are we doing in Norway to help reduce the loss of nature and also reach an agreement that is important to the Earth? The status in Norway is that 90 municipalities have or are in the process of implementing a community plan for natural diversity. It shows that this is not just something the Stortinget is concerned about in a little academic debate on global agreements. This is something that citizens and municipalities take seriously, and that is important for the inhabitants. We have developed an organic base map of Norway. We thus have a good overview of nature types and species, and not least we have an international commitment for some species, such as wild fauna and wild fauna, and we have many debates about caring for the large predators. They are also an important part of the diversity of species. Soil protection, forest protection, watercourse protection, ants and wetlands are several. In concrete terms, we have to do something here. In particular, bogs and wetlands have sailed up as a major part of the debate recently, when the climate issue has become more important. It is important that we do not take holes in ants and wetlands, which are large carbon stocks. The role of forests is also important. However, although we do a lot of good in Norway and are a leading country in many areas, we need to do more. We have a job, among other things. to achieve the Aichi objectives, on which the representative Haltbrecken was in. For the left hand side, it's important that we actually set some numerical targets for protection. The discussion in Norway is about 30 pst., which hopefully is some of what we come up with in Kunming, where countries have an ambition to protect 30 pst. of own land. Norway should actually set itself a target. We have, with Svalbard and the islands, a large area, but we also have important areas to take care of. More people have been interested in appreciating areas. That's something we have to do more. The progress party was also within it. Substitution is also important. Then we have to remember that in the near past, in 2018, when we had the big dry summer, we also had many forest fires. There has never been paid as much in dry substitutes as that year, 2018. 2 billion. kr cost us the dry summer. But many animals also faced a major challenge: drought, lack of water, forest fires that kill. This is not a situation we can keep going. We've seen what the big forest fires in southern Europe and Greece are doing. Then I'll look a little bit at the Nordics and our neighbourhoods. We do a lot of good together, like the restoration of natural areas, but we also have a lot of attention on the sea and the coast. Sea acidification is something we work together against. We're doing a lot of research on it. The cleaning up of plastics in the sea, coming from the world's oceans and landing in our coastal areas, we have had a great deal in common. Finally, I'd like to mention the young. I feel that there is a great commitment in the Nordic region among young people also to take care of nature, it's not just an involvement in the climate crisis. A toolbox, a toolkit, has been developed for young people, for example: At the initiative of the Nordic Council, and we also have an ambition in the Nordic Council – I sit in the Nordic Council and lead a selection there – to bring a youth delegation to Kunming and COP15, just as we do when we are in climate negotiations. We're one of a few countries and one of a few regions that bring the young, but it's important, because it's the ones that have to inherit the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2557	The climate and nature crisis is the same. Climate change is becoming a more important and important cause of loss of species and ecosystems, and in the same way, we know that desertification strengthens both climate change itself and the ability of societies to protect themselves against extremes, floods and races. The natural crisis is acute. Animal life and pristine nature disappear at record speed. Ecosystems that we rely on are destroyed. 60 pst. the wild animal populations have disappeared for 50 years. We are facing the sixth mass extinction in the history of the earth. The last time was when the dinosaurs were eradicated 65 million years ago. Therefore, the UN's nature agreement must be as important to nature as the Paris agreement has been to climate policy. The agreement shall set natural objectives for the period up to 2030 based, inter alia, on: the reports of the International Natural Panel. Norway did not achieve one of the 20 natural objectives set by the world’s country for 2020, the Aichi targets. Norway must therefore work to ensure that this agreement becomes significantly more politically binding than the Aichi Agreement across sectors. Instead of raging nature, we have to start rebuilding it, both near nature and the rich wilderness. Although climate change threatens natural diversity, changes in land use continue to be the greatest threat. Everything that humans do, takes place on a limited planet. Now is the time for us to be the people who must begin to restrict us, especially in rich, privileged countries, and use the place we're already taking up, much smarter. This means, among other things: that we must stop building down nature and food soil, also for pleasant purposes as a cabin. Establishing new cabin areas in a non-interventional nature today is ecological madness. Nevertheless, there is hardly any party, except for the Greens, who dare to talk about it. Agriculture is also important for biodiversity. Animals that graze, enrich the diversity of nature, while the animals are standing indoors in ever larger and fewer uses and the pastures are growing again, we lose diversity in plants and insects and thus also birds, etc. Conversion of agriculture also means reducing total meat consumption and investing in quality and animal welfare over volume. Cultivating feed raw materials for our livestock requires large areas both in Norway and abroad. Therefore, the Green Party will reduce meat consumption at least to the level recommended by the dietary councils. Under Prime Minister Erna Solberg there have been good things done also for nature, but there have also been many hostile acts. Permitting construction in the coastal zone and restricting the authority of objection to the statesmen in order to preserve nature and build motorways through a nature reserve is a declaration of war against nature. It is not better because it is a majority of the Storting that pushes through even more natural disdain in some areas. The Central Party, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have secured this period by a majority in order to stop the expansion of the wolf zone of the Elgang wolf and to erode the Nature Diversity Act in order to facilitate the shooting of predators. This week the Senterung judgment decided that they would eradicate the wolf from Norwegian nature. It is radical, but it is not so different from the policy of the mother party in practice. Finally, in recent years there has been a lot of debate about wind power, and we have to add a few words to it in a debate on nature. Here, too, we should use the space that we humans already take up, more effectively. The Greens are opposed to the construction of new industries in nature and believe that wind power on land must be reserved for industrial areas such as ports and other areas where nature has already been built up. At sea, the potential for wind power is greater and easier to achieve without irreparable intervention, although good natural mapping at the bottom is also important here. I record that several parties have been critical of wind power development in nature, but I also record that there are few parties that are able to be consistent and critical to other types of major interference in Norwegian nature. We have a government that loves to build new, wide highways. The Progress Party, for example, which has been critical of wind power in nature, will build more in the coastal zone, and they are raging against the Environmental Party of the Greens' Programme Committee when it proposes to limit cabin construction. I suspect that the wind force resistance of the Progress Party is more about love for the oil industry than love for nature. We don't have to wait for a global nature agreement to start taking care of our nature. We can commit ourselves, entirely on our own, and make better decisions in this room in the future. It's time to end peace with nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2586	Today I want to do something that politicians don't do very often; I will admit errors. I've worked a lot with climate for a very long time. I've been working on emissions cuts and the big consequences of what we humans are doing, for the climate. On the other hand, what I haven't worked so much with, and not realized the seriousness of, is our deep crisis nature is in. Climate and nature are closely linked. We cannot work for a better climate – which has been what I have focused on – without taking care of nature, just as little as we can take care of nature without saving the climate. It goes both ways. We are in the midst of a global natural crisis, and it is very close to the climate crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have not seen the Netflix film of David Attenborough yet, 'A life on our planet', see it! It's very good. It's very bad to look at, but teaching. Few have lived his life, few have seen what he has seen. The man is 94 years old and has seen with his own eyes the natural and climate crisis change and worsen. The situation today is serious. Every year we throw 100 million plastic bags in the wild. About 1 pst. recycled by what is produced. Every day while we sit here now, a hundred species die because of the destruction of the rainforest. The art diversity has fallen dramatically since 1970, the entire 68 pst. Since the same year, 1970, we have lost 84 pst. of the species that live in fresh water. One in three of the remaining species is now threatened with extinction. Many of these species are also an important source of food for very many around the world. The irony is, of course, that we're building down large parts of the world's biodiversity just to produce food. One third of all the food we produce – while we build that nature – we throw. As if that wasn't enough, our plants have it even worse than the animals. One in five plants in the world is threatened by extinction. I'm going to admit that I'm not a natural person. I'm not one of those sleeping in tents six months. I was not one of those who ran and bought a tent when the corona came. I'm terrified of spiders, and even though I've started saving hops and bees – because I've registered it – it doesn't help the weapon, that is. It's going, and it's just like that. But you don't have to be Lars Monsen to appreciate our nature, and that's how I think it's for most of the Northmen. I think maybe, or hope, that most of the Nordics are closer to me than Lars Monsen, but we appreciate fresh air, we appreciate going for a walk in nature, and we who live along the coast, which is a pretty big part of the population, appreciate very much the clean sea and the clean sea. But this is larger than that. 2021, the year we're in now, could be the year we're eradicating the plant that cures a new cancer cure. It could be we're destroying the algae we need to save more children from childhood diseases. This isn't just about being a ‘tree chopper’, as my daughter has become, but it's about something much bigger. We're doing a lot of good in Norway, we're on our way. We have set up nine new marine protected areas only last year. We have created three new national parks, and national parks where there is protection through use I have very much faith. In Westfold and Telemark we are pleased with that. We have two beautiful national parks along the sea that we are very pleased with, and which I expect all my colleagues here have been visiting. We protect forests in cooperation with forest owners, and we've taken on the leadership trough to take care of our seas. Erna Solberg leads the sea panel itself, and Norway leads it. But the answer isn't, as some on the left claim, just to protect the cabin and the torment. It is to ensure green, sustainable and responsible economic growth, a growth that ensures that we cut emissions – and we need to cut more emissions than what we do to stop economic growth – and we need a healthy management of nature. We have to be able to see these things in context. We need a growth that ensures income and jobs across the country, because it doesn't help taking care of the neighboring forest where you live, if everyone on the small island where you have the protection doesn't have a job. We need the growth that can see this in context, which will take care of forests, water and species – and the people who live there. Loss of nature also means the loss of medicine, the loss of clean air, the loss of the ability to grow food. It means more flood and race, and it means a less robust economy. That's why the UN's nature agreement is about a lot more than space rolls and hubs, which is the ultimate Norwegian example when we meet something that we think is a little uncomfortable, and has to protect, and that blocks development. This is about a lot more than that. It's about more than windmills, which you're opposed to sitting in the 350 square meter cabin and irritating over them. I expect Norway to sit in the driver’s seat and go ahead. We are already world champions of a number of climate action. Now I hope we're going to be the same in nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2607	The year and decade we're inside, is decisive for the climate, and it's decisive for nature. The challenges of halting climate change and the loss of natural disasters are linked, and we need to solve those challenges together. Let me do an example. A dry, reclaimed ant can provide space for several species – i.e. more natural disasters – can dampen the drought and small flukes that result from climate change and save carbon, which slows climate change. In the government's climate plan, we focus on measures that have a positive impact on the climate without going beyond the natural environment. We've done a lot to take care of nature. Last year we created nine new marine shelters. We created three new national parks. We've run 3.3 billion. kr for forest protection. We have protected an area corresponding to the old Westfold state, and through climate and forest activity we are leading in preserving and restoring tropical forests. We have shown leadership in maritime management through the high-level panel of a sustainable marine economy, which the Prime Minister has rented, but we need to do more. The natural disaster needs a corresponding framework as the Paris agreement is for the climate. A million species are threatened, and the world's ecosystem is in poor condition. The UN Panel on Nature has said that a need for radical changes to reverse these developments. Negotiations on a new global framework for nature under the UN Convention on Biological Diversity are ongoing and are expected to end in the fall, but of course it also depends on how the pandemic develops. China is host to the fifteenth meeting of the Parties, where the Global Framework for Natural Disasters is to be negotiated and hopefully agreed. They are not national legally binding targets. These are global policy objectives. Most countries are members of the Convention on Biological Diversity. A notable exception is the United States, but we're still seeing that the Biden administration is on track and in positive motion. I have high ambitions for a strong negotiation result. Norway is active in the negotiations. We want to push the big countries in the right direction and build bridges between south and north. So far, the Convention has no working system to measure how we are going to achieve the global goals. So we've proposed a new system that might remind you a little bit about what we have in the Paris Agreement. The point is that efforts are constantly to be stepped up in a system to help countries meet their global targets, and to report regularly on their actions at national level. If the results are not enough total, an increased effort is required. The Norwegian initiative in this area has received a good reception. The preliminary draft framework is about setting out a concrete direction for the necessary changes that the world needs to undergo. Every day valuable space is lost – a little bit here, a little bit there. An important topic for the negotiations is how we can stop the global loss by nature. We need 100 pst. sustainable use of all nature in the world, and then a protection of some areas. A 30 pst measure has been proposed. the protection of the soil shall be ensured by 2030. Although the goal is a global goal, the countries have to do the job at home. It also applies to Norway. In areas other than the protection area, we humans can produce what we need in a resilient way, and that's where the greatest challenge lies in the future. In Norway, we do a lot of good with knowledge and ecosystem at the bottom, but of course we can also be better. Norway has joined the sea panel's recommendation that 30 pst. by 2030, marine sites shall be protected by marine protection areas and other measures. Coastal states should decide what measures are needed. The government is busy with security measures. We're busy achieving these targets by 2030, and then we need to focus on the areas that are richest in natural disasters. We're now mapping that to make sure that we take care of the most important areas. It's important to have broad involvement. The government has held multiple recording meetings and will complete Norwegian positions in good time before the summit of the autumn. I would like to add that I think it is good that we have had an own-initiative debate on this important issue in Stortinget, so I would like to thank the Committee for that and look forward to a possible exchange of views.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2626	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2631	I want to start by recognising a good contribution from the Council of State. I am glad that there is much we agree on in this matter. That's what they say -- that's what you can say when it's like that, I think. Now I want to remind you that we from the Workers' Party, with several others from the opposition together with us, proposed exactly a year ago a natural risk selection. One should be inspired by the excellent work done by the Climate Risk Committee to assess, in a natural context, both the natural risk itself, that is, how the basis of life is being undermined, how resources are being lost, how biodiversity is perplexing itself, and also the transitional risk in a world that is starting to take this seriously, and like for example. can go beyond those who have an enterprise or value chain based on the permanent withdrawal of new resources and who may then need to go up the value chain to continue their business, for example. Then the government parties were against it. Since then, have the government parties come up with better ideas?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2640	Not taking care of nature obviously means a high risk – risk to the financial industry, risk to the business community and risk to people. I think we have to increase the attention we focus on just how dependent business is on ecosystem functioning. It's a debt in Norway, and it's a debt in other countries. To the question, the government does a lot. For example, we have given money to the OECD to do a basic work on the very issue of natural risk. It is a good project, and it is also natural that there is now a discussion in the nature negotiations. It has also happened a little since last: among other things, France's President Macron has called for the creation of a Task Force on Nature-related Financial Disclosures based on the model of the TCFD that we have in the climate field. It's an exciting initiative. So here's a lot going on, a lot going on. Norway's in, and that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2650	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. I then find that it is agreed, but that it should be done first and foremost in other countries or international organisations. I am not opposed to that, but I still believe that it could be an idea that, just as with a climate risk selection in Norway, we could also look at Norway's natural risk and perhaps in that way contribute to development. But enough about it. My question concerns the follow-up to the Aichi objectives. You have to report on both what you've done, and what you're going to do when you get to Kunming – whether it's now or a little later, you'll probably get there sooner or later. Then I would like to hear how work is going on a concrete action plan, because we have been waiting for that for a while. What is the government actually planning to report back? And derived from that, are you going to lay down at a level that at least has the same level of ambition as what we now see from our friends in the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2657	Yes, the Aichi painting has undoubtedly been very important. But there are also some important lessons to learn from the fact that a global not when they measure a set. In our view, this is precisely the reason why we now have to pay particular attention to the Norwegian initiatives on more reliable systems, common standards to measure, that one reports, that there are comparable reports, and that a pair of targets, so that the combined effort is strong enough. I'm very much for the Aicha, and Norway reports on them. They've been important. I think it's an important challenge now with the meeting we're going to have, and the nature agreement we're hopefully getting in place, that goals are also being achieved. Then you have to work on things that may be a little technical, but that are incredibly important. For Norway, we are constantly working forward to achieve the different goals we have committed ourselves to, for example. the percentage of protection at sea and at sea, where we are increasingly protecting. That's good, because it's important nature we have to take care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2666	I thank you for your answer again. Then I have one last question in this round, and it is about appreciating nature. Quite a few of the posts, fortunately, were in that we have to appreciate nature more. Then we literally mean price, not just value it, but set a concrete value. So at least I understood the representative Halleland so that the Progress Party was now interested in a kind of natural or land tax. I hope that can lead to a concrete proposal. In this case, the Council of State will be aware that we are soon to put in place a system for a concrete price for the reduction of new nature, for example. a charge that could then be used to restore other natures elsewhere in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2673	Yes, this is a very exciting thought and a very good debate. We've taken some steps. In the government's climate plan, we're just talking about this with possibilities to set a price on nature and work on land tax. We've said that it's a work we're going to look at in the future. Of course, it's complicated because there's a very big difference in nature. There is a difference between how valuable it is for natural degradation, for carbon bonding, etc. But that nature doesn't cost zero dollars, it's pretty obvious, so that's something we're now working on, in line with our climate plan. At the same time, I believe that it is also important not only to appreciate nature, but that some areas need protection, and that some types of degradation should simply not be allowed. This is why I am e.g. I'm glad we got through a ban on the breeding of ants. Unfortunately, not all the parties in Stortinget found it too good to support it, but I still think it was an important proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2680	The signal from a number of civil society organisations points to the increasingly closed nature agreement negotiations and process. That's the same pattern we see from a number of global trade agreements, for example. TISA a few years ago. The central party believes that transparency and debate around the process are essential, and I will challenge the government and the Council of State on how Norway facilitates the most transparent way in this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2685	I agree that it is important to have open processes on such important issues. It uses Norway to be a driver for international, even in this case. What we do, among other things, does, is that we are busy including and involving our own civil society. I had a recording meeting in the fall to get recordings, and I'm going to have more, so we can both update on where the process is, and get useful recordings from civil society. As I said, it is also good that we get a discussion about this in Stortinget. Although it is not a concrete matter, it is good to have an own-initiative debate about it. Then we all have to deal with the world we live in, and then it's like when a United Nations system negotiations etc. are the different countries that think different things, including about openness and positions and things like that. But at least we can make sure and promise that from Norway's side we're going to be involved widely in civil society here, keep the Storting up-to-date and be clear about how we work, and what we work for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2692	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I want to challenge the Council of State on another matter, which is also linked to the diversity of nature. In Norway we have a new species, or a newly introduced species, namely the wild boar. As far as I know, the Council of State is concerned that it will not be able to establish itself here in the country, but during the debate on the NRK recently there was also a question related to the wild reindeer tribe in South Norway. It represents 90 pst. of the remaining global tribe of that kind of wildrein – so we have it in South Norway – and I became somewhat in doubt if the Council of State believes that we have a strange responsibility to care for it, looking up to, for example. the Finnish-Russian wolf, where Norway has only a marginal, small part of the total strain. Can the Council of State explain these three species, the responsibility of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2697	Norway has a responsibility to take care of species that belong to the world of Norwegian nature, and the wild rain is a very good example of such a species. Ulf is another example of a species that belongs to the world of Norwegian nature. But in that debate that one refers to, that was the point I tried to make that even if species exist in other countries, that doesn't mean that we can start eradicating them, as many in the party of the representative will when it comes to wolves. Wolves are found in other countries; wolves are found in Norway, but we have to keep the wolf in Norway. Villas are found in other countries, villas are found in Norway – we have to take care of the wilderness in Norway. But it's clear that the Norwegian wild tree trunk is special, in the sense that we have a very large part of it. Yes, there are parts of that subspecies in e.g. Russia, but 90 pst. In practice, it means very, very much what Norway does. I'm here to take care of species that are in Norwegian nature. It applies to both wild and that applies to wolves, and I hope the representative Myhrvold agrees with me in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2702	I feared for a while that we would get an entire natural debate without getting into the wolf, but finally the world fell into place again. That was good – but that was not what I thought I should ask. On 11 January, the Prime Minister attended the natural summit where the need for 30 p.m. the protection of the planet was discussed. The French President then informed that more than 50 countries had supported this, to prevent the eradication of species and to curb climate change. Norway was not among the 50 countries. Then we hear the Council of State Rotevatn today talk about the need for 30 pst. protection. We also hear the representative of the Left, Mr Kjeseth, say that Norway should support the 30 pst target. the protection of own sites. I now want to ask the Council of State whether the Norwegian Government has concluded that Norway will support this goal and go in for the protection of 30 pst. of its own territory.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2709	First, it's important to say that in the discussion that goes around 30 pst. protection, it is about setting a global goal, and it will understand, all the time many of the countries that have joined that coalition are not in the vicinity of protecting 30 pst. in their country. So we talk about it on a global level. Norway has an active protection policy and has protected larger parts of our area than the other Nordic countries, and we want to protect more. As I said in my post, through the work on the sea panel, we have joined the goal of 30 pst. of the sea area, that there should be a clear protection. When it comes to the goal that was raised in the CBD negotiations for a 30 pst. global goal there, the government is now discussing it and will develop our positions in good time before the meeting. As I've said in a couple of articles, we're going to have ambitious goals. We thought it was good, but we're also because one has a system that means that the measurements are reached. That was one of the challenges with the Aichi targets. They were very good, but because of reporting rules etc. has not managed to get as far as one should. We have to deal with both.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2718	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2724	Science has never been clearer about the loss of nature, species and populations than the report of the International Natural Panel in 2019. They've proved scientifically that we have an accelerating natural crisis hanging over us. It also has the WWFs Living Planet Report – the last time in 2020 – and produced catastrophic figures for the reduction of animal population in the world. Thus, during my adult life, the global population of vertebrates has been reduced by about two thirds — 40–50 years. At the top of this, there is much evidence that the emergence of diseases such as covid-19 is due to environmental damage. In my former profession, I filmed the rainforest at Borneo, where I sailed with a motherless orangutan tongue on the prisoner. I might not have done that today, but the habitat was sloppy, and the mother was killed. The world is now to some extent aware of the climate turmoil we are facing. The natural crisis, on the other hand, is much less aware of it. The Natural Panel notes that this threat is as great as the threat from climate change. Most people have heard about insect death, and most people notice it if they think about it. It's not a positive thing that we now about no longer need to wash the windscreen on the car for dead insects after a ride in the summer. Just a few decades ago it was absolutely necessary. That was one example. Climate change is the main cause of many species and habitat types being threatened by climate change: land changes with cultivation, expansion, degradation and subdivision are the causes of the loss of natural diversity. It clearly fixes the Nature Panel. It is seaworthy that Norway was actively involved in the UN Summit on Bio diversity last September, and that more than 80 Heads of State have now agreed to reverse the loss of biodiversity by 2030, but as with the climate objectives: what will countries do about it? That's the big question. What will Norway do in its own country? Here I am sincerely concerned. When the wrong land management is the main point, the government has gone completely in the wrong direction. They have indisputably made it easier to build up areas through a lot of grips, among other things. by shearing the institute of objection. Then I hope that the representative Westgaard-Halle's bad conscience and honest awakening in this infection in the Right. We simply have to think differently, in both rhetoric and action. Just as we have climate targets, climate budgets and climate accounts at all levels, which are vitally important, we need to do the same in terms of biodiversity targets, land budgets and land accounts at all levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2737	I think the post of the representative Lene Westgaard-Halle was good, and I think the honest realization that many of us may have thought more about the climate than about nature is good, and that more can share it. I would also say that votes for my part, and for our part. It's a good idea to say, because both of these things are important. In fact, we have been very concerned with nature protection, and growth and protection are an old theme, but then it was like that it was primarily about what was to be protected, in the real meaning of the word, and perhaps less about how to use and harvest. You shouldn't stop living off and off nature and stop harvesting from nature, but you have to learn the difference between harvesting sustainable and overharvest. So we need a cross-sectoral idea. This has implications for each sector, but also across sectors. This has to do with fisheries, agriculture, transport, consumption, production, the financial industry, industry in general, trade flows and trade policies. I think the challenge now is that we have to learn to do what we are actually doing to some extent in terms of climate change: to understand this as an integrated and holistic challenge – which has many expressions in many directions, but which is a global challenge – where we need to have a few, overall goals about what we want to achieve. So it's to preserve nature, to preserve nature's ability to reproduce itself and to continue to provide natural services, and to preserve the biodiversity that nature needs, and that we need, because, as I initially said, we're nature. We're nothing but nature, we're part of nature. In my motion, we have been concerned about the relationship between creating and sharing – that we need an active business that is adapted to time, that creates values that you can share, and then you have to share to create more. That's the social-democratic basic idea, and that's what it's been for a hundred years. Social democracy is now taking over, and I think that also applies to all other political movements – or at least I hope so – is that creating and sharing must take place within the limits of the planet's tolerances. When the first ideas about this were formulated, nature seemed to be unlimited. The earth was rich, the earth was great, and the people were few. Now it's about the other way around. Human beings are many, the earth is very limited, and you have to deal with this within the limits of nature and the planet. The good news is that this is completely possible. This is not Rocket Science, as it is called. This is possible with known solutions and known technology. Circular economy is not a distant dream; it is a reality that can be achieved through clear grip. Going into a sustainable world is possible, but our economic models have to take it in. I think that's something we all have to think about. You will still have healthy and good discussions about more market and more state, but the framework must be that it is not possible to exceed the planet's tolerance limits. It simply won't be.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2750	I fully agree with the last speaker. We have three main tasks: we need to cut emissions, that is, end with all fossil emissions by 2050, we need to have more nature, and we need to establish a global market economy within what is nature's resilience. That's the problems we have. I thank you for having this debate on the Convention on Biological Diversity, and for taking into account what it means for us to have more nature globally. It's not just about preserving, but it's about stopping a development, driving it back and getting more nature. Then we have to have an overall administration, as the Council of State says, of 100 pst. of the areas, and 100 pst. of the areas globally. We need more protection, because it is important to have it at the global level, but we also need to ensure that we have representative protection in Norway. Then it has to be obvious that we have to have 10 pst. forest protection and that not every proposal is a separate fight. We also have to look at the whole value chain. That's where the circular economy comes in, of course. How do we use the resources? But this also applies to the food production we have, both in Norway and internationally. We need more regenerative agriculture, where one builds up and repairs natural circuits, and where one binds carbon. We must combat global environmental crime, which is driving the destruction of nature in large parts of the world. Here we also have a big message that has been presented and that we need to follow up both in Norway and internationally. We have to take international responsibility. Norway has taken a leading role with its maritime initiative, and we also have a leading role with the forest initiative, taking care of rainforests. I really expect and take it as a matter of course that Norway is leading the negotiations – and we do – and really try to get the world to agree on what is the highest possible level of ambition. However, in addition to the agreement, it is important that countries with high ambitions agree to implement measures, and that we are part of the high ambition coalition that we also need to work on preserving nature in the years to come. I believe that if we get an agreement that can build as much as possible on the Paris Agreement – that one also has to report on the implementation and that one gets a gradual reinforcement of the agreement over the years – we will notice the same thing as one did with the Paris Agreement: when the agreement is in place, it is not just about the international objectives, then the attention is also much more focused on what we are doing ourselves. Norway has to follow the same objectives that we can achieve internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2761	This is a good debate, with a lot of articles, and I'm very happy with the commitment we have here. So we're not going to deny that we're also in some dilemmas. The average age for us who are on the pulpit here, I'm going to estimate 45 years. Most of those who post here are between 30 and 60 years old, and it's just in our generation the loss of species has increased. We are in a period when very many species are lost, and we are beginning to notice the consequences of both climate change and the loss of nature. It's human activity that's the source of this, so we have to go in ourselves to stop the wallpaper by nature, and also restore. It'll cost, and that's a little bit in the perspective that the representative Sandra Borch is talking about in the last 10,000 years. Yeah, that's a great number, but that's the 10,000 next we're going to save, and then it's in our generation we have to do something. The loss of nature cannot continue as it has now. Then we won't be here in 10,000 years the same way we are today. Then, too, it will be to quantify an objective of protection an important debate. I'm not going to suggest anything here right now, but it's a debate we have to take on both sides of our policy. The left has at least stood up here today and said that we want to figure out a goal, and like the global goal. Then I hear it cracks a bit on the other side. I have not heard anyone say anything about it from the Workers' Party. SV was inside it in a line chord shift. The centre party was very clear that it was a little topical. There was great scepticism about tying up a protection — each country had to take responsibility for itself. But that is exactly why we are going to Kunming: this is a UN agreement, and we have to commit each other. Each country does not do enough, and then we have to set common goals to actually implement. Of course, we're going to facilitate use. Without living and breathing for nature and putting it into use, we have no place. The climate risk committee has been a topic. In Norway, we have taken the lead with the Climate Risk Committee, and funding is also an important part of taking care of nature. Here I think Norway has something to do with and has learned from the climate risk committee. We've converted a lot of our oil values into a huge global fund, and we need to be able to use it for both microfinance, youth and women in a way that will make the next 10,000 years as good in 10,000 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2774	It's been an exciting debate. It's very good that we get this theme up. This is something we should discuss more, because loss of nature must be, as many have encountered, the most under-communicated crisis in the world. It's a threat in itself, and then it's a threat to all life here on Earth. Everything is related to everything," said Gro Harlem Brundtland, and there are in a few contexts it's more right to say than just in debates about nature. The eradication of one species has an impact on other species. For this reason, I would say that from the Labour Party – and I believe from a total stagnation – we want the government and their skilled dealers only a lot of happiness in the important work towards a nature agreement in Paris. They have our support, but they also have our expectations, expectations as to what role Norway should play. Norway should take the lead in setting up an obligatory agreement with both objectives and follow-up. Norway should contribute to the knowledge we have in other areas, for example: in the work on management plans, or other work where Norway has good experience, and then we should contribute money, where we can make a difference, by combining money and policy. The Rain Forest Initiative is such an initiative. I believe Norway should look for other initiatives, including on the nature side. But the most important thing we do, of course we do at home, because it's at home you actually do the job. Nature is not saved in a meeting room internationally. It is saved in what is done in each country, in each community. It is not that nature is threatened by one major expansion; nature is threatened by the sum of all small expansions, all small decisions, often weighed against other important considerations. That is why I believe that nature must now become heavier. That's why I disagreed when this government moved the plan department out of the Ministry of the Environment. I believe that it was a wrong decision to make. I disagree when today's government boasts that the governor has less influence, and that the municipalities can now do more as they please. I disagree when the Right now goes to the choice that it will be easier to build in the beach zone. I think this is going in the wrong direction. The most obvious example of conflict here at home was when Linda Hofstad Helleland went out in the spring and said that now we have to take less account of the environment because of the corona, that talking about the green shift is from another time. When she was criticized for that, she said, "No, I didn't mean the climate, I meant nature." She said, "We've said no to tens of thousands of jobs because we've put protection before growth." Now we don't have that luxury anymore. There's so many wrong ways. First of all, it's actually wrong. Secondly, it is very wrong to talk about nature as a luxury. Thirdly, there's a terrible crazy analysis of the corona that we're going to take less account of nature. And if that's what we've learned, it's that nature, human beings and economics are connected. And fourth, it's a debate from another time. There are no longer debates between growth and protection. We have to be able to combine it. That's why we have to put in place a circular economy that just means that we're reusing all the resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2787	Maintaining nature is perhaps the world's best climate action because it captures and stores over half of all carbon emissions. So natural carbon storage in the soil, in the forest floor, in the cultural landscape is our main tool to reduce the content of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. We have to bring this with us, and this is how the conclusions of the natural panel and the climate panel play. It is therefore regrettable to register closely, where I am sitting on the Transport Committee, how one extension project after another so delicate and incompletely deals with the so-called unpriced consequences in its assessments. In good reports, the NRK has shown how large road projects such as E39 cross bogs for bogs, with large greenhouse gas emissions and natural degradation as a consequence. That the government will at all in 2021 accept proposals to have an unnecessary four-field road crossing a nature reserve in one of our main inland delta areas in the Gudbrand valley, is another example. We have to change this. It is probably almost unnecessary to point out the incredibly poor biological studies carried out in wind power development in Norway. It has also come to light. That the hugely dense forest road network is becoming increasingly fine-masked, back to being subsidized and built up until the last hooks of hard-to-reach old forest, is another example. Uncritical cabin construction is one more. We can no longer rely solely on these smooth mathematical models of so-called socio-economic utility in the development of culture either. What about the natural values? These are largely subjective assessments. It is crucial in such a situation that we have good biological research at the bottom – of course it is a prerequisite – and that we have case handlers with a natural background, local and national. We have to go in a direction of area neutrality in the same way as with climate neutrality. This must involve all parties both in their vocabulary and in the programmes before their national meetings in the spring. That is where all members of the committee, who are largely represented here in the Chamber, have a responsibility. Then it has to incorporate this into its plans at all times. Finally, I would like to thank the environmental organisations who have made good contributions to this subject. They have made constructive notes with points of purpose and action. This applies, inter alia, to: The WWF through its extensive discussion note, the Kunming Plan for Nature and Humans, and the recording of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2800	I suddenly wanted to take the floor, because the discussion about nature, nature diversity, environmental protection and natural use has followed me since what I think was the first time I spoke about something politically, in 1979. It's still as interesting, and I think it's said very well here. As long as we talk overall, there's a lot of consensus about goals. We all agree that the biggest challenge we have is the climate. My recommendation is to start thinking about the Brundtland Commission and assume that we need sustainable growth, but do not believe that the world can survive without any growth. I agree with the former Prime Minister Stoltenberg when he said that the stone age did not end because it was over, and that is probably the case with the oil age. But then we should use the one-time income we now have from oil and gas to make the most sensible thing we can do for our descendants, for example. invest in tomorrow's renewable clean energy sources. In terms of climate, we're going to compete for the best, most of us. Species diversity is equally important. We agree that we must retain all natural Norwegian species. The Council of State cited this as an example of a species that is quite unique to Norway. I fully agree with that. We can also mention Atlantic salmon as another species we should have a special responsibility for because of our share of the population. The land management has, among other things: Arne Nävra has been good at marking here in Stortinget. It's a challenge we see, not only in terms of transport, but also in terms of cabin construction. We know that sooner or later some one-time resources, like minerals, are going to be gone, and we have to be careful with the management of them. I will use the last time to pay tribute to Section 1 of the Natural Diversity Act. That's really why I took the floor. It was a great pleasure for me to work a lot on the short period I was a fisheries minister, because it was when we worked on the Natural Diversity Act. I'm so glad that it says that nature is going to create the basis for human natural activity, for some of what scares me a little bit in the nature discussion for the time being, is that someone seems to believe that man is an alien species, or not even a species, and does not realize that man is one of nature's own species, and is and will be a user of it. We see it in some points. Hunting resistance is one of those. I want us to hunt for harvestable species in Norway in a sustainable way, so that we can manage them for the future as well. Forestry is another example, where some believe that protecting forests is a climate action. No, climate action is cutting the forest when it's ripe, and then planting new forests. What I fear for the future are those who ‘disappoint’ nature and do not realize that man is a natural part and uses nature under his care, which we must take care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2813	We've seen in the last few days in the newspaper Class struggle a discussion about a timber factory in Hattfjelldal, Arbor, that produces chipboards. The discussion has focused on whether or not the protection of forests in the Nordic region would undermine the access of resources to this particle board factory. It's one thing that clearly shows the need for us to get speeded up in our work on circular economy. This factory in Hattfjelldal is, as I know, the only timber factory in Norway that produces particle boards partly based on discarded wood – on wood waste. Every year we throw something like 700,000 tons of wood. It's going in the incinerators. There is only a very small part of this that is being painted and used again for different materials. Last fall I visited the Innherred Renovation, where they accept used wood – whether it's kitchen furniture or other used wood – and paint it up and send it up to Arbor in Hattfjelldal. 40 pst. of the particle boards created is made of used wood. If we could have received a circular action plan from the government demanding that at least the public should go ahead and say that a certain proportion of the wood, the chipboards purchased by the public – and I think that it is part of the public building projects – should come from recycled material, then we will use the resources longer, and we will be able to save more of the protected forest areas in Norway from being cut. This shows how important the circular economy is also to take care of nature. We can also see it in other areas. Now there's a lot of pressure to extract new minerals, metals, from the ground and eventually also from the seabed. If we can speed up the process of getting rid of all the electronic dolling things we're dealing with, for example, the need for new mines will also be somewhat reduced, and we'll take care of more of nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2824	This debate on the UN natural agreement is moving gradually towards the end. I think it has been a very good and enriching debate. It's interesting that sometimes when we talk about the really big things, we can talk quite a lot, not to each other, and I think that's positive in this context. A few specific things I take with me from this, is that it is now becoming interested in how to specifically appreciate nature, i.e. in the narrow sense of the word, a price through a natural contribution or a natural tax in some form, which is designed for the restoration of nature elsewhere – because we never get there that we will not use any new nature, but that we are aiming at spatial neutrality. I can delight Arne Nävra with that, for example. is in the Workers' Party's proposal for a programme. We have at least delivered it, and I hope that more people think in that direction. Then there'll probably be some interesting discussions about how it's going to be designed. The main point now is to establish this as a principle. I think it is important to find good models of how to integrate this understanding into the economy and also into the means that the state has to point the direction to the economy. Then, not least, this concept of resource productivity, that is, how to get more goods and services out of the same amount of input factor, that is, the same amount of raw material resource, is important. Then I think in the direction of adding a price to the first use and some kind of stimuli for the second time, the tenth time and the third time use of the same input factor. It will send a signal to the economy that reuse makes sense. So reuse is not just a flea market, it's also melting aluminium and iron again and making new products out of it. I also think it is good that we have a discussion that is so clear from all parties that we have found how important nature is to us, not least the theme that has been discussed by others, and that I also started with, that man is nature. It's important to make a very clear statement. Many would say it's a matter of course, but this was a theological discussion for several thousand years, so it's very good that the representative Dag Terje Andersen remembered that when you created the new natural diversity law, it was fixed once and for all in Section 1 that man is part of nature. It is an important knowledge to include in the further work on this. By doing so, we wish the government good luck in the preliminary work and the trip to Kunming, and also remember that we have the expectations that, among other things, we have. The Auverst representative reminded me of, on the way there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2837	First of all, as committee chairman, I am very pleased that we in the Committee on Energy and the Environment have had an own-initiative debate. It's the first time I've been in on it, and I've been in committee for three years. It's important that we use different debate possibilities. It was the representative of Barth Eide and the Labour Party who took the initiative in this debate in the Committee. It might create a slightly different climate of debate that we get a little horizon over it and feel like part of the planet, the globe. It's also an important dimension we're going to have with us. The representative Lars Haltbrecken was in the circular economy. A large part of the European Green Deal in the EU is precisely circular. It is also motivated by the fact that on our continent here in Europe we have fewer minerals and raw materials to take off than other continents, and we have to use them more carefully. We have to use them better, exploit them longer and therefore recycle them more. The government has done a lot about it. The circular action plan is in a way well under way without actually being physically delivered. There are quite a few hundred million dollars delivered through the crisis packages last year, and it's going on this year, so it's going well. One of the innovations of this crisis is the Green Platform. Yesterday, quite a number of dozens of NOK 300000 were delivered as preliminary projects to start circular economic projects. Norwegian Wood Cluster in my home country was one of those who got NOK 300,000, just because of wood. There are more than Hat Mountain valleys that want to use wood to press chipboards or other. Forestia in Våler in Solør is one of the debates going here in Stortinget. It reminds us that we need to develop instruments also for nature, not just for climate and renewable energy. Enova, Klimasat – we need to develop the ‘Natural kit’ as well. That's one of the discussions that will come. Does that toolbox and tool fit into Enova, or do we have to create something special for circular economy? There are many exciting debates that stand before us, and in this there is a rather broad menu. I hope that we can take more of these debates, about what is involved in developing the toolbox we need here in Norway, not just those hard-boiled debates in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2852	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2872	I'm promoting the interpellation on the conditions of research because the coronary apathy has given us a reminder of how dependent both Norway and the world community are on research. At the same time, Norwegian research conditions are partially undermined as a result of the same pandemic. This is a somewhat general problem that the government must be aware of, and be prepared to do. We live in an uncertain time. The pandemic threatens health, economics and well-being. But one thing is certain: people have got their eyes up on the importance of research. International efforts in research on both viruses and vaccine development have caught the attention of an entire world. We have experienced how dependent we are on research, and the confidence in research has increased. Without research, we had no chance of getting control of the pandemic, and this is an example that has transfer value. Research is also necessary in order to be able to address other global challenges. We need knowledge and innovation to solve climate and energy crises, meet demographic change, develop new, sustainable jobs, ensure a solid future welfare state, etc. That's why it's important not to let the pandemic weaken the researchers' ability to fulfill their important mission. On 7 January, the Research Association presented a study which reveals that universities and higher education institutions are significantly affected by the pandemic. Research is being put on hold, and many other findings give cause for concern. The so-called corona survey was launched in the autumn of 2020 as a large sample of the research association's own members at both private and state universities. The research team itself summarises this as the main findings of the study: Scientific staff have spent much more time teaching and less time on research in 2020. Much research and development work has been interrupted or delayed. Almost all fellows and postdocs have been delayed, but few of them have received sufficient extension and support. Half of the teachers are not sure that the students are well educated in the new digital educational situation. Many employees have worked a lot extra, but the additional work is slightly compensated. Then I would like to say that it is profitable that the Research Association conducts such a survey in a demanding time. At the launch itself, the director of the Research Association said that the study shows how the corona affects the core activities of the institutions – i.e. both research and education. Her assessment was that this cannot be solved at institutional level alone, but that it is a political responsibility to meet these challenges. That assessment I share, and that's why I've traveled the interpellation here today. Some of these problems I think one should be able to deal with immediately, while some require more systematic correction and perhaps other political measures than the government has taken so far. Some of these are also lessons to be learned and should be taken into account in the future development of the sector. The national framework for the research sector is very important. That's why I'm asking the Council of State why the government parties have reduced the funding for research. Good governance requires a good knowledge base, and I also ask why the government parties have rejected a broader investigation of Norwegian researchers' working conditions. More specifically, I ask how, in the future, the Council of State will follow up the study that I have referred to, and ensure good recruitment and development of the research sector. The working party has high ambitions for the knowledge nation of Norway. Since 1930, the value creation here to land, except for the petroleum sector, has doubled in real terms, but it was before the pandemic. Of course, much of the basis for this growth lies in research and higher education — together with the development of a welfare society that participates in as much as possible, and wise management of natural resources. Research is a prerequisite for development and growth. It is essential that the government provides a framework that allows researchers to create new understanding, insight and innovation. Norway needs it for future competitiveness and to meet challenges of the kind we are currently facing. We are not alone in seeking innovation and conversion. In a global crisis, everyone wants to secure future national income and resilience. I thought the rolling of the long-term plan for higher education and research must be a good opportunity to be ambitious on behalf of Norwegian research. It's, as far as I can understand now, so little is going on. Now that the confidence in research is greater than for a long time, and larger parts of society see the value of research, this should be a momentum for the Council of State to mobilise the necessary resources and thus underpin the greater future return of the potential that research and higher education can provide. I would challenge the Council of State because this is a very important part of the government's responsibility in preparing proposals for a new long-term plan. Recently, I had the pleasure of going to port a sample work under the direction of the Workers' Party, where we discussed some of the major challenges for higher education, research and competence. Some of those recordings I want to raise up here. In fact, my first point is that Norway needs a clearer policy to strengthen research. In principle, the government should at all times assess whether the funding and organisation of research is good enough to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves as a nation. The Korona crisis and falling oil prices hit the Norwegian economy twice. We've been in a special position. Now we have to turn into competition with many. Norway should then increase the overall allocation of research to society. It is the only dangerous way to change and growth: to go through investment in research, development, education and innovation. For 2021, the Labour Party proposed a significant strengthening of the research budget because we believe that we need a policy that enables Norway to address the major societal challenges. We want more for, among others. climate, sustainability, development of society and welfare. But the government's government budget ended up cutting higher education and research. Against the sector's protests, the government made another flat budget cut in the university and higher education sectors, and they suffocated the so-called ABE situation in the last poll. We in the Workers' Party brought back half of this cut in our budget proposal and we promise that when we get into government it will end. So if Norway is going to make the big changes we're facing, we have to have a government that's not just talking about increasing knowledge investment, but actually prioritizing them. So to my second point: the university and higher education sectors have undergone major changes in recent years. One thing is that the coronary apathy clarifies many of these challenges, but it also makes them more urgent. What's important is that this pandemic comes in addition to the challenges that academia faced before, and they're there and are equally challenging even though the pandemic gets the most attention now. It has not been admitted that these changes are well managed by neither the universities themselves nor national authorities, and we really do not know enough about how this has affected the working conditions of researchers. Therefore, not only the research association’s study, but a general strengthening of the knowledge base is needed so that research policy can improve. That is why we, together with the red-greens, proposed in the budget an investigation into the working conditions and career development of researchers across the research sector. But it was voted down. We think that's a pity, because we see signs that the research career is becoming less attractive, and we know that Norway needs to recruit many new researchers in the years to come. In order to recruit and maintain good researchers, the working conditions of researchers need to be improved and, above all, the high proportion of temporary work in the academy needs to be reduced. It also has a gender equality page, because we know that there are more women than men who work temporarily in the academy. Measures to improve the framework conditions for researchers must be an important task in the future. The Labour Party should give priority to this, and we would like to know what the Council of State will do to follow up the challenges pointed out by the Swedish Research Association – how he intends to build up the knowledge base and strengthen research. The debate on how best to ensure the future of research is important for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2930	Let me start by thanking the representative Sandberg for lifting this interpellation. It's an important discussion, which I look forward to having in the hall today. I agree with the representative Sandberg that research has been crucial for the management of the pandemic – without research no vaccines of less than one year. High-quality knowledge production is important irrespective of the pandemic situation. Both research itself and our ability to implement research are important when developing sustainable societies and implementing the green shift. This is why the government has focused on strengthening Norwegian research, based on the objectives defined in the government’s long-term plan for research and higher education. The overall objectives of the Long-term Plan are to strengthen Norway’s competitiveness and innovation capacity, to meet major societal challenges and to develop excellent professional environments. The representative Sandberg claims that the appropriations for research have fallen. That's not true. There has been no reduction in the appropriations for State budget research and development. In the state budget for 2021, R & D appropriations are estimated to be approximately 40.9 billion. kr, which is a real increase of 2,1 pst. from 2020 onwards. In 2018 and 2020, there was a small real decline, but no year has been a nominal decline in R & D appropriations. The government has increased research and development appropriations by about 14.5 billion. kr since we joined the government in 2013. This corresponds to a nominal increase of more than 50 pst. and a real growth of 24 pst. for the period 2013 to 2021. Norway invests a lot to participate in the largest and most important international educational and research cooperation arenas: Horizon 2020, now Horizon Europe, and Erasmus+. This is crucial for Norwegian research and education environments. Participation in Erasmus+ helps to enhance the quality, relevance and attractiveness of the Norwegian education system. Participation in the Framework Programme provides Norwegian research environments with access to knowledge and networks that we cannot reconstitute with national instruments alone. Norwegian research institutions, enterprises, health enterprises and public enterprises have received 2.46 pst. – or 13,6 billion. kr – of the funds mobilised so far in the Horizon 2020 Framework Programme. The level of participation more than fulfills the government's ambition to take home 2 pst. by the funds mobilised in Horizon 2020. The Government proposed in Prop. 1 S for 2020-2021 that Norway joins Horizon Europe in the period 2021-2027 and Erasmus+ in the period 2021-2027. Participation in Horizon Europe is estimated to cost Norway about 25 billion in total. kr in quota expenditure at current prices, while total participation in Erasmus+ is estimated to cost Norway around 7.7 billion. kr, this also at current prices. There will be a proposal of consent for the Storting about this spring. During the pandemic, the government has been committed to further increasing the capacity of Norwegian research and education institutions. Through Action Packages in the Revised National Budget for 2020, the government strengthened inter alia: higher education with about 5,000 new places of study at universities, colleges and colleges, and at the same time we set up 250 new recruitment positions. The Government, through the Research Council, has strengthened the efforts for research and innovation under this pandemic. In 2020, the Research Council launched a total of 480 million. kr to mobilise industry for research and innovation, and approximately 400 million. SEK for research on, among others: combating the coronary virus, health innovation, climate and environment, social security and the economic impact of the pandemic. Although there is little doubt that the research effort made to develop vaccines is essential for leading us out of the crisis, there is no doubt that the pandemic has affected the ability to research and change working life of researchers and teachers in Norway. The findings of the Research Association’s study demonstrate this with clarity. The study confirms the impression I have received over a year of corona meetings with the heads of universities, colleges and research institutes, student organisations, trade unions and interest groups for younger researchers, and not least the Research Council. To gain more insight into the pandemic's impact on research, I also took the initiative of a separate meeting on this in December. The sector feedback was clear: the protection measures have affected the conditions for research and the employees carrying out this research. There's several reasons for that. Not all research can be done from home offices. When access to campus is restricted, employees have not had access to laboratories and other equipment essential for carrying out the research in several locations. For others, field work has been postponed. Of course, this also affects the progress of the projects. Home Office work also affects creative processes: discussions and exchanges of knowledge are important prerequisites for a good research working day, and the absence of community in working life affects researchers in many different ways. Research is international. Travel is part of working life for many researchers. As a result of the pandemic, travel activities both in and to and from Norway have been greatly reduced. Although the pandemic has shown that we get a lot of work done using digital meeting places, it cannot completely replace the physical meetings. During the summer and autumn, the disease protection situation made it possible to open up shorter guest research stays for researchers and subsequently to remove the restrictions on entry which have affected researchers from third countries by their own resources. The boundaries are now temporarily closed, including for researchers, but we will make a gradual reopening when it is sound. In addition, employees in the sector have made a formidable effort to digitise education. This has been absolutely necessary, but it has gone beyond the time to carry out research and development. After almost a year, we've turned to a new normal. However, tackling the new working life is not the same as the research conducted by the Swedish Research Association. I am concerned about the working conditions of the researchers, and in recent years we have carried out several studies dealing with the working day of researchers and career opportunities of NIFU. While the PhD study in 2019 was launched in the fall, the postdoctoral survey was launched a few weeks ago. These studies led the government to take the initiative before the pandemic, because we need more knowledge about the working conditions and career paths of young researchers, but we so quickly turned the pandemic around on working life to employees in this sector. We therefore started a study of the working conditions of workers in the research sector. NIFU also conducts this study, which was launched on 12 March. Here we will get more information on how shutting down and reducing access to campus has affected the working day of researchers, both professionally and psychosocially. We will learn how the transition to digital platforms, home offices and the family situation at home has affected research activities such as: publication, research cooperation and project development under the coronary apathy. We need this knowledge to deal with the situation here and now in the best possible way, but also because we can learn a lot about how to improve the research situation when the pandemic is over. Both through meetings and studies carried out by the Swedish Research Association, the Foundations in Norway and international studies, such as the Nature study of postdocs, we see that the pandemic has been particularly severe on young researchers. Many have been delayed. It's not surprising what we've been through. However, I have noticed that many of the employees in recruitment positions feel that the handling of delays is unclear and defective. I think that's problematic. In 2020, on several occasions, we have informed the sector that employees in scholarship and post-doctoral positions based on Section 2-3 of the Regulation regulating these posts may receive extensions. Most recruitment positions are funded by the institutions’ basic appropriations or by the Research Council, and delays shall be covered by their budgets. It has also been granted and distributed 40 million. extra to cover delays among scholarship holders and postdocs funded by private actors or by the EU. Delays in research projects and reduction of the feasibility of implementation may lead to young, competent researchers opting away from academia. It is important that institutions now make good use of the space for action they have, in order to avoid losing important competences by discouraging young talents as a result of the pandemic situation. The University and Higher Education Council and the Research Council have jointly developed principles for the extension of periods of employment. Together with the Joint Research Centres, the UHR and the Research Council are now working to identify why the practice of principles is handled differently and the further management in 2021. The management of individual applications will continue to be the task of the institutions and the professional community, but I am following these developments closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2964	Then I have listened with interest to the Council of State's response and I want to say that I share many of his assessments and views, not least on the importance of European research cooperation. I appreciate the dialogue between the Council of State and the sector, and not least the initiative of this NIFU survey. A different study was launched today, namely the study barometer, which takes the pulse every year on how the students themselves experience the study everyday life. It shows that not only research but also higher education is affected by this pandemic. The Barometer and the Research Association study share the view that they provide insight into academic working conditions. They target the students and researchers' own voices. I would encourage the Council of State to actively use the knowledge that is acquired and act on it, because it is a political responsibility to mitigate the consequences of the crisis in which the Academy is. It was not surprising that the Council of State would not agree that the appropriations for research have fallen. It is true that there was a real growth in the government's first proposal for research appropriations for 2021, but it was a completely necessary growth after the government in the years before had faced both a fall in rest and a real decline. The original draft budget would take Norway back to about 2017 levels, i.e. around 1.1 pst. of GDP for research. Then the question is whether it is good enough in the situation in Norway. The current head of the University and Higher Education Council was at least clear when the budget was presented, that it is not. He called for crisis awareness, greater ambitions and a government that takes the steps needed by the nation. The government should invest through the crisis and put more of a percentage of GDP. What happened was that the government instead made budgetary settlements and introduced even bigger cheese requirements at universities and colleges and cut the Research Council. One and a half billion. Of course, both research and studies are affected by accumulated cuts in the university and higher education sectors. We've had this discussion before, but I think it's a little wishful thinking when the government believes that these red tape and efficiency cuts benefit higher education and research as such, for most of the redeployed funds, i.e. savings, are given as earmarked appropriations in terms of time-limited study places. It neither strengthens the sector as such nor builds economic space in general. Those who wear the shoes report that action spaces and core activities are weakened. The pandemic has made great demands on students and employees. Therefore, the government should now show that they are protecting research and education. At first, I had hoped that the Council of State would seize the low-hanging fruit and put in place a national system for extending scholarships and postdocs, which is really delayed because there are so many inequalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2981	Let me start at the same place as the interpellant, which is with the study barometer that was presented today. This is a barometer that confirms many of the concerns we have so far. I said somewhere else today that I wasn't surprised, but it's no good news, just because it confirms not only the importance of physical education, but also the importance of the motivation for the students to learn and stay in the studies all the social life around. That's why it's very important that as we now get control of this pandemic, we quickly reopen the campuses again in the areas where you have mutated viruses. We have tried from the government to meet this as best we can in a situation where many people sit in the home office and do not get to meet each other as much as they want. By gradually opening up around the country, except where there are specific measures, the students and employees now have access to the campus, and we hope, of course, that we can soon also reopen both reading rooms and lecture halls. So it's quite right, as I said at the outset in my first post as well, that I don't agree with the premise that we, as the government or the bourgeois majority in the Biggest, have cut research. There are a lot of things we can discuss and disagree about politics, and there are a lot of different goals we're always going to have fruitful and good debates about, but it's a fact that the funding for research has increased by 14.5 billion. kr since 2013, which is both a real and nominal increase. We can disagree on political action, but we cannot disagree on the facts. That's why I think it's wrong to make it like this, that it's been cut. So maybe the interpellant wants there to be further increases, and I have a lot of respect for that, but it's not reduced, it's increased. In addition, the interpellant was inside and gave the impression that this is kind of bound, ear-marked means. No, this is an increase in basic funding for institutions. On top of that, we have actions that can be applied for and that have been announced as means of competition, for example. to decentralised education services or other things we want to do in addition. One thing is that we are discussing the budgets presented and adopted in December each year, but what should not be skipped is that when the 2020 budget was adopted, it was a different situation than the one to which money has been allocated in many areas after that. This also applies to the research and higher education sector, where we have come up with action packages and pointed out precisely research as an important way out of the crisis, but also established far more places of study, just to deal with many more people standing without jobs or perhaps choosing to start studying instead of traveling around the world or doing other things that would normally be planned. I believe we have responded well to this. That doesn't mean you can't discuss the way forward, and we'll do that, but that it's been cut in research and higher education, is de facto wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e2992	Even if we all care that the world will return to more as we know it before the pandemic, we know that the world is facing major challenges. We don't have to forget that, and we're pretty good at reminding each other. Here researchers have an important role to play in finding the right keys to unlock for the future. Therefore, it is important that we now use time and resources wisely and not downgrade research activity. All parts of the academy have been ready. There is no lack of good ideas and projects, and we know that there are more industrial projects in place. There are applications within programmes that have an impact on employment and innovation in today’s cyclical situation. We have a climate debate that also needs research and facts. If we are to have a fact-based and resilient transition, we must have a well-functioning ecosystem for research and innovation. It is crucial to mobilise resources across the country for conversion and innovation, both locally, regionally and up towards international research. But by nothing it'll be nothing. The institute sector is now experiencing a major loss of income and is missing contracts with the business community and the public as a result of the corona situation. We in the Central Party have proposed to increase the funds both in the revised national budget and in the State budget for 2021 to prevent permits and redundancies and to launch a research project aimed at: both business and public. The pandemic has led to greater market uncertainty. There is therefore a greater need for the state to take risk-absorbing measures into account in innovation processes. Since there are so many scholarships and postdocs that have been delayed because of the Korona, it must be reasonable that they are entitled to an extension. They've set up and spent a lot more time teaching and less on their own research. After seven years of cheese production from the government in the UH sector, the accumulated cut is now over 1 billion. kr. The efficiency cut makes researchers research less and manage more if you look at the results of the study. It's said that after seven fat years, there'll be seven lean ones. We get to it, maybe, after seven lean years, we get to hope that there will be seven fat ones. But I am pleased with the signal from the Council of State to open up that campus, that's good. It's a little incomprehensible when the elementary school and the further education that has the elephants are able to accommodate it. Therefore, the university and university sectors must also be able to facilitate students to meet on campus and get some of the social life that we all need.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3009	First, I would like to say that it should carry employees and students at universities and colleges and in the research sector now, can be facilitated if the government is willing to take initiatives for effective countermeasures. Then I want to go back to my starting point, which is that as politicians we have to admit that the framework for research has a lot to say. One thing is that those frameworks must ensure security and continuity because research policy is so important nationally. I am proud that the Stoltenberg II government took the initiative for the first long-term plan. Now we're about to have a new long-term plan – the roll will start, I assume. The long-term plan that applies as of now, the government's long-term plan, I believe is too vague and general. Norway shall undergo major conversions. Then we don't need a long-term plan that is unclear or non-obligatory, or that lacks powerful priorities. We must have a plan that is comprehensive, concrete and committed, and that provides the research sector with the foreseeable framework it needs, and ensures that we are able to meet the challenges that we as a society are facing. But not only must those frameworks be predictable, but the Council of State certainly agrees, they must also be good enough. I believe that as a nation, we cannot be satisfied that Norwegian R & D investments are below the OECD average and are among the lowest in the Nordic region. So I would say one more thing: the state of the higher education and research sector when the pandemic broke out affects, of course, the overall ability to deal with the crisis. I would particularly like to point out two factors. One is that repeated, flat budget cuts also weaken preparedness here, and the other is that there is a need for a different kind of governance of government knowledge organisations. In the Workers' Party, we have a trust reform in the state. For academia it will mean that we will abolish unnecessary control regimes and make academia a more attractive career path, among other things. by countering temporaryity and promoting equality and diversity. Another important promise is what I had in the past: to stop those flat budget cuts. In reality, the government has imposed on universities and colleges a accumulated cut of 1.5 billion. kr. It is clear that it affects the core business and self-government/autonomy. Trust requires economic room for action. I mean the government cuts in research when you also take these ABE cuts into account. The Labour Party brought back half of the ABE cut in our budget option, i.e. about 90 million. NOK, and we're going to return everything if we get into government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3030	To begin with, the representative Hove: With regard to the right of extension, I explained in my first post that the Research Council and the FFA have now come together to find out what comes out of the fact that the practice is different in these places. But I very much believe, speaking of Mr Sandberg's contribution to trust reform, that these are also challenges that should be solved in the sector – how to extend in a good and correct way, and that you are consistent around all of these places. So the representative Hove also said that after seven fat years, seven leaner. I hear that representatives from both the Centre Party and the Workers' Party repeatedly say that we have cut into higher education and research. I just have to repeat that we have increased the budgets by 14 billion. kr. There have been not only seven, but eight, quite fat years, and there might be a point that there might come eight lean years later if the voters don't make sense, to say it that way. But to be a little serious: I mean that you should never be satisfied and retired, I just disagree with the presentation that you have cut, because on the one hand you have more efficiency, but big budget increases that are far higher than efficiency, on the other. It should lead to a real growth. The representative Sandberg refers to the long-term research plan. I disagree with her that this is a vague, unclear and slightly offensive long-term plan. I believe it is both clear and good and that it has served both the sector and Norway well. It's absolutely right that it's about to roll now. The Government shall submit a new long-term plan in 2022. Research is going to be an important part of that plan too, and I look forward to discussing both with the Stortinget and with other actors in the sector how we can do it even better. We're already doing well, and we have big plans to put it on our own in 2022. Finally, we are also concerned about the conditions of young researchers. We have therefore taken the initiative to present a new strategy for research recruitment and career paths in research and higher education. What should be the main focus of that strategy is the first phase of the career. In addition, we will look at the overall recruitment basis for Norwegian research and specifically address the doctoral position, postdoctoral position and admission position. The strategy is to be presented before summer this year, so I'm absolutely sure that we will discuss the content of it, too, when the occasion comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3043	The debate on substance is closed. So 8 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3060	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3069	In September 2015, the UN General Assembly adopted a hopefully important decision for the world. At that time, the sustainability targets were adopted – 17 sustainability targets, 169 targets, which would apply from 1 January 2016. It is now referred to as the 2030 agenda. It is a prerequisite for the many objectives in different areas that we are talking about here, that they should converge in terms of both economic sustainability, social sustainability and environmental balance. There are a number of areas, including poverty, environmental requirements, a variety of measures to be taken. It is the government of each country that is responsible for following up, and it should be a national and holistic approach. The government has committed itself to annual reporting to the Stortinget, and the Stortinget has given its approval in connection with the treatment of Report. St. 24 for 2016-2017, Joint responsibility for the common future. It was established that the reporting of results is important, that there should be verifiable statistics, and in Innst. 440 S for 2016-2017 was provided with a implementation plan. Part of the UN follow-up idea is that national audits in the various countries should follow-up and assess the efforts of each country at home through their INTOSAI cooperation. That is what the Riksrevision has done by providing Document 3:3 for 2020-2021. Let me stress: the National Audit Board has not evaluated the achievement of the target in relation to 17 sustainability targets or 169 targets. They have assessed the organisation and follow-up of the work of the government, as national audits in other countries have done, including our neighbouring countries in the Nordic region. The national audit is critical to the lack of follow-up by the government. They say that the national follow-up has not been well coordinated enough, and they say it is critical. They say that there has been a lack of involvement of the Statistical Central Bureau in the work on sustainability goals and also statistical follow-up of them, and that it is critical. They say that reporting does not provide good enough information to the Storting on the status and progress of the national follow-up to sustainability targets, saying it is critical. Then they use the even stronger, ‘strongly critical’ concept of Norway’s lack of a comprehensive plan for the implementation of the 2030 agenda. As of 1 January 2020, the municipal minister now in the Chamber has been responsible for coordinating the work and achieving the sustainability objectives. Until 1 January 2020, i.e. until 31 December 2019, the 17 sustainability targets were allocated to 12 departments, and this is stated in the report of the National Audit Office. What we see, that hears, is that when the Riksrevision starts asking questions, something starts to happen, among other things. that one department is given coordination responsibility, but also that it is developing better and more tasks for the Statistical Central Agency on which criteria to follow up statistics and development related to sustainability objectives. That's one of the things that we sometimes see, when the National Audit Office starts asking questions, someone finds out that they have to start doing something, and that's a good function the Riksaudition has. What is very special about this matter is that Prime Minister Erna Solberg, at the same time as the sustainability goals were adopted, was appointed to be the head of the so-called United Nations Driving Committee. In a company with both celebrities and other political leaders, she will be the world's leading leader to ensure that each country follows up. In this context, the Prime Minister was present at the Nordic Council in 2016, and she said: ‘By following up at home, we ensure credibility in our efforts internationally to address the causes of persistent poverty, conflict and extremism, migration and climate challenges.’ The other Nordic prime ministers listened to it. As a result, in Sweden, Denmark and Finland, they submitted in 2017 proposals for an action plan for the follow-up of the sustainability objectives of their parliaments, as foreseen in the position of Stortinget, Innst. Four hundred forty. S for 2016-2017, to be done in Norway. But those objectives have not been followed up in Norway, and the most serious thing is – and that is why it gets the strongest criticism from the Riksaudition – that it has not even been designed an action plan, and now we are four years after our Nordic neighbouring country is doing that job, in the country that has a Prime Minister who heads the United Nations Driving Committee. It's dramatic. The Prime Minister has received a lot of attention internationally and not least from Norwegian media to be an actor internationally, but is therefore failing at home. Then I see that the Minister of Municipal Affairs is saying to the evening post today that it is natural that he, as constitutionally responsible, is the one who comes to the Stortinget, because the fact is that we have said, on the part of the Control Committee, which was quite natural, that we think it was natural for the Prime Minister to meet. That's two more reasons. Firstly, although the Minister of Municipal Affairs is now constitutionally responsible today and has been so since 1 January 2020, this is an overall plan which the Prime Minister himself has been involved in internationally, and it would be natural that she agreed to discuss the matter in Stortinget, but in particular because until 1 January 2020, responsibility was allocated to 12 departments. During that period, which is a large part of the study of the Riksrevision, there is no doubt that the overall responsibility was with the Prime Minister, and it is still with the Prime Minister. I think that's unfortunate for the respect for the Storting. It is clear that the Prime Minister has had a pro-strategic strategy and received many suggestions for his opinions on behalf of the driving committee. It is also clear that the Prime Minister has had a Pins strategy. There's not a government council that walks around without a sustainability pin. But we therefore lack a political strategy and the action plan that Stortinget has said is to be delivered to Stortinget, and it is bad that that action plan has still not been presented. It is particularly bad that the Prime Minister refuses to take part in a public change of words and debate about his inadequate efforts in an area she has been designated as the world leader.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3095	In this survey, the National Audit Office has focused on the implementation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals and how national governance, reporting and follow-up have been. Norway, together with all the other UN Member States, has joined the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The 2030 agenda has 17 sustainability targets, 169 targets and is the global work plan to eradicate poverty, combat inequality and stop climate change by 2030 – a truly ambitious plan. The resolution was adopted in the United Nations autumn 2015, with effect from 1 January 2016. The organisation of governance, implementation and reporting on sustainability targets is a national responsibility, is the responsibility of each country, and requires a national, comprehensive approach. Implementing the UN's 17 sustainability targets involves a lot of work, a new way of working, and it's very time-consuming. It requires good coordination for co-ordinated implementation both in the State sector and between the State sector and other parts of society. It is also important to have a good interaction with the national statistical agencies because data and statistics are essential for measuring the development and reporting on status at all levels. The study we have for treatment is from the start of the implementation of the sustainability targets, namely January 2016, until 2019. It's from the very beginning. The report by the Riksrevision shows that the national follow-up to sustainability targets has not been well coordinated. The National Audit Office points out that Norway also lacks a comprehensive plan for the implementation of the sustainability objectives, and there has been a lack of involvement of the Statistical Central Agency in the work. Nor has the size received sufficient information about the status and progress of the follow-up to the sustainability objectives. We read that the Riksrevision has found out and concluded with. The study from the Riksrevision is from the period until the turn of the year 2019-2020, i.e. before the overall responsibility for the sustainability objectives was added to the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation. The Committee has noted that the Riksrevision considered it critical that the national follow-up to the sustainability objectives has not been organised in a comprehensive and cross-sectoral manner and that the Stortinget has also not received sufficient information on the status and progress of the work. With effect from 2020, the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has been given responsibility for coordinating the government’s work on sustainability goals – this in order to ensure stronger coordination of national follow-up and for pursuing the objectives more closely than has been achieved by 2020, as we read in the report. Under KMD’s leadership and coordination, a national action plan on sustainability targets is now being implemented and the plan is to be presented to the European Parliament in the spring of 2021. Much of the criticism in the Riksrevision report has already been followed up, among others. Statistical central agency is much more involved in the work. They were commissioned to develop indicators, both in 2017 and 2019, which could follow developments in national sustainability targets. These are published continuously on the SSB sustainability portal, which is open and accessible to all. It is the government as a college that has overall coordination responsibility for its policies, including on how sustainability objectives are pursued. Before the coordinating responsibility was added to KMD, a lot of good implementation work was done in the respective departments. These have now again provided expertise and good input to the action plan under preparation. Although the action plan is somewhat delayed compared with that in our neighbouring countries, as we heard previous speakers said, it does not indicate that this has made Norway worse in achieving the set climate objectives. According to the OECD, Norway is among the countries that are actually best placed to achieve the targets by 2030. It is important that overall plans are evaluated and broken down into concrete objectives and measures that can be implemented nationally and locally. If the sustainability goals are to permeate social development, they must be implemented in all the plans we have, and in life we live. I want to refer to a local example from my own municipality of origin, Asker. Prior to the municipal merger of Asker, Røken and Hurum municipalities in 2020, politicians decided to use the UN's sustainability targets as a framework for the design of the municipal plan for the new large municipality. This is a good example of how to concretely and translate international goals and visions into local goals, actions and practices. I know that both other municipalities and companies have been inspired by Asker and have done the same in their municipalities or in their organisations. The example I'm referring to shows how the UN's sustainability goals can become something we relate to in everything we do. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the comments made by the Council of State on the study. He agrees with the National Audit Office's reference to the need for an overall perspective in the field of sustainability objectives. A Council of States, which now has coordination responsibility and a direct mandate from the Prime Minister, will be more able to contribute to bringing forward the strength of the ambitious objective set out in the 2030 agenda, and I believe that this is a good promise in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3118	Both the case rapporteur and Mathisen's representative had good posts where they went through the sustainability goals, and I'm going to try not to repeat too much. However, as many people have experienced, the sustainability targets in the world are the common work plan for eradicating poverty, combating inequality and reducing climate change by 2030, which is one of the major challenges of our time. In addition, the Prime Minister, as a member of the United Nations Secretary-General's instigator group, has taken on a special obligation. I think we should be proud that we have a Prime Minister who has been given that task. The sustainability objectives are very ambitious targets and are well, with the exception of the climate objectives themselves, perhaps the most ambitious political objectives that the state of Norway has committed itself to and for which there is also broad political outreach. It is the national governments that are responsible for following up and ensuring implementation, but I understand that the work on 17 sustainability targets and 169 targets can be labour-intensive, and that it may take some time to get it properly implemented. I myself was the Council of State in the period during which the sustainability objectives came into force and, as the Council of State, was responsible for the follow-up of measures within several of the targets and for the main objective 5 of achieving equality and strengthening the position of girls and women. Gender equality is not only an objective of its own, it is also integrated into all of the 17 sustainability goals. I can assure you that it was a job that the government took seriously at least that time. I clearly remember a committed Prime Minister who really put it on the agenda with the Governments, and we had to report regularly on how far we had come in that work. In the last two state budgets I, as a former government council, delivered the Stortinget, there was also a separate chapter on the follow-up to the UN's sustainability goal. I cannot recall that this was a major issue in the debates here at Stortinget that time. So I'm not going to say that we're going to be happy with everything that's been done, but I still think it's okay to have it working to have everything in place right away. In the criticism that comes in the comments from the red-green parties, it sounds like we haven't done anything. Although our neighbouring countries adopted their action plans in 2017, we must not forget that according to the OECD, Norway is one of the best countries to achieve the targets by 2030. I also want to say that action plans are not what saves the world, it is the action that does. However, it is good that the Riksrevision carried out an assessment of the government’s governance and reporting on the national follow-up to sustainability targets in the period 2016–2019, although much has been done, as one has done in the past two years. As others have said, the national follow-up to sustainability targets has not been well coordinated. Norway lacks a comprehensive implementation plan, the SSB has not been adequately involved in the work, and the Stortinget has not received sufficient information on the status and progress of the follow-up to the sustainability targets. It shows that it is good that the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, KMD, has now been given the overall task of coordinating sustainability objectives. We know that in the spring there will be an action plan. We may be critical and believe that it should come before, but the most important thing is that it should come, and that several of the weaknesses identified by the report of the Riksrevision will be followed up in the preparation of this action plan. In the summer of 2020, the SSB was commissioned by KMD to develop indicators that could follow the development of the national sustainability targets. They will be published continuously on the SSB sustainability portal and are open to all. As I said at the outset, a lot of good work has been done in the respective departments until the end of 2019/2020, which has provided expertise in the work on the Action Plan, but lack of information on development has made it impossible for the Stortinge to remain informed about the overall state of implementation of the sustainability targets. The national audit indicates that the Storting has not received sufficient information on status and progress, and there is a lack of reporting on challenges, priorities and coherence between objectives. Lack of information on developments has made it impossible for the Storting to remain informed about the overall state of implementation of the sustainability objectives, but the Storting is an independent institution that can address these issues. It doesn't seem to be a problem getting the information we're asking for from the government. But I see the importance, and I look forward to it being made clear in the action plan what the objectives are concrete for Norwegian policy nationally and not least internationally. As Mathisen's representative pointed out, there are many good examples out there, not just from government, big business and organisations, but there are quite a number of municipalities and quite a number of industries that have really taken sustainability goals seriously, and that, in a way that impresses me, implement these goals in their daily work, not least when they draw up action plans for their own businesses. Finally, I would like to say, as I have said, that sustainability targets are very ambitious targets. It is perhaps the most ambitious political objectives that the state of Norway has committed itself to. I look forward to the action plan coming, assuming that the recommendations made by the Riksrevision are included in the plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3154	I would like to start by thanking the case spokesman for a good presentation and a good post, and for having done a good job in the committee. The UN's resource targets have overarching formulations that show that the world has a joint deal on, among other things. ensuring water and food security for the population, reducing inequalities, creating resilient communities and fighting climate change. If we are to achieve this, we must have a political debate. We need to have governance and priority between objectives and instruments. Then it's not certain that everyone here in the room is a few, but we have to dare to take the debate, in order for the painting to become more than words on paper. The report from the National Audit Office shows that Norway has gone high on the track and presented the resource targets internationally, but the government has not done its homework and has taken the targets into use here in the country. This does not give us international trust. It also considers that we are not good enough to make priorities when different concerns in different areas of society need to be balanced against each other. I would like to point out that the Riksrevision concludes that the government reporting has not provided sufficient information to the Stortinget about the status or progress of the national follow-up to the yield target. The government has provided an overview of national challenges to the UN, but not to the UK. It shouldn't be like that. The debate and priorities shall take place in this room when global objectives are to become national policies. I hope that the government will now read the opinion from the committee and come back to Stortinget with a good and concrete action plan this spring. The plan score should not be a nice document to show. The plan will have to provide us with the facts and good analysis that will show the conflicts between the different objectives. This is the only way we can take the debate and make the choices that will make for the sustainability targets to be part of the everyday life of everyone here in the country. We're going to go through 17 different goals and 169 intermediate targets. Then it's important that we have a setup that shows how we can proceed, and that we get good discussions. I would like to say that the following are important: there is a lot of talk about getting new indicators and new measuring instruments. I think the most important thing is that we actually dare to look at all the different statistics and goals we have, and how we can use them, without constantly developing new ones. It can actually be a problem if we create so many targets and different indicators that one cannot follow them up – if one cannot coordinate them. We have an incredible amount of statistics in Norway today, about variety, and it should be possible to put this together into a common project, so that we can get away with too many. What is important is that we are able to achieve the objectives and get good debates on how we can achieve these objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3169	The 2030 agenda, consisting of the 17 sustainability goals, is the world’s common work plan to eradicate poverty, combat inequality and stop climate change by 2030. The agenda was adopted in 2015 with effect from 1 January 2016. Both targets and targets are universal; they apply in all countries. The government of each country is responsible for implementing the objectives at both national, regional and global levels. This means that the objectives should be adapted to national circumstances and integrated into both national policies, plans and strategies. It's a national, holistic approach. For this reason, the Stortinget has provided that the government will draw up a plan for the implementation of the targets by Norway here as well. Others have already listed the findings, criticisms and recommendations of the National Audit Office in a good way. What I want to say is that this study clearly shows a lack of prioritisation of the work on sustainability objectives up to 2020. So the plan came into force on 1 January 2016, and the Stortinget completed the big business report on the matter in the summer of 2017, but it was not until last year that one department was given the management responsibility for the work. Before that, there was an inconspicuous and little complete follow-up. It was not until last year that a basis was laid for more systematic overall and cross-sectoral follow-up and reporting, as foreseen. It was not until last year that the government commissioned the Statistical Central Agency to develop indicators that could follow the development of the national targets. It's only this year that we get a plan for national implementation, as the Stortinge provided. The national follow-up has not been properly coordinated, finds the Riksrevision – piece by piece and divided follow-up until last year, when the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation was given responsibility for the coordination, and we still do not have a plan. Norway is the only Nordic country that has still not adopted an action plan for follow-up – our Scandinavian neighbouring country has already adopted all its action plans in 2017 – and it is despite the fact that the Prime Minister himself is part of the UN's pusher group on sustainability targets. The Prime Minister is also not present in Stortinget today. The Prime Minister certainly has other important tasks, but still – it is obvious that this important work has not been high enough. Therefore, at least the SV and the Workers' Party in the Committee believe that the government could take advantage of the way in which other countries have chosen to manage the work. Germany is a very good example of the work being done on objectives internationally, and there the Chancellor himself is leading it. It would probably have been good for the priority and management of the work here in Norway as well. In addition, SV points to some important overall criteria in the setting when the plan first arrives. It is based on the assumptions that come from Stortinget and from the 2030 agenda, and therefore it is relevant to say something about it in this case. For example, the plan must give priority to Norway’s challenges in the form of concrete measures and indicators, which we have already talked about. The action plan should distinguish between existing measures and new or reinforced measures, so that we actually see what kind of increased effort it leads to. Convergence should be promoted by looking at sustainability objectives as well as national and international achievement of objectives in the context, as the National Audit Office also makes important points in the study. The action plan must specify what is to be achieved by the year, with milestones, so that progress can also be measured. I will end by saying that I hope this report from the Riksrevision will result in a higher priority and better coordination of the work on the 2030 agenda in Norway, for this work is extremely important. This is the world's common systematic effort to stop the climate crisis, prevent inequality and combat poverty, and then we have no time to lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3184	The UN's impact targets, together with the Norway climate target, are the most ambitious targets we'll achieve by 2030. The energy targets are the world's common work plan to eradicate poverty, combat and prevent inequality and halt climate change and the loss of biodiversity – a universal, common plan to secure future generations of life, life free from poverty and discrimination, and not least the ability to go to school. They highlight the way the world will move through a green shift to halt climate change and environmental degradation. The last thing is not least to stress for us politicians. Although climate change and extreme weather are the most visible and tangible and get the most remarkable, unfortunately the pace of loss of nature and biological deficiency is a at least equal problem. At the same time, social differences must also be reduced. The change we jointly shall pass through shall be green, but it must also be fair. It is a shared responsibility that we take care of each other and secure what the UN Secretary-General has called a fair globalisation. That's how we create freedom and opportunities for everyone. The BEMPs are governing Norway and must be integrated into all policies implemented, both internationally, nationally, regionally and locally. Therefore, it is necessary that the organisation in order to achieve the national efficiency targets is such that it ensures a holistic fulfillment. It requires governance at a superior level with clear responsibilities and adequate coordination. The government took this seriously when they appointed the municipal minister to be also Minister of Defence, at the beginning of 2020. I believe, of course, that we must take the conclusions of the Riksrevision in the utmost seriousness. At the same time, it is important to point out that the government has followed up several of the points proposed by the Riksrevision in its recommendations, even before the report was submitted. The nominal appointment of the Minister of Bears' Force is one of these, and in 2021 there will be a holistic plan for the implementation of the Bears' Force Goals. We are not yet in target, but at least we are on the right track when it comes to reporting and coordination in achieving the sustainability targets. Although there is still some work to be done in practical terms, it is a pleasure that Norway is one of the countries that is best placed to achieve the yield target by 2030. It should only be lacking that we are not in a good position to do so — one of the most resource-rich countries in the world. The UN's energy targets are only achieved through extensive national and international cooperation where each country has to assume its responsibilities, but where each country also has to take responsibility for good cooperation across countries, in order to achieve the objectives we have seen. Norway, as a rich, well-organised country, has an extra great responsibility to help us close this work together. The problems we are going to solve are global, and a strong international community with extensive international cooperation is what we need to solve the major challenges we face. The 2030 Agenda takes into account the fact that the three different dimensions of sustainable development — economic, social and environmental — are linked to each other and are committed to an integrated and balanced approach to achieving sustainable development. It's an ambitious work, but we have to do it. Then it is decisive that we jointly create a green future with freedom and opportunities for all, both in Norway and globally. For the left, this is of course. We've always thought that we need to work together across borders if we're going to solve the big challenges, and I think I'm going to give the government and our people there sympathize that Norway is doing its job to close us up. Luckily, that's how the representative Horne said so well: Planar is important, but it's not plans, but action that means something to the climate and nature and to secure all equal opportunities. Fortunately, Norway and the blue-green government are doing very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3203	In 2015, all UN member states agreed on 17 targets and 169 targets for sustainable development in the world. Sustainability targets apply to all countries and all parts of society, and they will be achieved by 2030. Norway was an active driver for the adoption of sustainability targets, and we therefore have a great responsibility to help us achieve our goals, both at home and in the rest of the world. The government has decided that the 2030 agenda, with the 17 sustainability goals, is the main political track to address the greatest challenges of our time. We've over time stepped up efforts to achieve our goals. The sustainability objectives are central to both multilateral and bilateral cooperation in development and foreign policy, and Prime Minister Erna Solberg, as has been mentioned by several, is one of the two leaders of the United Nations Group on Sustainable Development Goals, together with the President of Ghana. We also work on the broad front at national level to help achieve the sustainability goals. Through the inclusion period, we give several holes in the CV or disabilities the opportunity to participate in the working life. Through the integration promise, we contribute to the participation of more immigrants in their community. The education promise, which is one of the main steps of the government to take Norway out of the corona crisis, the teacher's vow and the profession, is to give more people the skills they need to become part of the working life of the future, and are prerequisites for all the sustainability goals. The recently submitted climate communication shall contribute to environmental sustainability through concrete measures for emissions reduction. Work on the sustainability targets here at home produces results. In an international comparison, Norway is the sixth best at sustainability targets, and we are cutting almost all global indicators. The UN calls on all countries to translate the 2030 agenda and sustainability objectives into national policies and to ensure implementation at national, regional and local level. The National Audit Office's report takes into account how the government has followed this up in the period 2016–2019, and gives the government criticism on several points. Of course, the government takes this criticism seriously, but at the same time I would like to stress that several of the criticisms had already been followed up when the Riksrevisions report was presented, because the government itself saw that there was a need to intensify efforts towards sustainability goals in the future. In January 2020, responsibility for pursuing sustainability objectives was transferred to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. During 2021, we will present a national action plan on sustainability objectives. As part of the action plan, we will provide national indicators on target achievement. In addition, the government mentions the sustainability objectives of all communications and strategies where relevant, and we demand that municipalities and county municipalities base their sustainability objectives on their planning. This year all State activities shall also report on how they are working on sustainability targets. The Government will also continue to report on the sustainability targets of the National Budget and on the budget proposals of the departments. But we're going to work to strengthen this reporting, so it's easier to see the whole thing. The sustainability objectives oblige everyone: national and local authorities, private business, civil society, academia and each of us. We all have a responsibility to contribute, and the government is responsible for facilitating this. We do that both through our international cooperation and through national policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3220	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3225	The National Audit Office's report is not primarily critical of the period during which the Minister of State has been responsible for coordination. It's the period before that which is primarily criticised. I will not go into the follow-up of the individual objective, nor has the Riksrevisions report done so. It's going to follow up our trade unions in a thorough manner, but I still thank you for the presentation. I'd like to start with something Solveig Horne said. She said something about her own experience from the follow-up of the government – it was very interesting. So the representative told Horne that she was proud that we have a prime minister who has been given that commission – that was about the propelling committee. I agree. I am proud of Norwegian politicians who get international tasks, no matter what political party they come from. But that's exactly why I'm so embarrassed when they fail, and in particular I think it's striking – and I have to deal with that with the Council of State – that the Prime Minister, who was responsible for the whole period until the New Year's 2020, is not in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3233	Let me first say that it doesn't mean that we haven't had an overall plan to pursue the sustainability goals, it doesn't mean that we haven't worked well with the sustainability goals in the different departments, just as the representative Horne was also involved. The most important thing is that we deliver results in this work. Then we have seen that precisely because sustainability targets go beyond just what goes on the responsibility of government – covering the whole of society and all sectors and all parts of society – an action plan is needed to have a common tool and common indicators on what we are going to achieve together by 2030. This is why such an action plan is now coming. Then it is quite common that it is the Council of State that has the constitutional responsibility, which also meets in the Grand Duchy when the Riksrevision reports on their responsibility are debated.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3240	With regard to the Riksrevision report, which is the starting point for this debate, most of the years covered by the report have been divided into 12 departments. It is then obvious that it is the Prime Minister who has the overall responsibility, especially when she has profiled herself as being particularly interested in sustainability goals. That's why it's arrogant to Stortinget to say no to an invitation to come here. Nor is it just the action plan that is missing. For example, in the period we're talking about, before the Council of State took over, it was missing. I would also like to refer to what the Prime Minister said in the Nordic Council: ‘By following up at home, we ensure credibility in our efforts internationally.’ Is it not that the lack of follow-up not only with regard to action plan, but also with regard to statistics and reporting to Stortinget, is our reputation weakening internationally because we are doing such a bad job?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3252	Our international reputation in sustainability is very high. I myself have been the Minister of Development and have traveled so to speak around the world, talked to a great many both Heads of State and Government about this work, and our reputation in this area is high. I can assure the representative. With regard to the criticism that the Prime Minister does not meet in Stortingen to discuss this national audit report, it is quite common for the Council of State to have the constitutional responsibility, which meets, even when that responsibility has changed. In the past, the Ministry of Finance was the coordinating department. Now it is the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation that is, and we have been given an extended responsibility compared to what the Ministry of Finance had because it was necessary. If anyone were to meet to answer for these years, former Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, was going to be here. The representative, however, knows as a former prime minister, the formalia, very well and knows that it is quite normal that I am the one who is dealing with this particular matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3259	Then I can say that it is not entirely normal when we talk about a matter where there should possibly have been a call for 12 government councils that have been involved in the Riksrevision reporting period. Then there is one answer to that question, and that is that the overall responsibility lies with the Prime Minister. It would have been constitutionally correct, and at least to express respect for the Storting, that it was just the Prime Minister with the overall responsibility that had met in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3264	When the red-greens crashed the country, it often happened that those who were then in opposition thought that the then Prime Minister Stoltenberg should basically meet in the Stortinget and answer for the vast majority of things. It was then answered about how I answered the representative's questions, namely that it is the Council of State that has the constitutional responsibility, that meets in the Stortinge to answer these kinds of questions. Then there should be no doubt about the Prime Minister's personal commitment to the sustainability goals, both here at home and out. A number of major efforts have been made, I mentioned some of them in my post instead, so that Norway will contribute to higher achievement here at home. Both the climate communication, which has just been presented, the circular economy strategy, which comes eventually, the inclusion momentum and many other things contribute to higher achievement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3271	I want to follow up with the committee leader on statistics and registration. The Committee’s plurality, the members of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV, refer to the National Audit Office’s observation that there was an SSB that concluded that there was a hole in the indicator set and that it was those who had to warn that an existing indicator could be used for the national targets. The majority very much emphasise that targeted and effective reporting depends on one trying to use so much of the existing numbers that a non-inferiority to build up new and expensive systems to make this work. I would like to hear the views of the Council of State on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3276	I fully agree with the representative that we should use available statistics to create indicators and measurement points. The SSB has also been given an extended mission in terms of indicator work, and we aim to present in the NAP to be presented during the spring, measurement points relevant to Norwegian conditions. It is a challenge for us that the global indicators do not necessarily fit into the Norwegian context, and that this work should be tangible, manageable and practical for all the different actors to contribute, it is important that the indicators have national relevance for us to succeed, and that we know what we have to deal with. In this, Norway is lucky, because we have very good data series in different areas that can be included as part of these indicator sets.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3281	Yes, so it surprises me a little bit that one didn't immediately get to grips with this work and was so clearly international that this was an incredibly important work. I'm glad that the Council of State says that one has to adapt it to local circumstances, because it's quite clear that to achieve these goals, it doesn't make sense to have exactly the same objectives in Brazil and Norway, to say it carefully. Without going too far into it, I'm going to say that we have an agreement with Latin America about some imports of meat and other things, which well goes against these yielding energy targets for resilient production. How will you look at and compare these things, which clearly go wrong with the challenges ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3286	The representative is at the heart of sustainability goals, and there are target conflicts. There are a lot of target conflicts, and the goals are connected. This means that it is important that we have – let us say – a thoughtful approach to how these objectives are to be achieved in Norway. We know, for example. that many developing countries, in order to meet many of their sustainability goals, will depend on their exportability of more food. For Norway, importing more food from other countries in order to help them achieve their sustainability goals will contrast with our own goals of having viable agriculture throughout the country. Fortunately, over the last few years, under this government, there has been a fantastic development in the production figures for Norwegian agriculture. It's a development I'd like to think that the representative agreed has been positive. But these conflicts are not easy, and we also need to deal with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3291	So it is only this year that this national action plan comes in order to follow up the government’s objectives, and after the Stortinget already said that this is a very fundamental condition in 2017 when it comes to that matter. It was not until last year that a department was given the management responsibility for the work. Not until last year was a basis for more systematic and comprehensive follow-up and reporting. Only last year the government commissioned the SSB to develop indicators that could be used to follow up developments in order to achieve the targets. What I'm asking you is what this insidiousness is. Has the priority of this work been high enough? And not least, does the Council of State think that a reason this has only happened last year, is that the Riksrevision began to ask questions about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3298	Firstly, I think it is positive that the Riksrevision asks questions about both this and other matters. It is good that you have someone who comes with you and is interested in just this. One of the things that the Riksrevision points out that we need to get better is the reporting to the Stortinget, but that's something The Storting itself has never reacted to. It's positive that the National Auditorate is breathing us in the neck and helping us to improve on some points. I would like to emphasise once again that we have not had an overall action plan to achieve the sustainability targets until it comes later this year, not that we have not been working to achieve the sustainability targets in concrete areas. It is important that sustainability targets are translated into concrete action in different areas. There can't be anything you do on the page; it has to be something that's integrated into our day-to-day business. That's one of the reasons why we, for example, has said that municipalities and county councils must base their activities on sustainability objectives. It's not supposed to be something you report on the page, it's something you integrate into the way you work. We've been trying to do that since the beginning.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3306	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3311	The UN's sustainability objective is a very important step forward, because they have thus set a common agenda for the whole world and are widely accepted politically. Both the Council of State and I are going with the same stick because we are joining the same sustainability goals, and this is also the consensus across the countries. This is a common agenda. As many have said very well in this debate, the main point of sustainability goals is to see important things in context. It's really the mental transformation from saying that we need more energy, to say yes, we need more energy, but it has to be decarbonised. We need more food, of course, to feed a growing population, but in a way that doesn't undermine nature's ability to produce more food. We need better health, but in a way that lifts our common health on the globe, between humans and the planet, etc. It's just the integration that's the point, because a lot of these measures could have come on themselves, but it's a methodology to see how they relate, which is the point. This is, as it is quite right to say, also by the Council of State, both for all departments, for all parts of the state apparatus, at all levels and, of course, also for private actors. One of the most beautiful things about being at almost any presentation from a Norwegian company is that the first plank shows which sustainability targets to meet. The fact that you have a common agenda is very good. I am absolutely sure we agree on this in this Chamber. Then it's also important that you deliver on the very point of integration and the point of integration. I have also worked a lot in the world, both in the United Nations and with the United Nations and as a Norwegian and international employee, and I can say that Norway has a high reputation, absolutely, across governments. But this by showing the value of whole and integration must start at home. So you can't just preach it to others out there. I understand that the Prime Minister has been so successful in preaching it to others that all the other Nordic countries have listened to her, but then she has apparently forgotten to make sure that you were able to deliver fully on it yourself. I believe that this is a reasonable criticism from the Riksaudition, and I agree with what Mr Andersen has said in this case, too, that it is a responsibility that is incumbent upon the Prime Minister. We who sometimes run Norwegian departments know that we have a very loyal, proper and professional office. It is very nice to say about the Norwegian control model, but the whole and the context is not the first thing I would like to think about. We have a relatively fragmented system, and it can often be frustrating for those who sit in a government trying to implement a comprehensive policy, because the system is not always built for it. There's only one answer to that, and it's that this whole context and management comes from the top. Therefore, I would like to stress that when the Workers' Party calls for the Prime Minister in the Chamber, it is not to be demeaned by the Council of State of Astrup, which is cordially welcome. We would like to have the Council of State as well, but we think that in this very important matter, we should hear what the Prime Minister has done and may not have done in order to get the overall direction of this integration process. The sustainability targets were adopted in 2015; the obligation to follow them entered into force on 1 January 2016. This was mentioned up in the Stortinget in 2017. The reason why you had to do it in 15 years was because it's a demanding thing, and they don't get any less demanding the longer you wait. It's not like the probability of meeting in 2030 goes up when you postpone – it goes down, or you have to take even tougher grip. That is why it is a very important message here that it is now about bringing this together, that this overall approach is also being taken in Norway, and that we stress that we expect it to be a responsibility not least of the top government, the Prime Minister, to be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3334	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3351	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be an opportunity for up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3358	First, I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation and Rapid Treatment. There is an overall committee which joins the proposals in the case, and the same applies to the comments in order to underline some of the assumptions the Committee would make. The background to the proposals we are discussing today is mainly the work of the Committee on Election Law, which delivered its position in May 2020 in NOW 2020:6 Free and secret elections. The committee made a number of proposals for changes and a number of these. The basic legislative proposals of the sample have been promoted for treatment during the next major period, and some changes in the electoral law will naturally be needed as a result of that treatment. However, the Ministry has taken a price-effective approach to some technical changes and improvements that can be adopted already this year, so that they will apply from the election this year. The three proposals, which thus have cross-political agreement, relate to the ombudsman obligation, personal assistance in the ballot box and the after-treatment of election cards. The change concerning the ombudsman’s obligation and the urgent need to be put in place since the roll-out and roll-out election lists are not to be submitted and approved for a long time results in the election law being in conformity with the Constitution under the change made by the Stortinget. It concerns the right not to appear on a specific list, which previously had to be justified by certain criteria, but which is now replaced by the following: ‘(c) the person who has made a written declaration that he does not wish to appear on the electoral list concerned.’;» It concerns the specific list of options and is not a general exemption. The other grounds for exemption exist as before. Another very important change proposed is the rights of persons with mental or physical disabilities in Section 9-5, fifth paragraph. The change is that a voter, an electoral officer, is no longer required to be included in the closed box if they bring with them another person whom they themselves have pointed out to help themselves. Of course, they can still pick out one voter to help themselves, but they can choose another. In the consultation round, it is noted that some have met challenges due to a lack of knowledge of the rules surrounding this with the voters. The Committee therefore stresses that it is essential that the rights of this group be made well known to all parties and that the staff in the voting rooms are well prepared and have received the necessary training. The last amendment concerns removing the requirement to transmit all choice cards to the County Election Board according to staging and filling options. The physical choice cards no longer have the function of checking the decision-making process after electronic election cards have been introduced and used by the majority of voters. At the same time, the Committee would stress that this amendment should not alter the important principle that those who have made reservations in the contact and reservation register and vote who have not stored or updated contact information in the register in the last 18 months should continue to receive election cards by post. Finally, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that the Department of Proposition also presents some practical adjustments to ensure the proper implementation of the elections also in a situation of continuing pandemic. Furthermore, it is important to note that the action plan to enhance resilience to impact campaigns and hybrid threats to election implementation is being followed up and that the efforts to ensure and strengthen the security of election implementation are being continued towards the collapse and merger elections in 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3384	I shall be very brief, because, as the rapporteur has explained well, it is a unanimous vote by the Committee. I just want to allow myself to underline a point that was also mentioned, and it's about the transition to digital election cards, because there's been an involvement in the committee. This is something we're doing to make choices easier. But we live in a world where for some people it might be more difficult, so I just want to stress what the case-rapporteur said, there is a broad consensus in the committee about and we are very concerned that those who still prefer paper solutions will have the opportunity, so simplification does not lead to the world becoming more difficult for those who are not fully digitised today. It's just that, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3391	I don't need to make a long post about this. The rapporteur has given a good account of the position and the matter, and I am pleased that the Committee agrees with the proposals that have been put forward. To the representative, Andersen, I would like to assure you that the voters who want to receive the election card physically in the post office still have the full opportunity to reserve themselves against digital communication from the public sector and thus receive it as a letter mail.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-11.ana.ud167e3398	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox Thus, today's map has been processed. – Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? The meeting has been cancelled.
