ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e28	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e44	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Jan Tore Sanner, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen and Abid Q. Raja will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Eigil Knutsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e53	My question goes to Finance Minister Jan Tore Sanner. The Coronapandemic lasts and lasts, and with it comes the news releases of ever-increasing downskilling processes. One could maybe view this as common in downtime, it would have been just a normal downtime. But the coronary apathy differs from all other crises in many ways. One of the ways is that we in Norway, on the part of the state, are doing business in a big way. The State, and thus the Community funds, reduces the risk to Norwegian enterprises through deferred taxes and charges, loan guarantee schemes, compensation schemes for large-scale enterprises and cash to cover fixed costs. The Labour Party supports these mechanisms to save jobs, so that we can get through this crisis with healthy and viable businesses when the markets come back up, and precisely because that is the jobs we need to save, and not the investors. For this reason, the Workers' Party has proposed that beneficiary enterprises should conclude contracts with trustees in order to maintain jobs, avoid redundancies and maintain employees. However, since the government parties and the Advance Party have not supported these proposals, there is no requirement for such consideration by the employees. We have seen examples like the hotel chain Scandic, which has announced the dismissal of 1,000 employees. At the same time, the figures show that the same company has received as much as 335 million. kr from the compensation schemes. My question is therefore whether the Minister of Finance believes that companies receiving these large amounts of compensation should be free to cut off as much as they like, or whether there should have been any restrictions whatsoever on the possibility of going to a cancellation, given that we have a rough leave and, as mentioned, a rough compensation scheme for the companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e64	We're still in the middle of the crisis. The economic crisis we now experience is a consequence of the pandemic, and it's only when we can keep the infection down, and when we win the fight against the virus, that we can reopen and get activity in our society. Then I am pleased with the cooperation we have had so far – government and big business and the cross-party – and also the cooperation we have had with the social partners. It has been important to get schemes in place quickly. My main impression is that there is good cooperation in the workplaces between employees and employers, between organisations, and that we stand together in the fight to save businesses in order to secure jobs. There are undoubtedly also some dilemmas about the arrangements we have. There are dilemmas linked to a compensation scheme as such. In normal times we would never give cash support to companies, but we do because the state shuts down. There are also dilemmas as to how much support each enterprise should receive. The government initially proposed a ceiling of 50 million. kr, but the bulk of the population wanted a higher ceiling, which means that many of the large chains and large groups have also received more money. The government is clear that we expect leaders and businesses to show moderation both in terms of management salaries, in terms of bonuses, and of course also in terms of dividends, and it is important that it is a good cooperation with employee organisations if we have to reduce the number of employees. But it could be like that in single companies, and now I'm not saying about named companies, that de-manning is actually a tool to save jobs if the alternative would be that companies went bankrupt. I think it is important that companies think through that they cooperate with the employee organisations, but they also sometimes have to do some such operations to actually save businesses and jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e75	The finance minister gave me a transition to my next question, for he mentioned dividends. We have been served in the news in the last few days several examples of this at least I would call insolvent use of taxpayers' money, namely heavy dividends to owners of companies that have received either cash support, favourable tax rules or other support from the community's funds. Again, it has been impossible to reach an agreement in Stortinget on any claim that could prevent this. The right-hand side has voted down the proposals that could ensure that the money went to its intended purpose and saved the jobs. Even moderate proposals to temporarily amend the Share Act so that the dividend basis could be curtailed by the amount of the aid have been voted down by the Right and Right sides of this Chamber. Therefore, my question about the Council of State has some concerns that crisis aid is now being used to enrich individual shareholders, and that the State is taking the downside risk, and whether he is comfortable with the fact that there are no restrictions on dividend payments in companies supported by the community through the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e82	I clearly see the question that is being raised, and I fully agree that it is unacceptable if cash support to companies goes to dividends. But then the question is, are we going to go from there to regulate dividends? I think we shouldn't do that, because there might be situations where it's necessary and right for companies to make dividends. Some owners have to pay dividends to pay taxes and taxes. Other enterprises may run out of time and therefore receive cash support. But then they go better, and then they take dividends to invest in new jobs. If you were to go that way first, it would most likely be so many exceptions in the system that it would also undermine the purpose. I therefore have a very clear request for owners, and that is to show moderation, and to show solidarity in the situation we are now in – that you stand together in the fight to save and secure jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e87	There will be follow-up questions – first Eigil Knutsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e92	A request has been made by Stortinget, and we have seen the result – that it has not worked properly. What we're talking about now is what our country is going to look like after the crisis, and there's no doubt that this crisis is strengthening the economic differences. When, in addition, policies allow this crisis aid to go to private owners' pockets, while the losses must be borne by the community and the workers who lose their jobs, policies also reinforce these differences. The Coronapandemic focuses a magnifying glass on the vulnerabilities and differences in our society. The differences between large and small are evident in the economic handling of the crisis we are facing. Many small enterprises within e.g. catering and outdoor life have been struggling with the lack of drag help, while we see that the five largest recipients of the cash support get half of the money. Now that the crisis is longer than we thought, and the arrangements are being extended, is the Minister of Finance willing to look at some of the measures that can make the schemes a little less attractive to the largest enterprises and a little more accurate for the small and medium-sized enterprises, which do not have the same access to such funding?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e103	The answer to that is yes. And if the Workers' Party supported the government's proposal, the roof of these arrangements would be lower. The government's proposal was 50 million. NOK, while the bulk of the population checked it up to 80 million. kr, and that also means that the largest have got more. So you could say that many of the largest have also had significant losses. They have a lot of jobs. I agree that there are some dilemmas here, and of course we have to be open to discuss them. I also agree with the approach that yes, the crisis is striking differently, the crisis is falling crooked. We see that 90 pst. business has been able to maintain the activity, while 10 pst. has fallen 25 pst. There is no doubt that many of those with the least education, the lowest pay and the weakest employment relationship are hit hardest, and young people are among them. This is why, since May last year, the government has proposed measures: youth unemployment, the possibility of education under day care and now in the last crisis package measures for students, but also for the long-term unemployed. We totally agree – we have to think about the way out of the crisis, what society we're going to have when we take back our everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e114	Hans Andreas Limi – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e119	It's cold, and the cold period is predicted to last quite a while. Power prices are rising, and even though we have spent a year with quite low prices, we now experience a price level of electricity that we've only had ten times in history. So we have to expect extreme results over shorter or longer periods in the future. In a situation with more than 200,000 lay-offs and unemployed, with payments at a significantly lower level than normal, increased electricity prices can be a challenge for many. What measures does the government consider as current to help remedy the situation if electricity prices continue to rise, as there is reason to assume?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e127	It's true that we have one month now as it's both cold and power prices are high. Then we also have a year behind us, 2020, when we had very low power prices. Then the electricity prices were the lowest in 10 years, and a normal household saved up to NOK 5000. Now we're in the lucky situation that the magazines are quite well filled. This means that more electricity can be produced over the year. If you are going to do something that is targeted, I believe that in that case the housing support is a suitable tool. But at the same time, I think it might make sense to wait something beyond the winter to also see how the power prices are developing. But that's right -- now the power prices are high. Last year they were low. Targeted schemes may be involved. We're also open to discuss that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e136	Hans Andreas Limi – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e141	I am pleased with the last thing that the Minister of Finance said that targeted measures may be relevant, because it is right that electricity prices are fluctuating. We had low prices last year. It's not unusual for them to rise when the cold gets in. What's special now is that we get a long period of time – that's at least reason to expect it – and second, that a lot of people are now out of work or out of work. That means that the payments are lower than they normally are. It also means that compliance with their current obligations becomes more difficult. If you get a long-term increase in the electricity price, it will mean a lot to the households that are now affected. The question is more specific: one thing is the public system that is there, but what is done concretely to those who go on a day-to-day basis and do not have other public schemes that they can use? What measures can be specifically targeted at the group that may now experience problems because of what is happening in the market?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e148	I am pleased with the approach to the issue, because not everyone has got it worse during this crisis. There are actually a lot of safe jobs, it's low interest rates, and we have a lot of savings. But there are people who are now struggling, who have lost their job or are on their way. There has also been a broad consensus in Stortinget and with the government that we should have a higher level of compensation for those who have the lowest wages. The Government Parties and the Advance Party also agreed on the budget for 2021, where we further improved the housing aid scheme, which is a targeted scheme for those who have the least. So to the extent that it becomes relevant to look at some arrangements, I believe that in that case it is the housing support scheme that is most targeted for those who are struggling with high housing costs and low income or low social security. But I think it's good to see something beyond the winter on how prices actually develop, and that we don't take it from day to day.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e155	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e160	When the Progress Party and the Right took over the government offices in 2013, Tord Lien became Minister of Oil and Energy, and on behalf of the Right-Fremskritsparte-Registration he stated that he was tired of low power prices. He wanted a higher power price. He strongly argued at Statkraft's conference that it was important for Norway that we get a higher electricity price. He went so far, along with the Right, that one among other things. amended law to allow multiple export cables for electricity. In this area, I can see that the Advance Party and the Right have achieved their goal: they have received a higher electricity price. In addition to market policy, the fees increased as Siv Jensen was the finance minister, from 11 kroner and 61 øre per kWh to 16 kroner and 13 øre per kWh today. It has been approx. 50 pst. increase in electricity charges under the Right and Advance Party. Does the Right continue to believe that the goal you had at the beginning of your reign, that you wanted a higher electricity price in Norway, is wise, and does it make sense to have such a high charge on electricity?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e169	I'm not going to give a general opinion on the memory of the representative, Battle Violence Vedum, but I can say that it is quite selective with respect to reporting. In the context of the examination of the last budget of the Stoltenberg II Government, which the Battle of Vedum contributed to the adoption, an increase in the electricity charge was actually proposed. The centre party has also voted in favour of an increased electricity charge on some occasions during the previous growing period, and they have proposed a reduction on other occasions. During this large-scale period, our government has not proposed an increase in the electricity charge at all. We've actually put it down. Last year we had an extremely low power price, and I think we're going to be happy that we have cables abroad that make that when we have a lot of overproduction, we can export power. When we need a lot of power ourselves, we can import. This is the market and the market is functioning. We produce a lot of energy in Norway, but we also have periods of high consumption, and then we have to be able to have good exchanges with the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e176	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e181	My question goes to the Minister of Finance, but first I need to refer to one of the former representatives of the Vedum government from the same party, who wanted Norway to be Europe's green battery and to export as much electricity as possible. We know what would happen to Norwegian electricity prices if that had happened. Norway is in a unique position to deal with the crisis because of our oil wealth. Only in the last year has the oil fund increased by over 1000 billion. kr. The Progress Party believes that we should not be afraid to spend money now to help people and businesses through the crisis. That is why we have significantly strengthened the crisis packages presented by the government. More than 200,000 people have now been registered as completely unemployed, according to Nav's latest figures. At the same time as Norway is facing this crisis, the government is presenting a climate communication that can in practice outsource thousands of Norwegian industrial workplaces in the coming years. The right will introduce strange, sky-high taxes and taxes that can break Norwegian workplaces. In addition, it may result in higher emissions due to a shift of production to land with less costs and requirements. The government proposes this without responding to the consequences. It comes to the top of several batches in this room wanting to shut down the oil and gas industry, which is the main industry for the country. The same parties are happily using this money that hardworking world-class oil workers and knowledge environments have provided the country with. The oil industry will also be affected by extraordinary taxes and taxes. A CO 2 tax of NOK 2 000, which has now been proposed by the Right, has been proposed by the Greens. That's when the Right said it was irresponsible. To underline it, the Progress Party will never support this. My question is: is it the Left and Christian People's Party that governs climate policy, or does Right propose this policy, which will move values and jobs out of the country, entirely voluntary?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e197	I can confirm that the climate report is on the right side of the mountain and excited at the back. This is an absolutely necessary instrument and a necessary plan for us to address the major climate challenges we are facing. The climate crisis is the greatest challenge of our time. It requires both national action and international cooperation. I believe that we will manage to deal with the climate crisis. After a new president in the United States, there is hope that there will also be international force behind the necessary measures. But let me remind you that the plan we have put forward is a ten-year plan: a gradual, predictable increase in the CO 2 tax. It is important for the polluter to pay, and not least for companies to have time to adapt and new technologies to help create new jobs. We're going to cut the emissions, but we're not going to cut the evolution. I believe that the government's climate policy will contribute to green growth and new jobs, while also doing our part in Norway and in cooperation with the EU in order to reduce climate change emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e207	Yes – and move jobs out of the country! The car is our main means of transport. Over 80 pst. of passenger transport in Norway by car. Most of us are totally dependent on the car in their everyday lives, whether it's to get to work, at the store or to drive the children on training. I hear the Right is in on this with enthusiasm. It's almost impossible to believe that the Right in the Climate Communication proposes diesel and petrol prices of over 20 kroner. It will hit hard for those who have the least, for those who can't afford to buy Tesla or an electric car, who can't use an electric car because it doesn't fit their needs, who don't have time to charge, or perhaps have nowhere to charge. There is a cross-cutting social policy that affects those who have the least. The progress party will never support this. We want to make everyday life easier for people and put the fees down, because this affects those who have the least. How can right-wing apply to ordinary people and businesses petrol and diesel prices of at least 20 litres, which will make it even more difficult to meet the ends of those who have poor advice?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e219	Firstly, the representative has to read the full report on the climate, because it does not say that petrol and diesel prices are going up to the levels that Listhaug says. We have said that we have not taken a decision on whether to compensate for reduced user charges, as we have done in these eight years, as the three current government parties and the Progress Party have collide. We've also looked at what this will mean for the flight prices. In 10 years there will be an increase of SEK 70 for an air ticket provided that there is no efficiency improvement and new technology contributing to lower emissions. This is a predictable plan that allows companies to adapt. So there's one thing we're dealing with, and that's that when we increase some charges, we put down others. In these eight years, we have reduced taxes by about 30 billion. kr. Yes, we do it more expensive to pollute, but we make it cheaper to behave environmentally friendly, and we lower the tax for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e226	There will be follow-up questions – first Sylvi Listhaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e231	So it could be a gas and diesel price of over $20. The plane is an important precursor for many in Norway. Some fly to work in other parts of the country, others fly to be able to visit family when they have time, or when they are not able to drive. For many families, the south of the summer is the highlight of the year – when the world is free of Korona. The aircraft is essential for the operation of Norway, especially in the districts where this is the only collective service available. The airlines are in crisis. SAS wears, Onkøe wears, and Norwegian is on the brink of bankruptcy. There's tough international competition and a fight for the companies to survive. The answer from the Right in the Climate Communication is to turn the charges heavily up, so it is much more expensive to fly. It hits most of those who have the least, and makes it harder and perhaps impossible for ordinary people and families to use the plane as a means of emergence. You obviously don't like ordinary people and families being able to take a flight to their grandparents, it's supposed to be reserved for rich people. You have to make everyday life more difficult and more expensive for people most. My question is, how can the Right stand in the head to make it more expensive to fly in Norway, which affects common people, while the nationalists can most continue to fly Norway and the world around?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e242	I said in my previous answer that we had looked at how this would look like. a flight with Onyøe. With the escalation in the climate plan, with the assumptions that Onøe has given, there will be an increase of 70 kroner in 10 years. That means an increase of 7 dollars per year. It is based on the fact that there will be no energy efficiency improvement or other measures in the aviation industry that will help bring down emissions. What is important about the plan we have now put forward is that we have a 10-year perspective. We're doing this because we think it's important. It is important that we reduce climate change emissions, that we achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. It's important to life on the globe. It's important to people in Norway. This is a careful increase in the fee on aeroplanes: 70 kroner per ticket in 10 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e249	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e254	Now it is the case that this year the Progress Party has taken care to remove the airline passenger fee. It intends to reintroduce this government. Then I hear they say it's 70 kroner. Well, when we look in which direction this is going, where politicians use all the means to whip and plague people in climate policy, I think a lot of people in the living room have a hard time believing that it's going to be $70. The problem with the climate policy pursued by the government and by many others is simply that it affects ordinary people with ordinary incomes that cannot afford to spend money. If it's more expensive to fly, more expensive by car, more expensive by all means, this goes beyond ordinary people with ordinary incomes. That's why I wonder why the Right is involved in pursuing a policy that punishes ordinary people, and which allows rich people to live their lives only as they wish, whether it's in five years, ten years or more into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e259	If it had been as the representative Listhaug described it, I would have agreed, but that is not the case. We have an active climate policy, and that is because we want to stop the climate crisis. It is one of the greatest challenges of our time, and we know that the use of taxes and allowances in the EU is one of the most important means of reducing emissions. During the years we have spent together, we have increased the climate tax to make the polluter pay, but at the same time we have reduced other taxes and taxes. I hope that the representative Listhaug and the Progress Party will contribute to continued civil government, so that we can continue to lower taxes and taxes for most people, because that's what matters. When we reduce taxes on work, and when we reduce other taxes, it helps people get more back. And then we use the climate policy charges because it's going to punish itself to pollute and pay off getting the climate emissions down. We have to stop the emissions, not the evolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e266	The President will not cut the speaking time, but will remind both representatives and government councils to follow the speaking time available to them. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e273	My question goes to the Council of State, Røe Isaksen. We have a comprehensive entry from abroad of workers as commuters, who are temporarily employed or employed in employment agencies. This commuting is a major source of transmission. The Prime Minister stated at the press conference on 27 January, according to the VG: ‘In practice, the limit is closed for all non-residents in Norway. [[...]] Nevertheless, figures from the entry register show that there were 10,169 border crossings from night to Friday 29 January until 1 February, when the new measures would work, according to the Prime Minister. 42 pst. of these they say they have exemptions from the entry quarantine. There is no public overview of the number of total border crossing points of commuters. Over the last 20–25 years, Norway has been in a situation where we are not able to operate Norway with people living here. This makes us vulnerable and is an important reason why we have so many fully or partially employed people who do not get income-bearing work. This creates unworthy conditions for people – greater income differences and a strong increase in government expenditure above the Nav. We can't have it like that. The centre party is in favour of full employment and the fight against unemployment. Then we have to make the Storting more important. The size must control the large lines of the labour market. It is necessary to establish a balance between labour supply and demand. That is why we need to put in place a controlled labour immigration from all countries outside the Nordic region. We need to tighten the Working Environment Act, so that temporary employees are less and less legally employed. We need to ensure strong tripartite cooperation, strengthen professional organisation, facilitate better generalised collective agreements and improve the overall financial framework for enterprises in need of improved profitability, so that interested young people can take up education and bet on professions such as health professionals, fish professionals, butchers, walls and gardens. My question is, what is the government's plan to reduce our dependence on foreign workers who commute to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e289	The Government’s plan is to train Norwegian youth as a skilled Norwegian worker — get more people to choose a profession, get more apprenticeships. If the representative Lundtigen looks at developments before the Korona, it turns out that with that very thing we have come a long way. There's more people who get apprenticeship, there's more people who take a professional course, to mention something. I believe that the recipe that the representative Lundteg suggests will do the opposite. We need to read what is the policy behind the slogans here: to get control of labour immigration from outside the Nordic region, i.e. in practice Norway is reporting out of the EEA. What does that mean? Well, we cut the tape to the most important market we have. We can then argue that we should make a trade agreement with the European Union instead. Some have been inspired by what has happened in the United Kingdom. To put it that way: workers in export-oriented enterprises in the United Kingdom have not been given a safer everyday life and a safer job with what has happened in relation to Brexit — rather on the contrary. So the solution is to have two heads -- no, not to have two heads, but to have two thoughts in one head, at the same time. [[Laughter]] One is to make sure that we train more skilled workers. The SSB calculates that we can lack as many as 100,000 skilled workers in Norway by 2035. I am in favour of having a higher degree of self-sufficiency of Norwegian skilled workers. We do that by getting young people to choose a profession. The second thing I want to mention, which is my constitutional responsibility, is that if we are to do this, it will not only help with increased apprenticeship grants or to cooperate with the parties in order to increase recruitment to vocational training – we also need to work hard on unprofessional, criminal actors in the workplace. Continuing to clean up and continue to provide us with new tools to reduce working life crime is also crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e298	What the Council of State is now saying is that one in general is going to continue with today's policy. We are going to continue with today's policy, which means that the labour market in Norway is largely not to be governed by the Stortinget. The consequence of this is that those who talk in this room about full employment and the fight against unemployment do not have the means to implement it. It will continue as it has been. And as it has been, in some professions, great young people from abroad have a lot of access, who do a great job, but who help push down pay and work conditions. It will continue to be the Council of States and the right-wing government. Then he says we're going to get more vocational training. Yes, we agree. It is only those who are trained in a practical profession must have the security of permanent work and the security of proper income. And parents – and everyone – see that a number of industries do not have it: butchers, masons, gardeners and fish professionals. That's why we have to go into a system criticism. So the Council of State doesn't want to do anything about the big system?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e306	Neither I nor the government want to notify Norway out of the EEA – and that is the system criticism. Of course, it is both a privilege and an important thing to do with system criticism, but you also have to look at the realities, what the actual consequences of the policy you want become. Now, in the first post, I have already said something about the actual consequences of creating uncertainty about access to the largest market in Norwegian companies. Then we can take a step further: I agree that, as I have said, we must train several Norwegian skilled workers. We can't rely on imported labour to cover the whole need we have, but we're going to be dependent on labour immigration even in the years that come. The alternative for a Norwegian business, for example, a yard, which has strong fluctuations, sometimes assignments, sometimes not, to having the opportunity to rent in, often also from abroad, is not that everything continues as before. It may be that the yard is moving abroad, as so many other Norwegian yards have done before.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e313	There will be follow-up questions – first Per Olaf Lundtigen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e318	What we're presented here is that the government has no plan, has no plan. It wants you to continue with the system that, among other things, implies that the social partners have public tariff agreements of NOK 127 per hour. Does the government think that capable young people will be educated in those professions? Obviously they don't. Thus, there is a need for workers from outside, from abroad, who are willing to work under such conditions. Interestingly, when we talk about getting power over the labour market back to Stortinget, it's about getting out of the EEA. Many people do not agree that this is necessary. Is it really that the Right believes that taking power back to the main storeroom, i.e. the labour market, means that we have to leave the EEA? If that's the case, we're going to meet an interesting time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e325	I'm going to nuance my answer – and, of course, now I have to interpret what the representative Lundtigen means by his system critique: it's also another way, if you're going to take power back over, for example. formation of wages and salaries in Norway. In the case of minimum wages, even where they are generalised, that is, that we have fixed a statutory minimum wage, that is to say, that we set the minimum wage from the Stortinget and not between the social partners. It'll give the Big One greater power, but what's that going to do? Well, it will undermine some of the foundations of the Norwegian model in the world of work, which is that the parties are negotiating wages. When Brussels – and perhaps this would be the same – the representative Lundtigen suggests that they should introduce an EU-wide minimum wage, which may also apply to Norway, this government protests, together with all social partners. Because we have a tradition that social partners are the negotiators, not a tradition of political wages. So I think you should go to someone that the Center Party knows well, namely Norwegian agriculture, and ask, what would happen if we strangled the access to foreign labour?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e332	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e337	I can assure the Council of State that the Central Party is against EU-determined salary. I can assure you that we are on the point of making an agreement between the parties. The parties found that the situation was so difficult that one has to go away from that main principle of public service – we had to support it. The formation of wages and salaries shall take place between the social partners. However, it is quite easy to understand that when there is a surplus of labour in an industry, it will lead to a downward pressure on pay and working conditions. It also means that it happens downwards in the sectors where profitability is too weak. When the Council of State talks about agriculture and gardeners, I can stress that there is a weakness in profitability, and that is some of the cause of the problem in Norway as in all other countries. Will the Council of State, then, improve the profitability of the primary industries of fish and agriculture, so that one can pay a public tariff agreement in the construction sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e346	I have to admit that when we go into the concrete content of the agricultural agreements, we are outside both my constitutional responsibility and what I am capable of responding in detail to. But I agree that labour immigration is not without problematic aspects. It has, for example, problems caused by some craftsmen in Norway — in particular, there have been many examples of construction both because of criminal actors and because of the perhaps too easily employing hired labour instead of maintaining and building the skills you need yourself. That is why we have had to adjust by industry, and new measures have been put in place to reduce the crime of working life. A party that the right has also accepted that we should have generalised schemes, i.e. statutory minimum wages, in some sectors that are particularly vulnerable. We will continue to address the crime of working life with new measures. We're going to continue to work to get more Norwegian skilled workers, but we're not going to put the wealth we've had in the last 20 years, on games through experiments based on some diffuse social criticism.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e355	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e360	This is not a diffuse social criticism. And otherwise, I can inform the Council of State that it's not something called an agricultural agreement, but an agricultural agreement, and that's the general one, so the Council of State should have got along. Otherwise, employment policy is the responsibility of the Council of State. Who works in agriculture is now a fierce question. We have to train gardeners, so we can keep up with that food production on our own, and then we have to raise the profitability, so that those who run these businesses can pay it. And there are great opportunities for that. There are great opportunities to get it up if the Council of State wants to. Instead, the Council of State says, "We're not going to change the system in any way." Only the old lesson comes: now we're going to train more skilled workers. To what? To the level of earnings that you cannot live on in Norway? Here, there is a need for system criticism, and I find that the Council of State is not interested in it, but that debate is going to go outside this Chamber. It is one of the most important debates we have now on long-term post-corona measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e369	I immediately take self-criticism with regard to the agricultural agreement and the agricultural agreement, it is done. I can see the approach angle of the representative Lundteg. The problem is that he says A, and then he doesn't draw the consequences by saying B and C as well. This is the case in this specific situation: Take Norwegian agriculture, e.g., security of supply, Norwegian food security – the fact that we have both planted and harvested crops is crucial. So last year we made special rules for, for example: to get more unemployed to take a job in Norwegian agriculture. I'm willing to think again about mass. I am willing to think again about e.g. the way in which we have the day-to-day payroll scheme today, where a reporting hour instead of income – does this prevent more dynamism in the labour market? The problem is that this is not what Mr Lundteg wants. Lundtigen wants almost a system revolution, and I can't be part of it as a conservative right-wing man.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e378	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e384	Finally, all policies are concrete. It's about people's lives. Now we have high-recorded leave in Norway. A Norwegian saying is that idleness is the root of all evil. We see that, especially among those who work in the service, such as cooks and waitresses, those who work in the hotel, those who work in the aviation sector, cabin staff, there are many who have great, great uncertainties about their job, are licensed or have lost their job. We politicians have a responsibility to try and get things right. We see some very negative developments. We see it coming in international actors, such as Wizz Air, and pushing the working conditions of aviation further. Does the Council of State think it's positive, or does he think it's negative? Then the government made a grip in the middle of this crisis. One gave a free slip for the taxi industry, when we know that many thousands of taxi drivers are already having trouble getting a salary to live off. Is it good conservative policy to give a free slip to people like Uber, when so many are already struggling?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e393	I do not wish to welcome Wizz Air to Norway. I do not want companies that – at least based on the statements that have come – are anti-union, do not want the employees to organise themselves. I believe that there is no good contribution. I suppose more members of the government have said the same. Does this mean that we are to block establishment by law? No, that does not mean, but it means that as politicians we also have a responsibility to point out the value of Norwegian employment and in a well-organised working life for both workers and employers. I do not agree with the description – although it is also in another area – of the fact that it has been free slip for the taxi industry. It hasn't been. But what's not good conservative policy is just trying to preserve when the world changes. The reason for this is very simple: the risk you run is not that everything stays the way it is, but that evolution runs from, and when the change finally comes, it becomes more extensive and more fundamental.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e402	Arild Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e407	It will not help a single Norwegian youth into work if politicians spend their time discussing for or against the EEA Agreement, as Lundtigen puts it. It's just looking at the brexit. Rather, it has reinforced the problems of underpayment of workers. What will help is if Norwegian employers offer safe jobs under safe conditions and with a salary to live on. Here comes the youth. It's been showing us offshore for years. This means that it is not just encouraging young people to take vocational training; some people need to ask for skilled workers, for example. through public procurement rules favouring serious enterprises with permanent employees, skilled workers and apprentices, so that businesses have to compete to obtain professionals and apprentices rather than cheap hired labour. We in the Labour Party have a long list of proposals that will be able to create good jobs for people quickly, but all that is right down – yesterday at the latest. Why is the Right so reluctant to give the trade union workers a job and the apprentices a future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e416	It's hard to answer such a polemic question, other than that of course we're not. Then it's a separate explanation of why. Even when other parties are in government, it is common for us not to vote immediately for all proposals that come from the Storting, which can be positive, among other things. Because you're working on it. We're coming up with a new work-life crism strategy, it's just around the corner. There's nothing new we've started with now, we started with the first one in history when we got into government. So it's not just good intentions, and at least it's not that a government council says it, which makes more people choose professional subjects. Yes, it is important to clean up in the branches that are unprofessional. I mean then, for example. construction has come well on the way. But politics is also important. That is why we have supported, will support and will also present new measures to combat unprofessional actors and ensure good, proper, decent conditions. Then it is important for the apprentice grant, which has increased, and it is important that we make demands through public procurement, for example: the apprentice requirement, which came with this government. Former governments seem to have found it too difficult to get in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e425	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e430	We have a record number of unemployed, while there is a shortage of labour in important industries. We've seen that we're struggling to implement the scribal if you don't get – at least it says the industry itself – access to the labour force from Lithuania. In such a situation, I fully agree with the Council of State, which has said that employers should call Nav rather than call Poland – I fully agree with that. Then perhaps the problem is that the invitation is not taken by employers, and this may include, among other things. about access to people from poorer countries than Norway, it may be easier to reduce working conditions when you have access to it per day. To be concrete, what will the Council of State do when employers obviously do not call Nav, but primarily call Poland or Lithuania? What's in the government toolbox to do something about that particular problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e437	In the acute situation that we're in now, what Nav is doing is finding workers ready to start. But it is probably such that although I would like to see many more Norwegian youths go into both Norwegian agriculture as seasonal workers and pick strawberries and join the important scribal process, it is worth remembering on the back carpet here. We have had 20 years of economic activity in Norway, although we have also had some crises. It's probably not that a country whose biggest problem has been, and will probably be, a shortage of labour will rig its entire system to ensure that we can only have the Nordics standing on the fish recipients on land under the scribal. Let me just give you an example: we have a daily allowance scheme that is designed to ensure that you get compensation for your salary. That means that if you become free as a mechanical engineer or as a car mechanic, the pay is there on the starting point. It's a higher salary than you get, for example. in agriculture and fisheries. Of course, harmonizing the two by cutting the day-to-day arrangements is a bad idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e442	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e447	There have been laughs for many years, but there has also been a marked fall in the number of employees among particularly men from the working class in Norway during the same period. So there's something fundamentally wrong with the system when we look at the two things up against each other. What I'm wondering about is the government's view of the role of the manpower industry when it comes to a major unemployment crisis that we now have, where the staff agencies are obviously not able to get enough work for the unemployed. Red wants the state to take a much greater responsibility to ensure that vacant hands find vacant jobs and vice versa, while the recruitment agencies themselves are struggling quite thoroughly now and – as we saw in the class struggle yesterday – refuse to permit employees, because then you will be given the right to leave money, and they do not want to give it to the employees they have in their own staff. Does the government see the need for the state to take greater responsibility for the employment service than it has done up to now, not least in the current crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e456	Now I have to agree with Red's representative on two points. One is a big problem that gets too little attention, the level of employment, that is, the number of jobs, especially among men – call it the working class, I am the Right-Man, says socio-economic background variables instead, but we can use class in this context. This is due to a number of different features in our society, including: that many industrial workplaces have disappeared, although industry is still in decline, many professions have disappeared and skills requirements are higher. Then I also agree that the state should do more to match those who have free hands, with job vacancies. We do that through action areas, we do that through the fact that Nav is on, among other things. Nav now has quite concrete lists of people who can go into the fishing on land. But then the industry might also see that they need to have a little bit more predictability, perhaps by having a closer cooperation with Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e462	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e467	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. This year we've really seen how much well-being and community means. But a welfare state and a community that stands up for each other do not come of itself. It's because of the trust between us here in the country and a policy that benefits. Increased inequality threatens both. When the differences become too large between us, the glue in society weakens. We lose trust in each other. The emergence of the welfare state and the policy of redistribution is also weakened, giving a negative spiral that further increases the inequality. This isn't just about how much money you have in your account or in your company, or how much money you can spend on a yacht or on cabins, and it's after all a roof on how many cabins you can own yourself as rich. No, it's primarily about power. When the richest get a greater share of income and wealth in Norway, they also increase their political power, a power that they use to make use of a policy that benefits them. I believe that we have seen the distortion of power under the corona pandemic when the crisis policy has been designed. In the NRK today we can read that five companies, many with capital owners, have received more than half of the money from the cash support. In the class struggle we could read that one of the richest shipowners in Norway, who barely pays taxes, less than an average Northman, has received 260 million. kr in State aid. And the NHO has systematically worked to raise the level of compensation and support through this pandemic. So my question to the Minister of Finance is whether the government is at all assessing how the crisis policy increases or reduces the inequality in Norway, and whether you see these large, unfair outcomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e480	There are good questions that Kaski raises. There is no doubt that the crisis is striking differently, and it is striking in a distorted way. It affects industries differently, and it affects disparately among people. The hardest hit are those who often have little education and low wages, young people, school students, long-term unemployed, and that is also the background that we have, throughout this crisis, just been concerned about having measures targeted at these groups. That's what we launched last year, when we launched the strategy for the way out of the crisis – that we have to create more, but also include more. That is why we are focusing more on integration in this crisis. We focus more on measures for vulnerable groups. We are now implementing a training promise for more young people to be able to receive education. We've made it possible to take education with a daily allowance. We have a number of other interventions targeted specifically at young people, and have also opened up more use of summer schools for the summer. This is related, because we have to make sure that we come out with the strength we had before the crisis, that is, a society where we trust each other, where we have cohesion, and where we also have little differences. This is very conscious of the government, and we are also concerned that the measures need to be corrected so that we lift those who are now struggling. Then I also agree that we must be critical of power concentration on private hands, in the same way that we must be on state hands. That's why I'm too spread of power. We're going to have a strong private ownership, but we have to spread power and make sure that we have more partners, and that we also increase the opportunity for more people to become partners in our own business. Finally, regarding the compensation scheme: Yes, we are open to adjust. If you had gone back to what the government proposed, some of the biggest companies would have gotten a little less.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e493	It was never SV who pushed that roof up. On the contrary, we have proposed to lower it, and I would like to encourage the government parties to participate and form a majority for it. We're going to get back to talking about the many who are out of the way, and those who get less advice, but I want to talk about them at the top, the ones who really subtract, and to which the state now gives extra money, so that they can subtract. In Bergen’s Official Journal today, we can read about car dealers who are in favour of – who are in surplus – and who have received a lot of state support. In the case, one of the owners said that they never considered going to other owners or to the bank to get the money they needed at the beginning of the pandemic. He says, ‘To put it that way, if you have the opportunity to receive support from Nav or Enova, you do not go to the bank and ask for a loan.’ Is it acceptable that we have support schemes that so much fill the pockets of companies and owners who already have a lot of capital – many of them also have foreign shareholders – rather than prioritizing the smaller businesses and people most?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e507	I would warn against generalizing, as the representative Kaski now does. The vast majority of owners and managers are fighting a fight for their businesses to secure the jobs of their employees. There are certainly examples of those who exploit the system, and it has to be broken down. That being said, one of the most important things for the way out of the crisis is to facilitate the creation of more jobs in the private sector. Private and private jobs are now affected by closure and are affected by both the national and global economic crisis. This means that we need to facilitate the creation of more jobs in the private sector. And if you want to create more jobs in the private sector, you also need private capital. There is also a background for the government to reduce the tax on working capital. This is because private capital must be available to invest in Norwegian jobs. We will need that in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e514	It opens for follow-up questions – first Kari Elisabeth Kaski.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e519	I'm not going to make it happen, because if you want to maintain the scattered ownership in Norway and all the smaller owners and small businesses, who are now perhaps struggling most to keep their heads above the water – I've met some of these in Oslo – the way from these, who are trying to save their employees, to the owners of the seismic company PGS, Hurtigruten or the shipowner that we could read about in the class struggle today, is quite long. When we also see that the stock exchange and the stock prices go so far as to laugh, we are going to be in a situation where the differences in Norway increase dramatically because of the coronary apathy, but also because of the crisis policy that has been led by the state and the government, which has filled up the pockets of those who already have a lot and who have not had to bear the same risk as the owners of the small businesses here in Oslo, for example, or on Trysil, or as the 30,000 outrights, who have been outright since March, have had to. This is my challenge to the Minister of Finance: why not be more dramatic about crisis policy in order to reduce disparities?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e524	I have not seen so many proposals from SV in that area. What we have agreed on is that we should have good permitting arrangements, and that we should increase the level of compensation for those who earn the least. There has been a broad consensus on this in Stortinget. Those arrangements have been extended. An important part of the crisis policy is to ensure that those who are outsourced or lose their jobs are well compensated. We've also opened up that several of those who are on leave can take education while they go on a day's payroll. Since last year, the government has also pointed to the dilemmas of the compensation scheme. We proposed a reduction in the level of compensation until August. We have also proposed a lower ceiling on the schemes. It's because we also see that it's the largest groups that can raise capital in the market, which, with a very high ceiling, could be better compensated. That being said, these are also enterprises that have many employees and many jobs, and they are the most important way out of the crisis – to make sure that people have a job to go back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e531	Solfrid Lerbreck – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e536	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. We know that with a crisis in society, differences are accelerating, and this coronary crisis seems to have the same effect. Therefore, good and proper action is so important. People who are being permitted have been in crisis packages for a long time. People on redundancy pay received a six-month extension of the scheme, which is much shorter than this pandemic has been until now, and people on redundancy money who are looking for a job have now, in the last few days, had an extension, but not the others who are on redundancy money. Isn't this a very unfair distinction between sick and healthy people in the same order? Several of those who have spent a long time on redundancy money also face major and often complex health challenges. Is it true that they have not been the framework of the delays in the health system more than a six-month extension at the beginning of the crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e545	The reason why we have now proposed to extend the scheme for AAP recipients who are job seekers, i.e. those who have completed their work and are job seekers, is that it is reasonable to compare them, which are then to enter the labour market, with those who are to enter the labour market. So when the labour market is in crisis, as it is now – this is greater than the financial crisis, greater than the oil price drop – it is reasonable that they will get an extension. So it was reasonable in ours that everyone got an extension. These included: because almost all Nav's actions had to be shut down, and Nav's capacity had been blown up, and so they could not have that follow-up. It also means that when I haven't proposed an extension now, it's because the feedback we get from Nav is that the follow-up is basically what it's been before. It also means that if we get into a situation where we see that Nav does not have a real opportunity to clarify, we have to evaluate it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e555	Solfrid Lerbreck – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e560	That government presented the crisis response now last Friday, had largely a duration until July, i.e. in the middle of the summer holidays. I expect that the government has assessed the consequences of dismantling several important support schemes for families and individuals on 1 July. Many people in Nav go out on vacation then, and there will most likely be a reduced crew or many holidaymakers in Nav. This makes it a little daunting for people who suddenly can stand without money in the middle of the summer vacation. I know the government has to evaluate the situation continuously, but if there's going to be liquidation then, it's most likely to frame a lot of families. I would also like to remind you that the decision taken in Stortinget on this matter was 1 October 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e567	In order to take the last one first, the budget has decided to extend it until 1 October. What remains is to make a budgetary decision and, in some cases, a legislative decision. All of this lies in a proposition currently being discussed in the Labour and Social Committee, an additional proposition that came three days after the decision of the Storting in most of these areas. So there's no doubt that this is going to be extended, because that's what the Storting has decided. It is an important reminder that when part goes out of the arrangements in the summer, Nav should be there too. Because we know that some of them like this. have not been clarified, either for disability or for the labour market, in the AAP, need further assistance from Nav. So that's a good reminder that I'm going to take with me, and that we were also aware of from before. But we're not shutting down the possibility of getting the help you need, even if it's summer. We're not going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e574	Eigil Knutsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e579	I stick to the Minister of Finance in this round. I want to follow up on Kaski’s main issues of inequality in Norway, because even before the coronary apathy came to Norway, increasing disparities were a major and growing social problem. One of the main reasons why differences in Norway increased before the crisis was that the richest became even richer, while they were at least downhill. The government has previously made a big announcement about inequality, with good issues – I think it was before today’s Finance Minister became Finance Minister, but in any case the same government. Nevertheless, the government has not in the past wanted to address the main cause of increasing inequality in Norway, that the richest are getting richer, by allowing them to participate with the most participation in the split layer. My question concerns developments when we look through the coronary crisis and out of it: will the government make some new assessments that can make them the most involved in contributing more to the community, so that we reduce the differences out of the crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e588	Of course, those who have the most must also do the most. But what we've seen in this crisis is that the hardest hit are those who have a weak connection to the world of work. It is not that they get any better if the Workers' Party increases the tax on working capital, the so-called property tax. They can do better by focusing more on education, by focusing more on integration, by focusing more on measures for those who are long-term unemployed. I think we are very much in agreement that it is important that we have little differences in Norway, that we have confidence in each other, but we obviously disagree a little about what the instruments are. My answer is education, education, education. The more people who complete high school, the more people who get a letter, the more people who get a job to go to, the more likely we are to be able to maintain what makes Norway one of the world's best societies to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e593	Eigil Knutsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e598	There is no one in this room who disagrees that education is one of the most important things to lower the inequality, but also to give people the opportunity to live a good life. But it's the government itself that says in its disparity that the richest are getting even richer, the main driver is behind the increasing inequality. I believe that those who get out of the Korona crisis, who get out of work and leave their seats, will be better off with the Labour Party's policies – if we reduce the differences. That the richest are going to contribute more is part of it. One could now read in the class struggle today that a person who is barely paying taxes in Norway has received 260 million. kr in emergency aid, while we see that the permised unemployed, who like to pay more in taxes, do not receive holiday pay. When we have come as far as we have come in the crisis, the government will also look at reinforced measures for those who have been unemployed or on leave, for example. give them access to holiday money this summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e605	Now, last Friday, we presented a 16-billion-billion-dollar crisis package. kr. One week before that, we put forward an additional proposition of over 2 billion. kr. That means almost 20 billion. kr in the course of a week. The 20 billions are roughly equal to the space of action that future governments will have in five consecutive budgets. We now spend a lot of money both to secure the jobs and to ensure that those affected by the crisis get the necessary help. I believe that this is necessary, but there have now been proposals with large sums, which I believe we should be able to discuss an even better arrangement so that we can contribute to a lifting out of the crisis. But let me again also stress that the most important thing to reduce the differences is that people have a job to go to. We also need private owners who are willing to spend their own money on investing in Norwegian jobs. It's good with a rich state, but we also need more private owners. We need more jobs in the private sector, so people have a job to do when we can put this crisis behind us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e612	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e617	The finance minister can take a break. My question goes to the Minister of Labour. It's been many years since we realized that a pandemic could be one of the greatest threats facing society. That the spread of infection is an obvious threat when a pandemic comes, is quite obvious. That the spread of infection could result in the closure of farms should not come as the Christmas evening on the kärringa either. Nor did parents have to be at home when schools and kindergartens shut down could surprise them. In that case, it is particularly important that there is a plan to ensure the economic security of the population in such events and that preparedness planning is prepared. My question is, what plans did the Minister of Labour and his department have to meet such a situation when the pandemic came?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e627	Nav has a crisis plan, and we also have a general crisis plan for different situations in the department. Nav has a crisis plan that also includes pandemics. But as I have said publicly – I may have also said it from this pulpit earlier: Nav had no plank that prepared us for the situation that came in March-April, with an explosion in the number of unemployed and permitted. There is no parallel to this in peacetime in Norway. This was not the financial crisis or the oil price drop – it was plus even more. It meant that there was a very difficult situation for Nav, also because the Storting, not only the majority, but a unanimous increase, wanted changes in the arrangements and new arrangements. Where I think it has worked well, there we have been able to use the arrangements we have, in a flexible way, adapted to the situation. It's e.g. related to care days. There may, of course, be discussion about timing and when you should do what, but it is possible to put in place simple and fast arrangements, so that people can be sure that if, for example. the school and kindergarten are closed, they shall be able to take out care days. As an overall point, as both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health have said before, and as I would like to repeat, there is an independent investigation of the processes under the pandemic, planning ahead, etc., where my department also answers questions and presents what we get. There are certainly other things that could have been done along the way. It is certainly also such that in several areas we could be better prepared for what came, especially in March and April last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e636	I then understand that the Council of State believes that it was not well prepared in March and April, and that the Stortinget had to help put in place the necessary arrangements. We have now discussed border closure almost the entire pandemic period, and especially in the autumn. Now the limit is closed, and there is full chaos for those who normally commute across the border. They are neither licensed from the job they had, nor unemployed. The result is that they do not have an income insurance scheme. I expect the Council of State will say yes, we're working on that. It was just supposed to be missing, but that's not the answer I want to get. Why have you not, when you have seen that this was a situation that could arise, prepared for what was to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e643	First, I must point out that I may not be able to fully support the description that Stortinget only helped. There was a unanimous growth in favour of these measures, including the government parties, but there is no doubt that there was an important contribution to Nav being put under much greater pressure. The fact that new arrangements had to be put in place that was not there before, meant that there were further delays, even though the massive amount of applications for daily allowances had, of course, created a much longer processing time. In the current situation, including EEA workers, inter alia: Swedes who commute to Norway are excluded, I have said that if the parties believe that this is a basis for permitting, we have a good and tidy system to deal with it. Then Nav is ready to pay the day money. But as the representative of Aasrud knows well, it's the parties who own it, it's not the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and they can have different thoughts about this, for good reason. Then we might have to look at other arrangements for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e650	There will be follow-up questions – first Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e655	My follow-up question is to the Minister of Labour. The President of Storting and I live in an area that is extra hard hit by the pandemic. When the pandemic goes over, we know that it takes a long time before the activity at the airport gets up. Avinor has probably calculated that the activity is not up until 2025. That means that this pandemic hits very unevenly, and some areas are hit very much harder than others. That's 8.5 pst. leave in Nannestad, Eidsvoll and Ullensaker now, so it's very much. Then my question is, what will the Council of State do to ensure that those who are unemployed get something else to do? Will the Council of State contribute to a migration package in this region, where we see that very many are available, very many are going to be available for a long time, and that both mother and father are out of work in many families?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e664	There is no doubt that some areas have been hit much harder than others, among other things. municipalities how many people work at Gardermoen airport. I think the most important thing now is to use the measures we have. Now, of course, the hope is that by following the rules on the protection of infection, we can get the most jobs open as quickly as possible, that air traffic will get started, and that people can come back to work. It's an important element in it. The second is that we've changed the legislation now. If you went on a daily allowance, it was before a Berlin Wall went on to the education and competence system. Now that wall is torn – without comparison to the demolition of the real Berlin wall otherwise. Using time now to take the letter you never received, or to fill in your skills, is also an important idea. Given the need for additional measures aimed at particular regions, I cannot answer yes or no to Norway’s return. I believe that first we need to get the infection down and get people back to work. It's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e673	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e678	I agree that we have to get the infection down, but in all parts of Norway we know that things will go a lot more up when the pandemic is over, while in this area, which is very hard hit, in view of international air traffic, will take a lot longer. That's my whole point. A lot of people I talk to, take additional training and a letter of formal education now, but it's not jobs, and it's going to take a long time for those jobs to come. Then my question is: will the Minister of Labour consider a separate conversion package for Upper Rome, which is particularly hit under the pandemic and will be particularly hard hit over time even after the pandemic is over?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e685	That's what I said. My answer was neither no nor yes. I will not deny that there may be a need for packages related to specific areas that are affected any longer, over time. It's also an important task for the system I run, Nav, to make sure that you can match people with the jobs that are there. It is also important that although this is a hard hit area, it is also part of a larger region with many jobs. But again, the goal is first and foremost to get the infection down, so that as much as possible can come back to work and work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e692	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e697	The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs may remain at his reading – or a speaker’s chair. We are now discussing a lot of issues related to the pandemic and the major challenges it presents. But before this pandemic really broke out, our society also had challenges. These are the challenges we still have to address, as the same problems will still be there when the pandemic is over. Because even in a normal situation, many are concerned about their economy. Many of the country's pensioners have good reason to be concerned. First of all, when you become a retired person, you're going down pretty hard in income from what you had when you were an employee. That's something everyone is aware of in advance. But then the Labour Party, the Center Party, SV, Right, Christian People's Party and Left chose to introduce the famous pension reform, which only the Progress Party voted against. It meant that the country's pensioners are to be subordinated to their pension every year. As a result, the country's pensioners have been reduced in purchasing power for many years before the pandemic. The forecasts show that the country's pensioners will continue to reduce their purchasing power in the years to come. This is why the Progress Party, having been voted down many times, chose to try to join the SV and the Pensioners' Association in a compromise proposal that would ensure the country's pensioners a decent future income development. My question is: Does the Council of State still believe that the country's pensioners should be underregulated by 0.75 p.m., or has he now turned around and will contribute to a decent income development for the country's pensioners?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e711	I believe that the pension agreement is important and necessary. But that's also how, as the representative Wiborg knows, we have set up a pension commission to look at any adjustments in the reform. This does not mean that the basic principles are taken up for discussion. The basic principle is: go out and find an 18-year-old and look at what kind of pension he or she wants in the future. It will be worse in a sustainable system than most pensioners have today. Now, the idea behind the pension reform is that there should be a balance where today’s pensioners also contribute a little, through underregulation. We can discuss the exact way it's done, because today it's a fixed rate minus 0.75 pst., while the starting point of the pension agreement was that it was going to be an average of pay and price. It can be operated in many ways, which also have different consequences. If you had followed that rigour, it would mean that these last years, when the salary growth has been low, the pensioners would get a little bit more, while they would have gotten less years before, when the salary growth was high. I just want to add one last thing. The Right Party and the Advance Party share an important feature, and it is that we believe – or know – that taxes and taxes are important for the economy of people, but we also believe it is a goal that the state should not use more than necessary. We're gonna have to keep a good house with taxpayers' money. It's also true in a pandemic, even though we're spending a lot of money in the future now. But we also believe in tax relief within a sustainable economic framework. This means that if you look at the sum of pensioners' income trends, including taxes and taxes, on which the Progress Party has been involved, it's like that, that all pensioners' groups together are better off with the sum of the financial arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e720	The country's pensioners now have expenses. This means that you cannot always push this in front of you and wait for a pension commission in several years. How a society takes care of its older people says a lot about what kind of society we actually have. Those who built our country, either by being out of work or by working at home, as many women did up to several decades ago, we in Norway have said to be guaranteed a decent minimum level through the minimum pension. The party of progress has thought it has been shamefully low, and therefore we have pressed for it to be increased, through several rounds. But we still have a minimum pension well below the poverty line. My question, to which I hope the Council of State can clearly answer yes or no, is: does the Council of State accept that Norwegian minimum pensioners live below the poverty line?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e731	I believe that the system we have today, based on the pension agreement, is basically a right system. But it is also the case that this pension commission that has been set down, where the Progress Party has also been allowed to whisper in the ear who they want as a representative there, should look at, among other things. the development of minimum pensions. In the case of minimum pensions, it's important to remember that we've created another system of regulation. Minimum pensions are regulated by wage growth precisely because we want to provide a more favourable treatment for minimum pensioners than for others. There is probably a fundamental difference here, not because I disagree with the fact that how we take care of our older people is absolutely crucial for a society – I fully agree with that – but how we take care of those who are going to build the country is also quite crucial for a society. How we take care of the pension system and society that my children and their grandchildren are going to have, that they should not be left with an excessive bill or a system that does not bear, is at least an important principle for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e738	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e743	My question goes to the Minister of Culture. Children and young people must take a disproportionate amount of noise because of the coronary crisis and the occasional social breakdowns. One of the serious and sad consequences of this is that sport is also being shut down. Kids don't get training, they don't get the physical activity, the joy, the companionship and the community that sport represents. For many of the small ones, it's also more serious than that, for the training maybe represents a break from life at home with uneasy relationships. Now sports circles across the country report a major decline due to the closure and coronary apathy. Furne's football club in Ringsack, where I come from, has lost 100 players. Clubs all over the country have the same numbers. They are worried about those who are not coming back, that they will end up in the sofa and behind a screen. We need a plan to rock sport through the crisis. We need to look in particular at how we can trap the vulnerable kids, and we need concrete measures to fix or prevent the drop. Last week I asked the Minister of Culture a written question asking whether he would agree to the Workers' Party's demand to sit down and make such a binding plan by the authorities. The council didn't answer the question, so I'll give him the chance again here today: Will the Council of State plan to strengthen sport through the crisis, in particular with measures to prevent childhood and young people from falling away?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e756	I would like to thank you for the question, and not least for addressing this important issue. I think we can agree that it is not a desired situation for some politicians in the country to have to shut down children and the activities of young people. For me, who is a politician from a liberal party, it is very much in the hands of the state to go in and decide on the privacy of people and how to organise the practical life of society – business, sport, volunteering and culture. It's the pandemic that has made us in the situation that we have to take our precautions. The government set very early priorities, and the government has always chosen to give priority to life and health first. Then, as number two – and this has been said by the Prime Minister and the rest of the government all the time – we will and should give priority to children and young people. So have we. Where it has been possible to open up activities for children and young people, we have also arranged for them to be kept open as well as to be shut down as far as possible. To the extent that they have been shut down, they have also been the first thing that it has been opened up to. And we're going to do that now. We did this early after we shut down in March last year. One of the first to open up was just leisure activities for children and young people. I myself am a three-child father and have children in both sport and culture, and it's clear that we as parents are very familiar with this. We have also provided various incentives for sport and volunteering, which help to stimulate activity under the relevant measures. We are in weekly dialogue with the Sports Association, including this, and of course we have to follow up on the point that the representative raises. We have also done that in connection with the allocation funds for NCI, and we have taken it up in the various meetings. We will continue to do that, and we will continue to make good plans to prevent the decline in sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e767	There is no one who believes that the government is keeping the latitude closed if they are not allowed, and I am very aware that the government also opens up to the latitude when you can. What I'm talking about is the consequences of the fact that the sport has had to be closed as much as it has had to be in the course of the year, that those consequences are serious, and that we need, on the part of the government, to strengthen sport, so that sport gets rocked through this crisis, and that action needs to be taken to get these kids who have now fallen off, back again. This is actually about giving the sport movement what the sport is asking for, about the construction and upgrading of facilities across the country, about providing full VAT compensation, about cleaning up the pension requirements that will cost volunteering and sport expensive in the future, and about building more BUA stations. So I ask again: will the Council of State meet the demands of sport and the Workers' Party to strengthen sport with these measures in order to bring them back to life through the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e776	I don't think the representative has got it, but we have an added value compensation for the construction of sports facilities, and if I'm not mistaken, all those years the bourgeois government has been sitting there, you have fully compensated for it for sports facilities. We announced that we would have an escalator, up to 1.8 billion. NOK, in the case of VAT compensation, and we have also delivered it in 2021. Then I hear the Workers' Party talk about that we have to provide more money, but if we look at what we've provided from extra funds in the Ministry of Culture's budget, then I think the figure is now up to $8.7 billion. kr with the last we promoted, last Friday. 100 million of that is additions that the population has done. The rest of those funds, $8.6 billion. kr, this government and the Ministry of Culture have initiated. So I think the bulk of the population can take the credit for 1.1 pst. of that increase. The rest of it we do, because we're just volunteering, for culture and for sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e783	There will be follow-up questions – first Anette Trettebergstien.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e788	It is now time that the means of compensation for sport and volunteering do not hit well enough, and the failure and economic impoverishment take place despite it. Then you have to take it in and see that you have to do things differently. I can't understand why we have to sit and think of new bureaucratic compensation schemes all the time instead of just doing what we know works: fulfilling the requirement of full VAT compensation, building and upgrading the facilities around the country, cleaning up the pension chaos and building more equipment libraries, so that kids can borrow equipment free of charge. These are measures proposed by the Workers' Party and which sport wants. I ask again, when all of us are concerned about the loss of sport, and we want to rock sport through the crisis, why can't the Council of State look at these good measures, which will take from day one, and meet the demands of the sports and workers party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e795	I just explained that we have set up full VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities, and what we had promised on VAT compensation for volunteering and sport in general, we have also delivered at: 1.8 billion. kr. And we've set up compensation packages, which we've initiated, that can't really take credit for. It is also not possible to recognise when the representative says that those funds are not used, because they will be used. The Lotteries and Foundations also deal with applications a lot, and the scheme is actually used by volunteering and sports. The funds are paid out of this. I don't remember the exact number, but we're up to tens of thousands, we're up to 25 000, I think, who's been looking for the different means of sports and volunteering. If the representative sends me a written question, she will get an accurate calculation of how many have applied and how many have received, but that scheme is both well used and well managed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e809	The oral question time is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e823	There will be some changes in the set question list, and the President will show you in that context of the e-salap. The changes were as follows: Question no. 3, by Sandra Borch, to the Ministry of Justice and Defence, has been withdrawn. Question no. 7, by the representative Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen of the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, has been withdrawn. Question no. 8, from the representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen to the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e839	‘We hear about kindergarten owners who collect money and invest in, among other things. oil, a Viking ship and luxury property in Spain. While welfare professionals are enriching, whole changes in the kindergarten law are waiting for them. The Government has agreed with the Advance Party to reduce a rapid selection, including the following: the organisation of commercial kindergartens. What will be the mandate of the selection body when it is appointed, the union of employees will be represented and will the government propose legislative changes that can be expected to be addressed by the Storinge in ours?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e846	As the representative referred to, it was decided, as part of the state budget for 2021, that the government should set up a rapid-working sample there, among others. KS and PBL were to participate. They shall be entrusted with the task of financing private kindergartens, including the possibility of loans from the Husbank. The Ministry has now designed the mandate and has also put together a selection that provides a good representation of the parties in the sector. The mandate is well published on the Ministry's website during the day, and all the invited parties have received letters and invitations to participate. Those invited to participate are representatives from the KS, the PBL, the Education Association, the Trade Union and the Working Party. The aim is that this should be a wide-ranging sample representing all the main parties in the sector, thereby also giving different views and points of view to this discussion. I just have to say that I look forward to getting the report from this sample. They have been given a deadline of 15 June to deliver their report. It will be an important part of the decision-making base for further policy development for the kindergarten sector. As the representative refers to, the department has reviewed the legislation relating to private kindergartens, and I have also followed up several of the proposals that were sent at the hearing in spring 2019. The picture that we haven't done anything, I don't think it's right, but it's clear that there are several major changes we've needed to spend more time on. Before the summer Stortinget adopted the government’s proposal for a new national financial supervision for private kindergartens. I believe that the national supervision will have much better assumptions than the municipalities have today to look at the private kindergartens that are part of groups and that have demanding forms of organisation. I believe that this will lead to both better and more effective supervision of private operators. Government grants represent large amounts of money that it is important to benefit children in kindergarten. I am concerned that we have legislation that ensures that the funds for the private kindergartens are used for the purpose for which they have been granted. I am also concerned that we should see any changes in context and create a regulation that works well as a whole, and that is overdue. Then, too, changes in the framework conditions for private kindergartens will have a major impact not only on the actors themselves, but also on parents, children and employees. This is also the background to the need to process several of the proposals we sent at the hearing in 2019. It includes proposals to ensure better control of funds in private kindergartens, including accounting requirements and documentation requirements. At the hearing in 2019, we proposed to introduce a requirement that each private nursery should be organised as a separate legal entity. In the light of the input to the hearing, the Ministry has looked at two alternatives to this proposal, including: obtained two new BDO reports to elucidate and assess alternative regulation. Because this is so central to the private players, we will as far as possible assess the consequences, benefits and disadvantages of the different options. As I have notified before, I will come back to Stortinget when we have completed these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e863	The changes mentioned are good, but they do nothing about the problems of profit, property sales and the like, which have been on the agenda for many years. It's been three years since the government itself said that the nursery law is out of date. While the government is postponing changes in a law they themselves have called out-of-date, the money is also running out of the sector. An overall welfare service selection last wrote that: ‘to the extent that any gain can be attributed to the sale of property below market prices, it should be assessed whether this may result from unlawfully granted State aid’;» The large values taken from the kindergarten sector by commercial owners show that there is already a solid deficit. In order to avoid the aging of cases, it is problematic if the assessment of whether there has been unlawful State aid is not carried out immediately. Is this also an assessment that the government will postpone and with the risk that any unlawful State aid will continue to go out to commercial companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e877	The Welfare Service Committee delivered its report in December, and that report is now being consulted. I just want to say that it is a very thorough report that is perhaps the most thorough review of welfare services and economic conditions we have had. They went particularly deep into the kindergarten sector, because they found out that it was both where it was the most profitable, and where the need for change was greatest. It is clear that this investigation will be a very important knowledge base for this fast-working sample we are now putting down. They made a number of proposals for changes in the funding of private kindergartens and also the way we regulate it. I think it's important that we now review these proposals, and I think that this we can actually call a party selection, is a very good arena to discuss many of those proposals, look at the benefits and disadvantages of them, and what we achieve. I believe it is important that we both look at how we regulate profit, and not least at how we use funding to ensure both quality and diversity in the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e884	But we've been doing this for years. In May 2018, a report by the Ministry had ordered from BDO showed a market failure in which the largest kindergarten chains take over the sector by buying-in due to their strong financial capacity and that they also have a higher operating margin. When Melbys said that the findings of the report show that today’s legislation is out of date and that there is a need for new rules adapted to the current situation, so that the subsidy money benefits the children. He also said, ‘For example, it is not possible that a kindergarten spends money on buying holiday homes abroad and very high wages’.» Nevertheless, we see an example of this, at the latest in the newspaper last week, without looking at anything about the announced changes in this area to prevent just the kind of profit that the government announced they would stop three years ago. Is it like that Melby wants to wait until after the big shot, so she doesn't take the confrontation with the welfare professionals, just to avoid doing anything about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e894	After this fall I do not know if there is anyone who I do not think would dare take a confrontation with private kindergartens. I guess they're the ones I've been arguing most about. What's the point here is that it's a very complex sector with very different types of actors, which also have very different profits. We have some people who have good margins and run with profits, but then we also have a very large part of the sector that has very few margins, and that also runs with deficits. We have to make a code that takes account of this complexity. What I'm very concerned about is that we're creating a code that also further disputes the small players, that they're being subjected to even more buying-in than they are today. Also looking at how we can actually strengthen the economy of some of the kindergartens that are the weakest today, I think is important. It's also the way that when we make legislation that's a little bit like that to reduce the profits of some of the big ones, we also make it harder for some of the small ones, who may have run ideally for many years, to make profits that they might have saved up to for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e903	The President would like to congratulate the Council of State on its own behalf and on behalf of the Grand Duchy on a very big and important birthday today!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e908	Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e916	The question is as follows: ‘The Mayor of More and Romesdal has carried out a further centralisation as he recently reduced the number of geographical units from four to two. [[GDEs]] The government has received an evaluation of the so-called near-police reform in 2022. Why do the state councils of police officers once again centralise only a few years after the previous centralisation and one year before the reform is to be evaluated, and how should the police of South Sunnmare and in Romesdal be strengthened when they have now lost their own geographical unit?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e925	It is the police chief’s responsibility and duty to assess how best to use resources in his district, and to make the necessary measures, including organisational ones. This must, of course, be done within the limits of the powers conferred. Of course, work must also follow the requirements and guidelines that apply, including: for involvement. The local structure of police districts shall facilitate a close operational and visible police force with the capacity to prevent, investigate and prosecute criminal acts. A key prerequisite for the success of police reform has been to make better use of police resources. Then we can free up both time and resources, so that the police can be more accessible and present in the neighbourhood. The geographical holdings, the GDEs, have the overall responsibility for managing and coordinating resources at the designated service locations. They have a special responsibility for the administrative functions of the departments. The head of the holding is responsible for the budget, performance and staffing of the holding. Therefore, the reduction from four to two GDEs does not entail any change in the number of service units, i.e. county and police districts, or service stations, county offices and police stations. Nor have other organisational changes been made downwards in the levels of the police district, nor have they shifted or abandoned jobs. Police interaction with municipalities or other partners continues as before. The Police Directorate reports that More and Romesdal police districts now employ more than a hundred people than a few years ago. The prosecution and investigation pages have also been strengthened. The same is true of the operational area. The police district has been given specialist departments as a section for digital police work and special functions such as radicalisation contacts. It has contributed to professionalising work in the district. The police contact system and police council work are constantly developing. As the representative of Klinge knows, police contact is the daily link with the municipalities and is an adviser in the crime prevention work. In the largest cities, there are police contacts in all positions. The changes shall contribute to better capacity utilisation and increased local flexibility to solve tasks. The head of the geographical holdings thus has more resources available. It benefits all the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e942	We still believe that this centralisation should lead to fantastic results, but the centralization that has already taken place, through the so-called near-police reform, has neither led to more visible police in the form of more patrols nor to a sufficiently professionally robust environment in important crime areas, nor to data crime, which the government has placed very much emphasis on itself. This pointed out the Riksrevision in a report that came late yesterday. In areas by region where the changing Solberg governments have promised much and boasted at least the same amount, the promised results have not come. One might conclude that if the near - police reform had been a vaccine, it would never have been approved. So when centralisation over several years has proved to be ineffective, is there any need for more centralisation in terms of fewer geographical units of operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e949	I want to say that if the Central Party had been in government and let the police go as they did in 2011, it would have been dramatic. But we're lucky to make changes. The interesting thing about capacity surveys is that the persistent claim of the Centre Party that there is less presence, less bet on everyday crime and less investment in districts turns out to be wrong. They have succeeded both in strengthening the police, in building strong community units, and in strengthening their presence. With regard to the GDEs, I have problems understanding what the representative means by centralisation. I have explained that people are not being moved, that offices are not being moved, but that organizations are being organised internally in the district. And the GDEs are very different organized in the different districts. It's e.g. so Finnmark has one GDE, while Troms has five. So this is it up to the different districts to evaluate, based on what's best for them. But it's not about centralization.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e958	If the police had continued in the same way as in 2011 in the case of organisation, a real near-police would have many places in the country. One would have the same number of patrols as one has today, because it hasn't come into place any more after the reform. So it's important to point out that we and the Right have a very, very different sense of reality. In 2014–2019, the police and the cannon seat spent 5.4 billion. kr on consultants. The government has not shown any visible signs of seriousness in the growth of such a use. But, fortunately, they state that the future strengthening of the police will go to the geographical units in the future. The problem is that several of these are now being deleted. They'll be cut down. I would first like to make it clear that it is not certain that it was in 2011 the number of patrols was as it is today, but compared to before the reform and now there has been no increase. My question is, how will the Council of State ensure that the geographical units of operation are strengthened while agreeing to such units being brought down now? Does she not understand that even more centralisation is the opposite of strengthening the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e969	I realize you don't listen to what I'm saying. So it's not moved on people, it's not closed; it's reorganized into larger farms without laying down places of employment. So you might have had the same number of patrols. You had several places of service with the Center Party. But there had been fewer policemen. There had been no joint analysis units, joint prevention units, joint investigation units – joint units that could strengthen the police in the districts. They had not had large, strong operating centres, which we got a very clear warning about was absolutely necessary. So there's a lot of stuff you wouldn't have had. What we now have is a police force that is stronger than ever, that is present, and that takes crime seriously, both in the districts and in the cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e987	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e995	‘Before Christmas, police officers in East Police District provided an alert to their own management. Trustees of the East Police District Police Lawyers stated to the NRK: ‘This is a consequence of the much-discussed near-police reform’. What concrete action is to be taken in the East Police District to avoid police lawyers crying at work because of overwork and thousands of citizens being put on hold while their affairs are waiting for the police?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e1002	I, the Council of State, shall not comment on the specific issue raised in the notice. It shall be treated in accordance with the procedures of the establishment and a thorough examination of the alert shall be carried out. The Directorate of Police reports that, in addition, the State Attorney's Office has launched an inspection in East police districts for, among others, to look at criminal proceedings, organisation and resource setting. This parallel work will result in two reports that are expected to be available in March. These could be the basis for any action. Moreover, I would like to point out that the government has considerably strengthened the police and officers' seat. It also applies to the entire criminal procedure and includes the prosecution lawyers. That's 30 pst. more prosecutors now than in 2013, and each prosecutor has fewer cases to deal with than before. The purpose of the increased appropriations has just been to ensure that employees have a sound working environment and that the citizens are to be dealt with within a reasonable period of time. East police districts alone have had an increase of 52 p.m. in the case of public prosecutors.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e1013	The Council of State refers to the notice that it is a separate matter and that the government has increased the appropriations for the police, inter alia. with 52 pst. in the East Police District. In November, there were 6,000 untreated cases in Eastern police districts. Of them, very many had been lying over three months. 1 100 of them had been over 12 months, and the chief authority called it alarming. One thing is the workload and pressure the police lawyers are now in, with a three- to twelve-month lag, and I think it could pose a threat to legal certainty and trust in the police. What is the status of untreated cases in the East Police District now? Does the Council of State recognise that this is a threat to legal certainty, and what does the Council of State want to do to address this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e1018	I have to correct: I didn't talk about 52 pst. budget increase to East Police District in general. I was talking about the prosecution page alone. In general, prosecutors in Norway have increased by 30 pst. East police district alone has received 52 pst. That means more lawyers. It means fewer things on every lawyer. In the case of the specific situation in the East, there is an alert for treatment, and it is such that the State Attorney's Office has started an inspection. In respect of those processes, I do not want to comment on the situation in Eastern police districts in particular, except to say in general that the balances have fallen. That's very good. It is important primarily for victims of crime, but of course also for those who are accused. So this has been a conscious and clear bet by the government. So we're going to keep going. We've not only strengthened the prosecution lawyers in the police, but we've strengthened the state attorney's office. We've strengthened the courts with jurisprudence, so that the whole chain of criminal cases has been strengthened in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e1025	I understand that there is no comment on an alert, but the cases described in the East Police District are somewhat more general. Similar messages come from elsewhere in the country, for example: in Nordland. According to the Chief Trust Committee, the situation is a consequence of the government's so-called near-police reform with the subsequent flight of competences, where the police's finest people disappear from the scene. The distance to management with several additional points introduced increases frustration downwards. The proximity of investigators disappears, and new tasks introduced after the reform burden police lawyers. Can a solution for police lawyers be to establish a separate budget line for the prosecution unit, and is there a solution that the Minister of Justice is considering?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e1030	I'm taking seriously the tapes I get from the police lawyers. I have regular meetings with the police organizations, but I am not familiar with the description that everything that is bad and difficult is due to the police reform. On the contrary, I have now been to all the police districts. I've been talking to patrollings. I've been talking to the lawyers. I've been talking to leaders and middle managers. I have not met one against the police reform, not one, but what is said is that the police reform can be further strengthened. It's about the geographical units, and it's about the police lawyers. Then the police lawyers wanted a separate post on the state budget. We have said that we should at least make the bets on the police visible, because it is obvious that the representative and some others do not know how much the reinforcement has been in recent years. We want to make that clear, and that is why we are now working on changes in the budget, so that you can clearly see what efforts are being made on the police lawyers across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e1040	‘The agreement with the contractor company Skanska on the construction of a new hospital in the Heelde in More and Romesdal has been cancelled. Can the Council of State explain the background to this dramatic decision and the consequences it will have for the Stortingen decision on the financing of the hospital?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e1047	The agreement with Skanska on the construction of a new hospital at Hellet in More and Romesdal was cancelled as there was no agreement on the price for the expansion. I know that there have been many laps to reach agreement with Skanska. This is a priority project in Health Mid-Norway, and delays in the project were not desired. Before the cancellation, calculations based on the solutions selected in the project were carried out, with the assistance of external parties, against experience data from construction projects in Norway. The calculations were far below Skanska's price. In addition, a separate benchmark was made with other hospital projects. On the basis of these reviews, the Board of Health More and Romesdal concluded that the offer from Skanska was significantly above what one could expect. The size decided on a total loan framework of 3.55 billion. kr in 2018-kroner for new hospital in Nordmøre and Romsdal in the state budget for 2018. This loan framework is fixed. The project shall be realised. At the same time, there may be a shift in annual loan payments, depending on the progress of the project. The board of Health Møre and Romesdal recommended in their board meeting on 21 January that Health Mid-Norway take into account increasing the cost framework of the project. Increased costs in the project also involve an increased level of self-financing in the project. Health Møre and Romsdal have asked Health Mid-Norway for a regional loan to deal with this. This will be discussed at the board meeting in Health Mid-Norway tomorrow, 4 February. From the case papers of the Governing Board meeting, it appears that the region has enough liquidity to handle this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e1054	This is interesting. What the Council of State says is that the framework that the Stortinge has granted is solid. It was a frame that was not enough. It was a framework that the consultant company, Metier, already pointed out too little in the context of the 2018 termination of the competition. It was a framework that proved too small at the conclusion of the contract with Skanska in October 2019. And then the health care company had detailed insight into the numbers. Is it now that the extra cost, which we don't know how large, is to be covered by Health Mid-Norway and Health Moor and Romesdal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e1061	I do not agree with the description that this framework is not sufficient. The health region itself is responsible for assessing the framework they need for this type of investment project. They are quality assured, and the government is promoting them for Stortinget. This applies to all construction projects in the hospital sector, and it is important to maintain that health regions must relate to the framework they have applied for and must manage the projects within these frameworks. The fact that a tender implies that the supplier of a tender requires a higher price than that acceptable to the health care provider after comparison with others, I believe that the health care provider has just financial management of its development projects. It may be what distinguishes the hospital sector from some other state sectors in Norway, that one manages to implement the construction projects within the agreed framework and often within the timetables underlying the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e1068	This is really special. The Council of State says that he disagrees with my description, when the Council of State says that the framework set by the Stortinget is too small, so that one must receive additional funding from both Health Mid-Norway and Health Møre and Romesdal to realise the project according to the plans. I ask the Council to clarify whether it is a correct description or not. Otherwise, we learned something important in connection with the fact that the group manager in Skanska, Ståle Red, went out in Tidens Krån on January 20th this year and said that Skanska made a bid on December 8th, 3.215 billion. kr. Project manager Johan Arnt Vatnan had an undertaking on 18 December of 3 150 billion. So the difference is $65 million. kr. Can the Council confirm that it was the figures that stood by before the tender was cancelled?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e1077	No, I can't. I don't have any insight into these numbers. It is the government of Health More and Romesdal that has. It is those who assess this, who assess the risks in the projects and who are responsible for implementing the projects within the framework on which they are based. It is absolutely right that Health Møre and Romesdal have asked Health Mid-Norway for a regional loan in this context. It's the government in Health Mid-Norway that has to deal with. What I understood was the representative's question, was whether the government loan framework was sufficient for this project, and the government loan framework is firm. The region can complement it if they feel that they have the economy for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e1087	«Health Møre and Romsdal have cancelled the contract with the entrepreneur company Skanska because the costs were too high in relation to the functions that the health company would have to implement in the new building on Health. When did the Council of State become aware that there was a great distance between the adopted cost framework of the Storting and Skanska’s economic offer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e1094	Let me make it clear that there is a complete consensus on the functions and content of the new emergency hospital in Northern Ireland and Romesdal. Health Mid-Norway has announced that there is now a good project, where both users and employees have contributed. The project has been evaluated in relation to the Eastfold project. The evaluation shows that the project is well dimensioned. Therefore, the disagreement with Skanska is not about the functions to be implemented, but about the amount to be allocated to Skanska to build what is planned. Skanska's offer was far above what could be expected. The ministry was notified in advance when the board of Health More and Romesdal authorised the Executive Director to sign the notice of cancellation of the agreement at the meeting on 9 December. Skanska was then given a final deadline to make a final offer. I was also previously known that there was a difficult process, and that there were challenges in the project. The board of Health Møre and Romesdal recommended in the board meeting on 21 January that Health Mid-Norway take into account the increased cost of a new hospital in North Moravia and Romesdal. The increased cost framework for the project will be discussed in the Management Board meeting in Health Mid-Norway tomorrow, 4 February. I would also like to add that Health More and Romesdal, in order to ensure progress in the project, have maintained the agreement with Skanska on the preparatory work on hospital premises. These works started on 14 December and involve, inter alia: the establishment of parking spaces, construction roads and infrastructure and the preparation of office and civil engineering rigs. The size does not adopt a cost framework for hospital projects. Health regions shall provide good specialist health services where hospital buildings and equipment are a necessary part. Health regions are responsible for the prioritisation, planning and adoption of their investments. For investment projects in excess of 500 million. Health regions may apply for a loan from the Stortinget based on a quality-guaranteed concept report. The Stortinget adopted a loan framework for a new hospital in Nordmøre and Romsdal in 2018 at 3.55 billion. 2018-kroner. This loan framework is fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e1109	The Council of State clearly states that the State loan scheme is permanent. I also don't see any criticism from the Council of State that she was too little. The Central Party then stated, in the 2018 state budget, that we had a strong concern that the Stortinget gave a loan framework and clear signal to a construction project that had insecure economic viability, and fear that this could go beyond patient treatment and preparedness in the healthcare business. Unfortunately, we have got it right. We even suggest that the government come back to Stortinget with a plan for what functions the new hospital should have, and how the new building could be realized without going beyond patient treatment. Now we're in a situation where no one knows what the final price tag on the building will be. Does the Council of State mean that this is a serious and good way to build large, new hospitals in Norway, when no one knows what the final price tag on the building will be?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e1114	This is how this is done, which is the same for all hospital buildings in Norway. If the Central Party takes advantage of a policy where the Stortingen deals with the cost framework and also takes responsibility for overshootings in the construction projects, I am reasonably sure that the fasitium of the Center Party's policy will be that hospital buildings in Norway will experience the same slippages both in cost frameworks and exceedances that unfortunately characterise a good number of other state building projects built according to that model. The long-term consequence of this will be that fewer new hospitals will be built in Norway, and the queue of hospital buildings will be as long as we see that the queue of some other state buildings is – and not the situation that we have had in the last ten to twenty years, namely that hospital construction projects stick to the framework given are implemented in line with the readiness to build the projects and that there are no long queues of non-implemented projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e1119	Governments wonder what can be the result of the Central Party's hospital policy, but we know the outcome of the government's hospital policy, and that is that all new hospitals are consistently being built too small. It is a result of today's way of financing new hospitals. In the fall, Dagens Medisin had an article that included four hospital projects that had been collected cut to 5.2 billion dollars. kr and over 72000 m 2. Eastfold was named, which was cut with 10,000 m 2, Aarhus with 30,000 m 2 and new Drammen and Hammerfest, which are under construction, shall be cut with 28 000 m 2 and 4 200 m 2 respectively. This is a policy for new hospitals that go beyond patient treatment. One must also finance this by cutting the operational budget, and it goes beyond preparedness and other important patient services. Does the Council of State stand by today's system to finance hospitals, when we look at the results for More and Romesdal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e1141	Today’s way of financing hospital construction has been a great pleasure for Norwegian patients. This means that new hospital buildings have now been realized or realized from the Kirkenes in the north to the South in the south. Along the whole coast, along our entire country, there is a significant building in the hospital sector, precisely because there is a financing model that allows you to build hospitals when necessary, and you have an economy for it, and you have secured the progress of these projects. It's not right, as the representative tries to create the impression, that because in a project phase, construction starts with more than what you can do, and in collaboration with employees and with local environments, you have to come up with buildings that are realistic to realize, it's about cutting in hospital buildings, and there's an optimal size of a building that is what you're starting from. No, these are absolutely necessary projects for hospitals to be built in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e1157	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e1171	This question has been withdrawn. Case No. 2 is thus processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-03.ana.ud135e1187	There is no record available. This way, today's maps are processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
