ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e30	The representatives Gro-Anita Mykjåland and Even Eriksen, who have been on leave, have again taken up seats. The requested alternate of Sogn and Fjordane, Ole-Ansger Nepomuk Martini, now takes the seat. From the Workers' Group there is an application for welfare leave from the representative of Torstein Tvedt Solberg from 6 to 17 December. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Marte Eide Klovning, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e63	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e68	On behalf of the representatives of Olaug Vervik Bollestad, Dag-Inge Ulstein and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative that the Stortinget should receive the evaluation of the decision-making forum for new methods for consideration. On behalf of the representatives of Olaug Vervik Bollestad, Dag-Inge Ulstein and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to introduce a VAT exemption for goods that are granted for charitable purposes, in order to reduce the throwing and destruction of usable goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e75	The representative of Sveinung Rotevatn will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e80	On behalf of the representatives of Guri Melby, Ingvild Wetrhus Thorsvik and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to freeze the EEA payments to the Polish State.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e85	The representative, Sofie Marhaug, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e90	On behalf of Red and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to stop planned increases in electricity charges, and I ask that the proposal be dealt with urgently in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure (c).
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e95	The representative, Mr Almeland, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e101	On behalf of the representative Guri Melby and myself, I would like to make a proposal on diplomatic boycott of major sporting events organized in authoritarian states.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e106	The representative, Mr Stokkebø, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e111	On behalf of the representatives of Henrik Asheim, Anna Molberg, Margret Hagerup, Dag-Inge Ulstein, Sveinung Rotevatn, Abid Raja and myself – and on the occasion of the UN Day for Disabled People tomorrow – I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on a stepping up plan for several permanent job placements, VTA.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e116	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e123	The President will propose the election of the President-in-Office of the European Parliament today. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President proposes Heidi Greni. – Other proposals are not available, and Heidi Greni is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e159	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: the allocated speaking time shall be limited to 3 hours and 15 minutes, excluding lines and 3 minutes. The number is divided into groups: the working party 50 minutes, the right 40 minutes, the centre 30 minutes, the progress party 20 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, the Red 10 minutes, the Left 10 minutes, the Green 10 minutes and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes. Furthermore, in the course of the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from the main speakers of the party groups, parliamentary leaders and members of the government. In addition, those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e170	On behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, I would like to start by thanking SV for tough, but constructive negotiations on next year's government budget. As the rapporteur for the financial position, I would like to thank a patient finance committee and not least the committee secretariat for their cooperation with this matter. The election of 13 September gave us a new majority – a majority that has immediately given a new political course. The new majority, which is not dependent on the Right, is already in the process of cleaning up the labour market. The new majority, which is not dependent on the Progress Party, today adopts strong measures to cut greenhouse gas emissions. The new majority, jointly engaged in responsible economic policies, are adopting today a budget that strengthens well-being without increasing the use of oil money. The new majority today adopts a budget that is greener and more redistributive than any other budget the size has adopted over many, many years. The budget harvest of the year began with the delivery by the outgoing Solberg Government of its draft budget for 2022 on 12 October. That proposal did not have a majority and many of the proposals, particularly in the field of climate policy, would not survive the budget harvest of the Stortinget with the Progress Party. In addition, the draft budget from the Right was marked by unsocial cuts, weak local economy and extra tax cuts to the richest. Two days later, on 14 October, the new Workers' Party – Centre Party government joined, and the exchange rate conversion was in progress. In the government's supplementary budget proposal on 8 November, there was a strongly strengthened municipal economy, a more redistributive tax system, the security of the AAP recipients and a more active industrial policy to cut emissions and create jobs. The Working Party, the Centre Party and SV then continued the budgetary work in Stortinget. It has been tough, but constructive negotiations. The three batches that are behind today's budget majority agree to reduce differences, enhance the well-being of the country as a whole and cut greenhouse gas emissions. The budget will help to reduce differences, including: through the tax havens taken. The Labour Party opted for ordinary people to get lower taxes, while they had to pay more. In this budget, we deliver on it. About 82 pst. is taxed at or below next year compared to this year. At the same time, the richest have to pay more. We're introducing a new step in the wealth tax on assets over 20 million. kr, the stock discount is reduced, the dividend tax is increased. It is definitely a new course, including in fiscal policy. We also see that when well-being is strengthened. Municipalities and counties get a real growth of 4.5 billion. kr in free income. It means more well-being across the country, better care for the elderly, more education at school and quality at kindergartens. The cut of resource-required services from the Right-Registration is reversed. In addition, there will be free core time in the SFO for first-graders from the next school year. It's a powerful welfare promise we haven't seen the husband do in many years. What we have seen in the last few years, on the other hand, is a series of unsocial cuts – petty, unsocial cuts for the disabled, unemployed and children – all in order to finance large tax cuts for them with the most. Now we're going to turn this up. Holiday pay will be paid for the unemployed and permitted. This year's system continues, which ensures that tens of thousands of people who have been hit hardest during the crisis do not stay without money on vacation, and we are going to create a new permanent code of profit from 2022. Those who are unable to work a little, should not have a cut-off of the labour income from the first penny. Those who receive redundancy benefits will no longer risk ending up on social assistance because Nav has not been able to clear them up quickly enough. What ensures that we have a comprehensive welfare state in the future is that we get more jobs. Work for everyone is job number one, and it is already shown again in the first budgetary decision by a new majority. We increase the allocation of labour market measures, so that more people who are outside the labour market get qualification and help to get to work. We are strengthening our efforts towards young people – the number of young people who have doubled on the solberg government watch. Therefore, we provide increased resources for follow-up and labour-oriented actions. The same is important in the case of Nav, which we sustainably strengthen in the budget. There are still many people who are out of work and who need individual and adapted follow-up. I think everyone in this room is concerned about and concerned about the high power prices. For many, the high prices make it difficult to get the ends to meet, and that everyday life becomes more difficult. This government is to be a government for ordinary people. Therefore, it was important for us to follow up the situation as soon as we took the government offices, and we have proposed targeted measures: In November, housing beneficiaries received an additional payment, which helps them with low incomes to pay the electricity bill. In the budget adopted today, the electricity charge is reduced by 48 pst. in the winter months, and 9 pst. the rest of the year. There are now several measures to remedy the situation, a situation I want to clarify that today's government has inherited from the Right-Registration before us. People's ability to serve high electricity prices, as we see now, is also closely linked to other measures in the budget. Where the bourgeois majority for eight years has given them huge tax cuts with the most, while they have increased the nursery price and increased the electricity tax, we are now moving in the opposite direction. People with normal and low incomes get lower taxes. The electricity charge is lowered, the nursery prices are cut heavily, the SFO is free of charge for the first class from the fall, holiday pay is guaranteed, the union allowance is increased, the commuting allowance is improved – I could stand for a long time and list measures that improve the economy for ordinary people. It's through the budgets we show who we're for. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV clearly show in the budget unit that we exist for those who were hit by the U-social cut – the unemployed and those who have lost their holiday money, families who are now getting reduced costs for kindergarten and SFO, those who need the community from the municipality or hospital. And we are for our children and grandchildren, who are going to take over a living earth. The budget adopted today is, for me, without a doubt the greenest budget ever adopted by the Stortinget. We cut emissions in Norway next year and in the longer term. An important step is the CO2 tax, which is backed by a large majority. In addition, changes in car taxes, zero-emission cars will be reinforced and the CO2 tax on the base will increase. And perhaps so important for future emission cuts is the active business policy. In the Labour Party, we have a basic idea that we get the most in common, and we have to apply that for a decade when industrial policy is to cut emissions and climate policy creates jobs. That is why we have a large-scale commitment through Enova, which is going to go to electric car speeders, green technology development and an increase in household activity. We are increasing climate action together with industry, agriculture and the local community sector through climate change, the environmental technology system, green shipping, hydrogenation and the creation of Bionova – to name a few. This year's election was about the direction our society would take. It gave a strong majority for a new course. A new policy course is of course about all the new things we're going to do, but it's also about taking care of some of the finest things in Norway – the high trust between us, strong communities, small differences, vibrant cities and living settlements. The Right-Registration policy has given us increased differences and increased centralisation. Now we're going to shift power and opportunities to ordinary people through safe work to everyone and good welfare services across the country. This is how we prepare Norway to tackle the big problems. The best thing about our country is that people are on the big social level. People set up the community when the community sets up for them. I'll bring this up with the loose proposals No. 277 and 278, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV to replace the proposal for Decision I, and I also refer to proposal No. 284 on behalf of the same lots.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e204	The representative Eigil Knutsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e211	In his statement, the representative spoke about the situation of those who now have very high electricity bills, and it is good to hear that a proposal is now being made – which I have not seen – about measures. But what the representative also did was to clarify that the situation we are now in – at high power prices – is a situation inherited from the Solberg government. What I'm asking is: What are the things in energy and power policy that have been implemented in recent years, the Labour Party disagrees? Is that the great expansion of renewable energy? Is this the big expansion of the networks we've had? Is there the implementation of agreements concluded by the old red-green government on several foreign relations with Europe? Or is that the connection to the third energy market package and the Acer? It would have been nice if it had been deepened.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e216	Thank you for the questions. It is a highly inherited situation when there has been another political majority for eight years, where the Progress Party has been sitting with the oil and energy minister for most of the time, and where the Right, with the representative Tina Bru, has been sitting at the end. There have been several rounds in Stortinget over the last eight years where you have discussed the need for more power and the fear that there may be strong fluctuations in the electricity price. The Labour Party has in Stortinget for the last eight years, for example: have been a driver to speed up the upgrading of the hydroelectric power stations we have, and to put in place a new tax system that will make it more profitable. It took a long time to get it done. The power grid expansion, which Bru boasts about, is also a long way off, and we have a lot of lag to get the power out where it's needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e223	I don't remember that the Workers' Party has made any proposals of importance that would make the current price as it is now, would be different if they had managed the previous eight years. So I think this is a strange way of describing the situation we're in now, which is completely extraordinary. What I also want to ask the representative is a proposal that has now been promoted. We know that the Labour Party's line is always that welfare offers should be universal and common as far as possible. This line is very clear in the draft budget and in the conciliation. For example, the maximum price is lowered for everyone, everyone will have free core time in the SFO, everyone in Norway will get 10 cents less in electricity in January, February and March. The price tag of this is several billion dollars. The working party spends a lot of money giving people very little money, so little that most people don't really notice it. Will the proposal you are now promoting be targeted at those who need it the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e232	I think one must be a member of the Right to claim that 3,000 kroner lower kindergarten price will not be marked by people, or that the most severe cut in the electricity charge since the 1990s – one must go back to then to find an equal low electricity charge that one gets now this winter – will not be noticed by people. We have a basic idea in the Workers' Party – in so far as also in the other red-green parties – that well-being should be universal. There is a lot more in line with the taskbar. It's also about strengthening the economy of ordinary people. Right-wing policies have been that everyone has had more expensive kindergartens, and that the large amount of money – e.g. in fiscal policy – has gone to the richest. Now we're going to turn it upside down. The richest have to pay a little more tax. Ordinary people get lower income taxes, cheaper kindergartens and cheaper SFOs. This is a political direction in which we are proud to take the country through this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e239	The income from record animal flows now flows — literally — into both state, municipalities and county municipalities that own power companies. Earlier in the fall, Finance Minister Slagsvold Vedum claimed that there is no miracle cure for lower power prices. In the opinion of the Progress Party, there is a lack of political will and action. It seems clear that neither the Workers' Party nor the Centre's party will support the proposal of the Progress Party to remove the electricity charge and VAT on electricity consumption, which are two measures that would have an immediate effect. We also know that approx. 90 pst. of the production capacity is owned by country, county or municipality. The Labour Party and the Central Party have the rapporteur in three out of four municipalities, and they rule almost all municipalities, with one exception. Then my question is: Would the representative Knutsen at least encourage self-employed workers' party-driven power municipalities – also central party-driven – to use these additional revenues to help people with extreme power bills?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e248	I am the head of the Financial Committee of the United Kingdom and have more than enough to land a budget majority here in the United Kingdom – and thrives well on it – and do not interfere with what the Labour Party's local politicians are doing. But it's interesting to hear the Progress Party, the party that has been sitting with the Minister of Oil and Energy and the Minister of Finance for nearly seven of the last eight years, talking about electricity prices. They have increased the electricity charges and have not taken sufficient steps to prevent us from getting into the situation we are today. And once they come in opposition, they suggest things that go completely the opposite of what they mean when they're in position. With the Advance Party in government, the fees increased by 6 billion. kr, including the electricity charge. The big money went to tax cuts to them most. We're now turning that direction. The most powerful cut in the electricity charge – i.e. in level – since the 1990s comes now in winter. It's going to help people, and we're also working on more measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e253	I would like to thank the representative for two long and constructive negotiating weeks. While we were in negotiations, there was a new report from the SSB that shows that inequalities in Norway are far greater than what we believed, and that inequality growth is also greater. This is due to the retained profits of the companies, which result in the richest paying in practice a lower tax rate on their income than most people do. The Norwegian tax system is, in effect, regressive at the top. We have agreed in the budget unit to bring ownership income more into official inequality statistics, so that we can better make this visible. What will the government now do to ensure that the tax system is also progressive in Norway at the top of the richest?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e261	I would like to thank the representative Kaski for both a good question and for two intensive weeks here in Stortinget, which has produced a very good result for people in Norway. I believe that in the light of all the reports on inequality, which have so far come through the last year – but also the last weeks – we must all, in all political parties, think again and think carefully about how, among other things. the tax system, welfare system and labour policy shall be designed to make the system more redistributive. One of the things the government has seen on the Hurdal platform is that we should explore the scope of adaptations to the shareholder model and the exemption method and take action to avoid the unintended adjustments. The action model and the exemption method are there for a reason, but it has some consequences that we need to look closely at to make the system redistributive.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e270	Unfortunately, in addition to peaceing too many parts of the tax policy of the right government, the government also peacees the ABE reform for the coming years and continues the cut of 1.9 billion. kr. I heard the representative Knutsen so nicely say that people stand up for the community when the community stands up for them, and then I wonder if Knutsen intends to stand up for all those who work in the hospitals and at our Nav offices, who offer public services to the welfare state, and whether he wants to move on to reverse the ABE cuts in the coming budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e275	Thank you for a good question. With regard to the tax profile in this budget, I am very clear that there has never been a more redistributive budgetary decision from one year to another than the Great Britain is doing today. The tax system becomes much more redistributive from 1 January 2022. With regard to the ABE cuts, the government has said that we want to run the public sector differently from that. There are 700-800 budget lines that need to be adapted to reverse the ABE reform, but we are beginning in this budget, among others. by strengthening the hospital economy and by strengthening Nav permanently, not only temporarily, as the Solberg government proposed. So we've taken action, and we're going to take action to control the public sector more trust-based and in a better way than what's been done in the last eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e286	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e291	The last thing the right did in government was to put forward a budget, along with the Left and Christian People's Party, which is addressing the challenges Norway is facing. We want to make it possible for people to live a safe, good life in the cities, in the countryside and along the coast. We do that by ensuring that the private sector can create more jobs, by giving people and businesses the skills they need, so that we can include more in the workplace, and by speeding up the transition towards a green society. Through cooperation, trust and action, we have managed the slow economic downtime since World War II, and the Norwegian economy is now out of crisis, although some industries are still affected and the pandemic is not yet over. In 2022, however, it seems that the activity will be high and the job opportunities will be good. The budget we submitted provides for green conversion, for cutting our greenhouse gas emissions, and not least for growth. However, the budgetary agreement shows that the government and the Swedish government have no response to the major challenges facing Norway. They lack answers on how to continue to get more people to complete the school when they cut knowledge to give priority to primary schools. They lack answers on how to create private jobs when companies receive tax returns for Christmas. And they lack answers on how to cut the greenhouse gas emissions they're saying they're going to cut. We knew that it would be SV's task to set direction on the budget. They've dragged the government to the left, but they haven't been able to define a clear project. The budget agreement is marked by expensive ideas and poor solutions for the country. It's going to be more expensive to create jobs, the school's knowledge pot has become a balancing post, and rather than giving a real boost to those who need it, the government and the Swedish government choose to lubricate thinly and give a little to everyone. If the budget of the Solberg Government had been adopted, it would have meant significant tax havens for those who serve at least. The budgetary agreement, on the other hand, means a tax consolidation for many. Lecturers, conductors and midwives now have to pay top taxes. I don't think they're ordinary people, as the Workers' Party defines it. At the same time, the tax is increased on jobs, and it will now be more expensive to operate a shop in Norway if the owner is Norwegian. Norwegian business has just been through a crisis. Large parts are on their legs again, fortunately, but some industries and some enterprises are still struggling. So if you want more and more jobs to be created, if you want a green shift, and if you want more value creation, it's kind of strange that the government's first act is to send businesses out of the crisis a tax bill of 10 billion. kr. They simply have no ambition to make it easier to create something in Norway. On behalf of the state, however, they have great ambitions. But I haven't noticed any calls from the business community, those who run hydrogen, for example, that what they lack and want is that the state should go more on the road through more state ownership or its own companies. On the contrary, what they want is a clear intention to cut emissions and good support schemes that relieve risks – precisely what is policy to the Right. Right in government, priority was given to knowledge in school. Our ambition was that 90 pst. by 2030. Therefore, our budget for 2022 contains a further investment in the knowledge school. Over our time in government, the dropout in school has gone down. Several complete, and more take the letter. But it doesn't come of itself. It comes from a combination of small and large measures to ensure that students learn more. And, of course, politics is priorities. On the right, an extra hour of natural science was given priority to secondary school students because lack of basics in real science is a major reason why students later drop out of high school. We prioritised the teacher-specialist system. It's a new career path for teachers, which provides depression for them and extra follow-up for the students. Several teacher specialists are important too early to catch up with students who are struggling. After the pandemic, many students are left with a lack of knowledge. They did not receive the training they should have had. That's why we prioritised a raise for those who hang out and struggle with knowledge gaps that the pandemic has created. This is particularly important for low-skilled students. These measures are now to be cut by the government and SV, who prefer to spend billions of money on ensuring that the number of schools in the country is constant. Bigger, Vedum and Lyssbaken choose to spend the large amount of money that municipalities do not put down schools, rather than the contents of the school, rather than that students should learn more at school, and rather than that fewer should fall away. The budget presented by the Right, Left and Christian People's Party is a budget where the students are winners. Unfortunately, the majority will vote in favour of a budget where the most important part of the school is no longer the student. The budget that the previous government promoted in the autumn was the greenest budget in Norwegian history. The government of Solberg has shown that economic growth is possible while we cut emissions and reach our climate targets. I'm really proud of that. In our budget, we continued an offensive effort on new green jobs through an active industrial policy that supports businesses that want to invest. Over our years in government, we have set up a new green industry. We've lifted sea winds, we've raised hydrogen, and we've taken action to get the power to where it's needed when new industry will establish. We need all of this in the transition our country is going through. The government and SV say they now have a budget that cuts more greenhouse gases than the Solberg government's proposals. It is a bit difficult to see when SV agrees to hollow out the effect of CO 2 - the fee at a lower user charge. At the same time, they admit that this is impossible to figure out. But SV has the opportunity to vote in favour of a civil draft budget with clear, measurable greenhouse gas cuts for next year. Instead, they choose to support a budget where the climate profile is more unclear compared to the Solberg government budget. Over eight years, the Right and the other bourgeois parties chose to give priority to those who need the most. For example, we chose to make kindergarten more accessible to families with low incomes. Therefore, we introduced free core time, reduced parental pay and a maximum of how much of the income of a family can go to kindergarten expenses. It's because the Right believes that the State shouldn't be too much for everyone, but it should be a lot for those who need it the most. That's why we want to give more to the unemployed than to the lawyer, and we want to give more to the sick person than to the director. Rather, the government and the Swedish Government want new arrangements to be smeared thinly, and everyone should get exactly the same thing. The same kind of priority is being given when we present proposals here today, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, on adjustments and changes to the budget we presented in October. Many people around the country are now in a very difficult situation because of the sky-high power prices. For quite a few, this winter's electricity bills can crack the household budgets. No one should have to put their children in cold rooms in the evening, and no one should feel that they can't make a hot dinner or take a shower because they can't afford to pay the electricity bill that comes after. Therefore, we propose to use the extraordinary dividend from Statkraft for a power package targeted at the households hit hardest by increased electricity prices. A flat cut in the electricity charge is too little targeted at those with low incomes and the need for financial assistance. We also believe that it is unreasonable to use an extraordinarily high yield from State power to meet electoral commitments in completely different areas — election vows that will in addition involve sustained expenditure increases on government budgets in the years to come. This means, in practice, increasing the use of oil money or increasing taxes in the coming years. The Right Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party suggest that those who have paid over the electricity bill for the large dividend state can now withdraw from Statkraft, get the money back. It must be targeted, and those with best advice do not need this help. The scheme should therefore limit the aid to those with the lowest household income and be granted on the basis of the number of persons in the household. For a normal family with two children with a total income of less than 1,2 million. kr means NOK 3000 in support this winter. At the same time, we will support outlying students and students with a grant of NOK 1000 extra. The country has a new government, which, through conciliation with the UK in the UK, receives a majority in its budget. Unfortunately, the draft budget does not respond to the major challenges facing Norway. Although I don't think it's particularly likely, the majority, if they want to, can do just that. They can vote in favour of our draft budget and with it provide the country with a budget to ensure that we cut emissions, facilitate companies to create new green jobs and gain the skills they need so that we can include more people in the world of work, and – not least – that prioritise knowledge and learners. I bring up the proposals from the Right, Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e332	The representative Tina Bru then addressed the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e339	We've already discussed it today, but we're still getting new reports saying that the inequality has increased in Norway in recent years. Last week the new reports came. In view of this, it is interesting to hear the reflections of the largest opposition party, whether there is a willingness to rethink the policy of redistribution. After all, the right-hand choice was to propose – when they had the opportunity – to increase and finally to give full stock discounts in the taxes on wealth, i.e. to property within, among others. shares and commercial real estate shall be tax-free. In the past, a full stock discount has been calculated to approximately 20 billion. NOK, where 6 out of 7 billion. kr goes to the country's 1 pst. Richest. In the light of these growing differences, my question is 6 billion. kr to the country’s 1 pst. The richest continue to be an important priority for the Right, or whether there is a willingness to rethink the policy of redistribution in order to reduce the increasing disparities in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e346	I spent a lot of my time talking about just what helps most to reduce differences in this country, namely the school, ensuring that everyone in this country has equal opportunities to get what they want. It's about ensuring that everyone gets a good education, and then you actually have to give priority and bet in school. You have to spend the money on knowledge, and you have to spend the money on the teachers – because they have the skills they want and that are needed to get more people to finish school. The biggest difference in society is between those who have a job and those who don't have a job, and then it's also a little important to have a policy that makes it possible for business to create jobs. Obviously, part of the Workers' Party believes that this is the right thing to do, if not just to have no discounts, to do even higher taxes on wealth, but you don't do it, because at some level you also have to realize that having a good framework for business to create – instead of having to lose businesses for money – is part of creating more jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e351	It's like there's municipalities running primary school in this country, which gets 4.5 billion. kr extra in free income next year. So there's more learning in school with red-green municipal budgets. Then the previous government has determined in its report that what increases differences most in Norway is that the richest are getting richer. We are all concerned with reducing school drop-outs to include more people in the workplace, but it is for them at the top — which is increasing the disparities dramatically in Norway now, and which contribute most to the increased disparities — that is going the fastest. In this right-hand policy, which is to give a full share tax, there are also 3 billion. kr in commercial real estate. So my question to the representative Bru is what's going on with the Norwegian economy right now that assets in commercial property need 3 billion. kr in tax cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e358	I've just seen the reactions, among other things. from business after the tax bill that came, which clearly indicates that this will make it more difficult for them now on the way out of a pandemic. I have also recorded that the Minister of Industry in this government himself points to that when, for example, he did. has paid dividends from its company, it is for the purpose of paying taxes on wealth. Now he actually has to increase that dividends in order to pay property taxes because you also increase taxes on dividends. It goes without saying that if the money had been left in the companies – as the Minister of Industry himself has said – they would have gone to create more jobs. But when I'm concerned with knowledge and teachers, it's because we know that it's absolutely the most important thing. When this government prioritizes the use of e.g. Three billion. NOK to give all 10 cents less in the electricity charge, you could rather use it on e.g. not cut into the teacher-specialist scheme, do not cut into the measure that was there to close the knowledge gaps that many students have after the pandemic. We have also been for measures that help everyone, for example. We've increased child welfare for the first time in 20 years. So this is a little bit of a strange debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e365	I appreciate the fact that the representative, Bru, expresses concern about the increased electricity prices, and that is a concern that we share. I am pleased that the representative Bru with it takes a settlement with what former energy minister Tord Lien said, namely that one was tired of low power prices. Then the representative says Bru to use the extraordinary dividend from Statkraft and return the cash payment to the households. Well, that's not what you do. The government that Tina Bru himself was part of, warned that it would be 3.7 billion. kr extra from Statkraft next year compared to the current year. Nothing was planned for the households. The government now in office has proposed a substantial reduction in the electricity charge while targeting the weakest in society, in order to correct the unsocial gap. But what the representative Tina Bru is talking about is protecting the tax cuts that have previously been made some of the richest in Norwegian society. Why does the representative Bru think it is right to protect the tax cuts instead of giving tax relief to people most?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e373	Compared to the draft budget that we presented, this agreement concluded with the Swedish Labour Party-Center Party government will result in an increase in taxes for those who earn more than NOK 660,000. It would have been lower with our draft budget, with the measures that were there. When the government compares, it doesn't compare apples to apples. What you're doing to figure out what you're doing in taxes is you're comparing it to this year. One does not compare with the draft budget presented by the Solberg Government, which is the most reasonable one to do. The fact is that those who serve at least would get more relief with our proposal than this government adds up to. With regard to the proposal we have promoted electricity, it is quite reasonable, I think, that when you increase the yield from State Power – state power has earned a lot of money because people have paid high electricity bills – it should go back to people. That's what we add up to with our scheme. But we target it, and then we give priority to the reduction we made in the electricity charge, into this system instead because it hits better those who need it the most right now, than what the government does.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e380	I have cost myself to look at the Right employee interview on Facebook, but it is because I have believed that it was humor when the financial politicians from the Right said that the most important thing is to increase the CO 2 tax. But they continue on the same track here, with frustration and despair at the fact that the gas price will not rise more next year than the government party adds up to. The most important argument against the wealth tax is that it discriminates between Norwegian and foreign owners and that it will make it more attractive to be a foreign owner in Norway. Now, the Right is in favour of more than treble the level of fees in Norwegian jobs by 2030, while I know that the expected quota price in Europe is going to be about NOK 1000 ton, i.e. a double. Then my question is to the representative Bru: Why does the Right believe that Norwegian companies should have a double level of fees as our closest competitors in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e390	I perceive that both the Right and the Advance Party agree that we will achieve the climate goals we have set for ourselves. Then we actually have to apply some tools that make it possible and that we get it done. I understand the concern that businesses may have, or the concern that businesses may have, for increased CO 2 taxes, but that's exactly why we've been jointly concerned that when we do these things, it's going to be in a tax shift, that's one that reduces other things, which is an example of working capital tax. What I think is a little strange about this criticism from the Progress Party is that we obviously hear very different things when we go on company visits. When I talk to actors like driving hydrogen, they say that one of the most important things to get a hydrogen bet in Norway is that the CO 2 tax goes up, because that's the only way to create profitability in these new industries. Without that, there's no reason to do that either. We must do that if we are to create the new green jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e401	I was going to ask the representative Bru about how the right-wing government had intended to bring the Progress Party to form a majority for its budget proposal, but we got a sort of answer to that in the previous line. In this budgetary agreement, which we have concluded with the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, the CO 2 charge on the base is increased by 28 pst. The one-off charge for fossil goods vehicles, the electricity car share in the leasing market must finally be raised, there will be much more money for Enova for industrial emissions cuts, and now, in fact, the money paid by electricity customers to Enova is going to go back to energy efficiency improvements in households. And there's a lot, a lot more. Over the last few years, the government has just compensated for an increase in environmental taxes by cutting other environmental taxes. Oil policy has been at full speed. It has not been a matter of pauseing the concession rounds as we do now. So my question is: what would the Right propose to close the emission gap by 2030, which can actually get a majority of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e411	Now we will never know what would have been the result if we were to sit and negotiate late night hours to get a budget into port. But what I know, at least, is that on the civil side, we always said that if an increase in the tax burden in one place, one would bring it down to another. That is not the case now with this government and with the support of SV. Now we know that the taxes are going to go up, up, up all the way; they're never going to compensate enough. Then I am critical of the grip that is being done for the CO 2 tax on the socket, not because I do not believe that you should increase the CO 2 fee there too – because we agree on that. But what I'm wondering, when you increase so much next year, is if that means you're going to go further beyond NOK 2000 tons when you get to 2030. It creates an unpredictability for the industry. And it's not going to be able to count in the right way how much you actually cut. So I'm asking myself a little questioning, as I've expressed earlier, whether what is now being presented is actually cutting as much as our draft budget. But there's no doubt that we would also have had to do more, because we have a gap because of the calculation error in the models that came out. So we had to do more, so did we.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e424	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e429	Norway has a new government with a new plan for Norway. I am pleased that the Central Party and Labour Party governments have reached a good budgetary agreement with SV. We have a new plan for Norway, which means that we are going to reduce the differences between people, that we are going to help see those who have the most demanding, and that we are going to have targeted measures to try to help some of those who have been out of work, not least some of those who have been out of work for a long time. We're going to have a policy to see all of Norway, to have targeted arrangements to take care of those who live extremely, those who don't have so many speakers to fight their case, and who don't have headlines in the newspapers every single day about their situation and the life they live. We have a government to see both those who have a difficult economic situation, and those who live very geographically. We will contribute offensive measures to contribute to a green transition in Norway, which both helps cut greenhouse gas emissions and at the same time does so in a way where we see the country we have, so that we can make it a policy in which we also contribute to creating jobs and increasing values for the future, and where we see Norway and the diverse Norway through policy. There are too many times in Norway at the beginning of winter this year, not least because of the sharp rise in electricity prices. There are no simple solutions to the situation that has arisen and that we have inherited from that government and the majority that have been sitting for eight years. But the new government has already taken hold immediately to at least try to make everyday life a little better for some of those who strive the most, among other things. through concrete reductions in the electricity charge. There is talk of this being little talked about and less targeted – well, for those involved, it is important to get the lowest electricity charge in the winter months since the mid-1990s. We also need to take other and targeted measures against some of those who are most demanding. One of the things we are very happy to have been able to do through the budgetary process is to reverse some of the unsocial cuts that have been carried out in the last eight years with the right-wing government and the support party Progress Party – schemes that have affected both the disabled, the unemployed and the families with children. We also have a number of measures to make everyday life easier for families with children next year by reducing costs for kindergarten children and SFO children by nearly 1 billion. kr. It has a meaning, and all measures in total will, of course, have an impact on the different families. Similarly, for some of those living around in Norway, different measures are being put in place. Instead of doing as the outgoing government, which suggested that one should increase ferry prices again, we suggest that one should further reduce them – not just by a general reduction, but by going focused on, by saying that in some of the communities where there is the greatest need for ferries, we should have a plan to do the ferries free of charge. It will mean a lot to those who live there. In a big government budget, it's barely shown, but for those who live out there, it's going to be a big news – yes, it'll be a revolution in their everyday lives. We also have other targeted measures to strengthen district policy. It is a clear strengthening of a local, bystander police force, strengthening broadband, strengthening ports and fairways, strengthening outreach grants. In the area by area, we have a reinforcement. We want to see Norway as a whole, we want to reduce disparities, and we also want a targeted policy to ensure a green transition to Norway, where we create jobs and strengthen the basis for growth in the future in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e448	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e453	I note that the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV have a joint request proposal which has been promoted as a solution to proposals today. There was a budget agreement already on Monday, three days ago. Today, a new request for a more targeted and accurate system is being promoted for those who are now struggling with high electricity bills. That is, in so far as we agree and have also facilitated our proposal, through a much more targeted system than the government initially has in its draft budget. But my question is, what's happened during these three days? What new information is it that you agreed on on Monday, that is not so precise any longer, so that you now have to have a proposal for your own government to actually correct the policy you agreed on three days ago? Is there any recognition that this policy is too weak and focused and that a new decision is needed now to correct that policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e460	We have a majority, and we have a government that targets every single day working to find new and better solutions to meet the powerful situation that people notice, with higher power prices. From having a majority who had an energy minister who said that one was tired of low power prices, which worked at higher power prices, which targeted an increase in the electricity charge by between 40 and 50 pst. during its period, a government now has a government that takes seriously the increased electricity prices. One has reduced the electricity charge by 3 billion. kr – which I record is the opposite of the local party – and at the same time has many targeted actions to address those who are weakest in society, correcting unsocial cuts. But we will do more, and we will look at new solutions to be able to also hit those that are particularly hard hit, further – with good measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e465	To pursue this a little further, the budgetary authority came on Monday. It uses the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV in a joint draft budget of 3 billion. NOK on a flat reduction in the electricity charge. It is, of course, nice for all of us, who get a reduction in the electricity charge, but if one was concerned that there should be a more targeted system, why did the budgetary partners not present it in the budget agreement already on Monday? This is a familiar situation. They had e.g. Three billion. NOK one could redispatch, which could have been used much more specifically. We have put forward our proposal, which shows that it is possible to target this in a completely different way, and will ask the government to follow it up. I am so pleased that the government has changed the course in this area, and that one now sees the need for a more targeted system that makes better for those who need it the most. What has happened during these three days that makes a person now change his mind about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e473	Firstly, when the electricity price goes up and the electricity charge has risen sharply over recent years, through the Right-Fremskritsparte regime, the aim is to reduce the charge. So those of us who have high incomes and high wealth -- now I'm not going to include myself in those who have high wealth, but at least I have a pretty high income per day -- can tolerate paying something more of our income and our wealth in tax. It is a targeted policy to take care of the everyday lives of ordinary people in Norway and at the same time that those who have their backs to carry can contribute somewhat more to the community. In addition, we work targetedly with schemes that can take care of those who are weakest in society, those who are struggling with high electricity bills, through further measures. It is already part of the budget agreement, but we are working specifically every single day and will come up with new initiatives by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e480	Yesterday, I challenged the Minister for Fisheries, Mr Björn Schjäran, for a disappointing effort in the maritime sector and the net pay system. He could then tell that the government had other good purposes that a wanted to prioritise, such as spectacle support and dental health, rather than prioritizing the net pay scheme. In the election campaign, the Centre Party was both high and green and promised to strengthen the net pay system. So my question is: does the Center Party share the priority that the Workers' Party here refers to, or does the Centre Party still remember part of its message from the election campaign to strengthen the maritime sector and remove the ceiling of the net pay scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e485	What the Workers' Party-Center Party government has done in the budget agreement, also with the support of SV, is to make sure to reverse large cuts in the net pay system, essentially parts of it, in what was put on the table by us – which was appreciated by both seafarers' organisations and others along the coast – so that one should know that there are better arrangements for the next year than what the outgoing government, to which the representative's party was a supporting party, offered. We also have other important investments related to the maritime sector, both green shipping, ports and fairways, environmentally friendly ports, etc., a strong investment for coastal purposes, which was not within the hands of the outgoing government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e492	I share with the representative Gjelsvik the pleasure of the spin-off that is going on for smaller differences and smaller emissions. This is absolutely necessary when we see the challenges ahead. The representative himself was about the power prices that are now threatening the industry and weighing people. That is the result of our being connected and partly subject to a European free market, in which we export power and import high prices. We also see that the large market dominance in the housing sector makes speculation over security, and we see a challenge with the climate and natural crisis that threatens both life and food production. Then I wonder if the representative, Mr Gülsvik, shares the SV's view on the importance of even greater leverage for economic redistribution and also on slowing down market power, taking political control and strengthening democracy in the solutions for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e499	I think it was a very good question from the representative Bergstø. I also think that the SV and the government parties have found good solutions in the budget agreement, both to ensure stronger redistribution and to ensure more powerful measures for greening in common. I think that, from each side, we have made good proposals on which we have jointly been able to stand together and which will contribute to a good budget – a very good budget – for Norway next year. With regard to the situation that is going on in concrete terms, it is quite clear that this situation requires different measures, as the government parties have already said in the Hurdal platform are important to look at. We both have to look at how we can mitigate the effects of the high current prices in the short term, and we have to go in and look at what we can do over time to get electricity prices under control, also in relation to the European market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e506	There are many points in this budgetary agreement that you might want to ask questions about, and I choose to ask the question to the Center Party: What in the world is the Center Party having against private kindergartens? Of the many points you're dealing with in this equation, there are, among other things, – in addition to considering whether to remove all commercial operations in the welfare service, but this is the case – a bill that introduces a reporting obligation to the municipality when the ownership of a nursery is transferred to someone other than the country. So if someone who owns a kindergarten is going to sell it to someone other than the state, then a notification must be sent to the municipality – and not only a notification must be made; it should also be a pre-purchase right for the municipality. So if a family nursery is transferred to the next generation, for example, the public has to come in and buy up the whole nursery. So I'm asking, what is the Central Party having against private kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e513	Now it's an interesting line from the representative Rotevatn's side. There is a lot that we, each on our side, have been criticised for in policy in recent years. But just in the case of private kindergartens, we share part of that criticism regarding the year's budget, if one thinks it's critical, and that's that the outgoing government cut off pension subsidies for private kindergartens, from 13 to 11 pst., and we went from 11 to 10 pst. We believe that this is the right thing to do, and have recorded that it has been met with criticism, but that is something that both the outgoing government did, as the representative Rotevatn was part of, and we have also followed up. In the case of the system of reporting obligations for the sale of kindergartens, good solutions must be found for this. It can hardly be the big challenge for one to set up such a system to have good solutions for the sale of private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e520	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e525	This autumn, we have experienced other parties fighting to increase taxes and taxes on people and jobs in Norway. The budget agreement on the red-green side increases taxes and levies by 9 billion. NOK, and only after approx. six weeks with new government. More than half a million Northmen who save in shares and funds because it gives good returns, but also risks, now get a real tax return when they realize a win. Unfortunately, there are many examples of how tax austerity affects ordinary people. The Progress Party has shown a different direction in its alternative state budget. We want to reduce the fees that hit most of those who have the least, and we want to bring tax relief to low and medium incomes. Then we must also give priority to the expenditure side of the budget. We cannot finance everything for everyone above the state budget. Right now, ordinary people in Norway have some unusual challenges. The electricity price is extremely high, fuel prices are record high, and there is a large increase in food prices. In total, this gives some shocking effects to the private economy of people, and so the Progress Party is proposing a crisis package for most people. We propose to reduce fuel prices by reducing taxes, removing electricity taxes and the VAT on electricity, and to assess a reduction in VAT on food by the government. It will mean something to ordinary people in everyday life. If our proposals don't get a majority, we have an alternative with cash support of NOK 4000 to all the country's households in the current year to compensate for extreme electricity prices. I note that more than we have now woken up and launched various proposals, but there must be a common objective that the level of compensation is sufficiently high, and not least that payments can be made very quickly. The containment has to be incorporated into the 2021 re-degradation, but there is reason to recall record high revenues from both State and State networks due to power prices and, in addition, high oil and gas prices. The situation is acute, but the Minister for Oil and Energy is not taking part in this important debate in Stortinget. The Progress Party has previously secured a majority in order to eliminate and reduce excise duties on typical border products. There has been an important start in bringing these charges down to Swedish level and limiting the trade leakage to, among other things. Sweden. The result will be increased turnover, increased value creation and more jobs in Norway. Close limits under the pandemic have demonstrated the extent of border trade. Now it's opened up, and the Norwegians are going back across the border to trade food, tobacco and alcohol, which they would otherwise buy in Norway. Work and the NHO call for a warning, but the government does not propose any measures to limit job losses in Norway. It costs to remove taxes, but the option can quickly be much worse and more serious for the long-term revenue side of the budget. Over the past eight years, the Progress Party has helped to reduce car charges for, among other things. to speed up the replacement of the car park in Norway. Reduced car charges have enabled several Norwegians to choose new, modern engine technology and greater safety in new cars. We are driving more cars, but the emissions have fallen sharply due to the changes in the fees. Now it tightens up, and 20,000 Norwegians who have ordered a rechargeable hybrid car with delivery in 2022 can get a price increase of up to NOK 80000. For these customers, an electric car is not an alternative because of long distances and getting charging options. But they choose the second most environmentally friendly option and are severely punished. That's the wrong charging policy. The Progress Party has prioritised tax relief in our budget option for 2022, but has also made clear priorities on the expenditure side. It is completely incomprehensible that the government parties, together with the SV, will contribute to increasing people’s disease costs by increasing the proportion of those with a free card. So it affects almost 1.5 million people and is a very unsocial measure that the Progress Party has stopped before, but then it came back. It is now becoming more expensive to be ill in Norway, and it is quite alarming that the Minister of Health does not take part in this debate in Stortinget, but it may be to avoid being reminded of previous opinions. We have also prioritised pensioners in our draft budget, with both increased minimum pensions and reduced curtailment for married people and cohabitants. We also expected that SV had done in the budget negotiations, but nothing came out of them. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e546	The representative Hans Andreas Limi has taken up the suggestions he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e553	For the last eight years, the budget in this Chamber has been adopted by the votes of the Progress Party. When I read the alternative budget of the Progress Party for 2022, I am pleased that the budget is adopted without the influence of the Progress Party, for here it is very well known, but poor, Progress Party policy. There are billions of them in climate action, cultural purposes, aid and agriculture. It is cut into integration, cut into free legal aid, cut for Sami purposes and for church, religious and life-seeking purposes. The cut list is long, but what really makes me wonder is that the Progress Party budgets to put down, among other things. regional health enterprises and government administrators already from the new year onwards. So my question to the representative Limi is therefore whether the Progress Party has abdicated as a governing party, and whether the party no longer cares about providing budgets on which it is actually going to rule a country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e559	As I said in my post, in our alternative state budget we show a direction and a completely different direction from that of the government parties with SV. We want to reduce red tape, we want to shut down the state administrator, and we want to wind up the regional health companies just because we think there is a completely unnecessary administrative link in Norway, with more than five million people. Then we've also made visible what's the year effect of making these changes. At the same time as we are proposing to close regional health businesses, we are strengthening local health businesses, and we are spending money on a national governance unit centrally. So it's a relationship. I'm very clear that we're making priorities. If we're going to give priority, we can't give everything to everyone. There are also many areas in our budget where we have strengthened health, transport and what are our priorities, which are very clearly stated policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e566	I thank you for the answer, but I was not particularly reassured. There are other cuts and balancing proposals that I am wondering about, and that are disturbing me. Fortunately, the representative, Mr Limi, must not have any influence on the budgets, but it must nevertheless be possible to try to take their policies seriously. On page 63 of the alternative budget for the Progress Party, this is about containment. It's a pretty short review, to say it like that. One of the points where there is a lot of money, but is also unaccountable and irresponsible. Here, a dividend of 29.5 billion is charged. kr from the Folketrøgdfondet, Statens pensionfond Norway. The funds of our pension funds are owned by the Norwegian people. The purpose of saving is to support the financing of our pension expenditure. My question is therefore whether we should interpret the dividend of 29.5 billion. kr from the State pension fund Norway as a new line from the Progress Party, where the people's pension savings are to finance the tax burden on the rich and the removal of tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e571	What's the challenge of the Social Security Fund – which has nothing to do with popularism, that's something that hangs again from the old of – is that the fund has become too big. It now has a management capital of 320 billion. kr, it can invest in Norwegian companies and also in Nordic companies, but capital has grown so enormous that it is a challenge for the Swedish Social Security Fund now to make these investments within the limits set. That is why the Ministry of Finance has previously announced a case to the Stortinget on how to solve this, and there are different solutions. By the third quarter of this year, the Social Security Fund has a return of 36 billion. kr. What we're proposing in our balancing is that we use part of this return to solve important societal challenges that matter to most people. That the Workers' Party characterizes it as unprofessional, yes, it will be on their behalf.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e576	When you ask people what's really important to them, there's a lot of answers that parents and grandparents get a good care for the elderly, and that kids get a good school with time and resources to take them – that's important. It is the municipalities that are to ensure this important welfare supply around our country, and therefore it was so important for the Central Party and the Labour Party in their draft budget to raise the municipal economy, he strengthened so that the municipalities can provide good services. The party of progress has been part of the plurality that has ruled this country for the last eight years, and when the party of progress had power, they took several steps that weakened the possibilities of the municipalities to provide good services, among others. by shifting costs associated with resource-required services to municipalities to a greater extent. So the question for Limi is: Now is the Progress Party in opposition. Can we expect a new course from the Progress Party in view of the future municipal economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e583	After all, we are strengthening resource-intensive services with more than what has been proposed by the government and government parties. At the same time, we are concerned with our citizens, regardless of the municipality in which they live, and therefore we need to give priority to measures that are right for the citizens both on the tax side and on the expenditure side. We have proposed a billion to care for the elderly, to strengthen the care of the elderly outside the municipalities, and at the same time to combat loneliness among the elderly, which has been a high priority on our part in the past. It is a challenge that has arisen during the pandemic in particular, and therefore it is important that we now commit sufficient appropriations. With regard to the state funding of care for the elderly, the Labour Party and the new government will abandon the pilot scheme. We propose to strengthen that system. And we are concerned that we should maintain the good private offer we have, among other things. in the nursery sector, which means a lot to municipalities in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e588	The Barnhagegesetz states that government grants and parental benefits are to be paid to children in kindergarten. Unfortunately, we have seen some serious examples through the media that kindergarten owners have granted large management fees and private profits, among others. through the purchase and sale of kindergartens. Fortunately, the budgetary agreement between SV and the government marks the beginning of the end of profit in welfare. On the Progress Party website, I see that the Progress Party is proud of the 2003 Kindergarten Agreement, which they got together with SV. But was it really the intention of the Progress Party that the owners should make their money and parental payments from the municipality? Is it not the intention that the money allocated to kindergartens should go to the kids in kindergarten and not to super-profit in international investment funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e593	I am pleased that the representative initially said that there are some examples of the description she gives. They're not many – fortunately. The situation is that about half of the private kindergartens have a deficit or are struggling to balance. With what is adopted today, we can expect that it will be very difficult to operate private kindergartens in the future, and it is a very bad thing because private kindergartens have been a very significant contribution to getting full childcare coverage in Norway. It's not just kindergartens and private kindergartens that the new government is after. In reality, all private welfare actors who provide good services, good quality, represent a diversity and, above all, a good complement to the public offer will be stopped. It's sad for the users, and it's very, very sad for the municipalities, who get increased expenses.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e600	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e605	Today, a red-green budget is adopted, and I would like to thank the Labour Party and the Centre for the good, tough and, finally, very fruitful negotiations. We have a settlement that makes the budget more red and greener – better. The budget agreement will mean more living off for poor families and people who were exposed to the unsocial cuts of the right. The agreement means that they have to pay more in taxes at the top, while new welfare reforms for the many are under way. There will be a prolonged lifting of legal certainty and, finally, child protection will not be taken from those receiving social assistance. And not least: climate policy is tightening up. For the first time in a budgetary agreement, a forthcoming round of allocations to the oil industry will be scrapped, and it will be more expensive to extract oil and gas on the base. At the same time, the green shift towards industry and the economy is expected to accelerate. This is the decade when we build the country green to solve the climate crisis and equip Norway's economy for the future. After decades of increasing inequality, it is to be reversed. We're going to redistribute wealth and spread power. The climate crisis and the growing inequality cannot be resolved separately: they are linked and must be resolved together. In the alternative budget of the SV, which we are also discussing here today, we show our overall priorities: policies that will bring down greenhouse gas emissions and the disparities, which will make Norway far greener, fairer and more solidarity. Several of these clear priorities are re-examined in the budgetary agreement. It was impossible for SV to be on a budget that would have cut less greenhouse gas emissions than the civil government had provided. Now, instead, we adopt a budget that cuts more. We have reached an agreement on a number of measures to reduce emissions in Norway — both in the short and long term — in the transport sector, where it will be more expensive to drive a fossil car next year, for both passenger cars and vans. It is important, but it requires that good alternatives are available, both technically and economically. With SV, the electric car benefits are now maintained and strengthened, for both new and used cars. Now the biogas vehicle is to be exempted from the bombing, which includes, inter alia: Norway’s Lastebileier-Federal Association has pointed to this as an important carrot for truck owners to take the decision to drive green. In industry, greenhouse gas emissions should accelerate, inter alia: through the Eco-Technology Scheme and significantly increased allocations to Enova, but also through a greater focus on hydrogen, which we need to cut emissions in industry and get the new green jobs. Now it is necessary to explore how to replace all fossil energy in industry and how to cut the emissions of differences and other instruments from the highest point emissions in Norway. SV is also going to require influence in oil policy, and we are going to show that here. 26. Concession round for oil extraction in new and vulnerable areas will be none until next year. It's a first step. SV will complete all searches on the socket, but now the CO 2 fee for oil companies will also be increased by 28 pst. It'll be more expensive to extract oil and gas next year. We will also have a climate agreement with the petroleum industry and a fixed emission ceiling to achieve the climate objectives. That, and a conversion fee to reduce the climate risk and speed up green investment on the pedestal, the government will now come back. We need to reduce investment in oil more quickly and raise investment in new export opportunities, such as sea wind. It will contribute to a green designation of a conversion fee. In the years to come, it's going to be more expensive to pollute. It's going to cost to emit CO 2, but we have to make sure that people are compensated, and that increased environmental taxes are not a driver for increasing differences. Therefore, SV proposes a redistributive compensation, a green people’s bonus, whereby the income from increased environmental taxes is reimbursed to all with income below NOK 500000. If SV's model had been adopted, it would have given NOK 1450 more to each person in that group. We have a common responsibility to find this kind of compensation, because we cannot compensate in the long term for reducing other environmental taxes. Therefore, it is important that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV now agree to find other and more redistributive models. After eight years of bourgeois government, there are holes and gaps in several parts of our well-being. The most unsocial and petty are the many cuts in welfare benefits that have hit them with the worst advice of all. That's why SV has prioritised using negotiating power this year to reverse several of the worst cuts, because there's one of the most urgent things. SV stops proposals that the disabled who are able to work a bit will lose social security. Erna Solberg's cut in children's allowances for minors is definitively deleted. Children get the spectacle back, and the living quarters are finally increased. Social assistance families will receive child benefit wherever they live in the country, and the unemployed and on- leave will receive holiday pay, so that those who have paid the highest price for the coronary crisis can get a proper holiday next year. But the welfare can not only be repaired, it must also be expanded. From the start of school, there will be free half-day space in the SFO for all first-raters throughout Norway, so that all kids can participate in the game – and learning – and families across the country will save large sums. That's the first step on the way. SV's goal is for the SFO to be free of charge. So now we're starting the long-term work on the way to a full dental reform, because it's not going to be the wallet that decides what kind of dental care you have. More young people get cheaper dentists, and more support for children and young people who need dental regulation. The capacity of the public dental services in the counties shall be expanded and the government shall start work on the provision of dental services with self-participation in line with other health services in Norway. After many years of budgets giving the most to the rich, we now get a deal that does the opposite. The tax is increased on the large assets and on the million wages. The ones that have the least are the ones that get the most. It was supposed to be missing, too. While many in Norway have experienced a much tougher economic situation in recent years, the wealthiest of the country has grown ever richer, and they have increased. The tax system ensures that the country's super-rich people pay a smaller proportion of their income in taxes than a teacher or those who wash their offices do. It increases the differences, and it robs the community of resources that we need to build the welfare of the future and the societies of the future. The SV as part of the majority shall be amended accordingly. Changes are needed in Norway. The differences shall decrease and greenhouse gas emissions shall decrease. We in SV are going to use our power to make sure of it. We're ready to use our influence to get real penetration. We're not going to do everything, we're going to give priority to the most important thing, and now it's a fairer and more solidarity Norway – and a climate policy that takes the climate crisis seriously. It's this SV represents: a policy for the many, not for the few. With that, I'll take up SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e651	Then the representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski addressed the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e658	I am one of those who have a lot of good things to say about universal schemes, because they are well-suited to lifting many at the same time and also creating upliftment on both taxes and welfare systems. Child protection is an example of this, and what both the Right and the SV believe is a good tool against poverty. The Solberg government then also increased child welfare, as opposed to what SV did when they were in government. But when everyone is lifted equally, the social difference doesn't cancel out. With almost 3 billion. kr for a lower electricity charge gets those who use the most, a lot, but it does little for them with at least from before. Lower maximum price for all gives nothing to the 41000 low-income families below current maximum prices. The big challenge we're facing is to raise those who are out of work, into it. It is also the most effective tool for combating poverty. I wonder: What concrete results will we see next year on inclusion in working life for those outside, now that SV has been allowed to get a hand on the wheel?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e666	Thank you for the question. I also believe that we have reason to thank the Christian People's Party for the increase in the child's rights we received under the previous government. That was good, and there is something SV has also worked for a long time. It's interesting that the representative from the Right in the post talks about both universal arrangements and getting people to work. One of the challenges facing those needs-tested schemes, which have a limit on income, is that they contribute to the unprofitability of getting into work for some of those who have the least. That's why SV has been so strong against, among other things. the arrangements which have had a limit of income for getting free space in kindergarten, SFOs and other schemes, because they operate in such a way that getting out of work does not necessarily pay off. Universal schemes, where one does not have to come by, but which are the same for all, are essential both to get people to work and to re-distribute through the tax bill and then build greater support for the broad welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e673	I asked what concrete results we would see of the radical steps taken in this budget, because radical action must lead to radical results. The rapporteur, Mr Knutsen, boasted of budgetary changes that do not increase the use of oil money, and the representative, Mr Kaski, said that the budget has become more red. The last thing I can say is very much in agreement. It's a total tax increase of over 2 billion. kr to enterprises, business owners and job creators, in addition to the use of increased State power dividends and temporary revenues from the delayed construction of both the City of the Ship Tunnel and the National Museum for permanent increases in fixed costs, which will in turn raise taxes next year. We've only seen the first step, for next year, the first government party will be able to present its entire budget, and second, SV will be a contributor to make it go in a more reddish direction. I wonder: What radical tax increases can we expect for next year? Is there any thank you for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e682	The right continues in the same track and confuses private individuals' wealth with businesses. That explains a lot of the policy that has been pursued in recent years, with huge tax cuts in wealth taxes, which have not helped create more jobs in Norway but have helped to speed up the inequality we have seen. There is no corporate tax increase; here there is an increase in taxes on wealth. It is necessary since Norway’s inequality in terms of wealth is at the level of the United Kingdom. And it's not a development that SV wants. Then it is absolutely right that SV will increase the taxes more for the richest of the country. We talked earlier today about the super-rich people in Norway paying a smaller proportion of their income in taxes than a normal teacher and nurse does. Of course we have to change it. It is deeply unfair, it deprives the community of income we need to expand well-being and infrastructure and make society better. There is a development that SV is going to push for — a fairer and progressive tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e695	I would like to congratulate the SV on having made an agreement with the country. Unfortunately, SV forgot the students, the minimum pensioners were forgotten, and the electricity customers were forgotten by influencing the budget negotiations. I stand here with proposal No. 284 today, and it made me think about the website swadagenerator.no, which helps you produce meaningless words and sentences without content. This proposal does not mention any specific measure that will benefit electricity customers. The Progress Party has proposed to cut the electricity charge, and we have proposed to cut VAT on electricity. If that proposal falls, we have proposed a cash payment of NOK 4000 to households. These are concrete measures. The proposal that is on the table today is only to buy you time, and I wonder if the representative can mention one single measure that will come out of this, and when the power customers can expect to get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e702	SV has prioritised our negotiating efforts in these negotiations, and I really believe that it is urgent now to reverse the unsocial cuts that the government and the Progress Party have carried out in recent years. Yes, there is an urgent need to reverse the spectacle support cut that the Progress Party has been behind. It's urgent to remove the incredibly unsocial cut of the child supplement for the disabled, which the Progress Party actually suggested not only to maintain, but actually to make bigger in its alternative budget. With the Party of Advancement in power, the debauchery will have less to live on. There I am proud that we now prioritised the unsocial cuts. So I believe that it is urgent for the government to come back with concrete proposals that will give immediate and short-term relief to those who are now being taken hard by the high power price. SV is out today and suggests that just a cash payment can be a solution to that. I think the government is going to prioritize it, and is going to come back quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e709	It really hurts a little bit to have to ask SV a critical question about the green profile in the budget, because I guess SV has spent a lot of time saying that the last weeks to correct the weaknesses of the green profile proposed by the Labour Party and the Centre for the income area. One has also come a good piece on the road. But I ask anyway, because when the representative Kaski takes so much time in his post to make it clear that this proposal will cut more emissions than the previous government suggested, is the question: Who else than SV is good for that claim? The Ministry of Finance doesn't do well for him, the Ministry of Climate and Environment does not, Cicero does not, and environmental organisations do not. The only thing that goes well for the claim is SV itself. Then the question is. Was that what was the important reason for changing government, that one should get a Labour Party-Center Party government that in total ends up with a budget that might be in the vicinity of as green as the bourgeois government suggested?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e716	I thank you for the question. I would like to start by saying that I believe that the representative from the Left is fully aware that we, as environmental parties, have to draw the climate fight extra. It means that we must use the negotiating power to get through, and we must take the greater part of that struggle. I would like the representative to have asked the Workers' Party and the Senter Party about climate change issues that have not been raised earlier in the debate today. That, I think, is crucial to being able to build greater support and attention and draw on the largest parts of the climate issue. So it's absolutely right that there's a lack of numbers here. We've asked for it from the government. I see that the Right has asked a question now. I think that's good, but the reality is that we have too poor numbers and too few figures to calculate climate effects of different measures. There are many more concrete climate measures in this budgetary agreement than in the draft budget submitted in October. It is real, and there are measures that will cut emissions in the short and long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e723	Although I am disappointed at some points and disagree with something, I would like to congratulate the representative on the budget agreement. I know a little bit about what it's like to be in those shoes, so I know that you've been working significantly over the past few weeks. I would like to give a kind advice that all the proposals that remain to be considered should also be followed up very well by the representative himself. What I'm most disappointed in is cut in the leisure card. We've done a lot, and I see that volunteering comes out worse with the setup that's here than what was suggested. The card is a new way to think about it. All children get NOK 2000 in their hands and can spend it on their own leisure activities. It's a innovative way, which I think would have been accurate, and which would have made one sit in every classroom and discuss: what do you want to spend your money on? I think it is very bad that SV believes that it is so urgent to cut. The second thing I'm disappointed in is that in the world, unfortunately, there's a big backbit for the world's poorest. This budget cuts half a billion dollars to the poorest in the world. What was the urgency of doing that, and why did SV not prioritise that kind of thing when they said they were so busy prioritizing hard?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e736	To the first comment on investigations, I can assure the representative that we are going to follow it very closely, and already in six months we are going to negotiate the revised budget. It will be a first opportunity to make sure that the work is in progress and that what is to be delivered is then delivered. To the leisure card: I believe that it was a proper priority, and that it is a scheme that is too narrow and that does not meet well enough. It is important to strengthen the economy of families with children directly. We'll do that with some steps in this budget. Then I believe very strongly that if you want to strengthen your volunteering and sport, you need to strengthen those who run with, among other things. Sports clubs, because especially in areas with living conditions challenges, they are making enormous efforts to get young people to participate, and also have low costs to participate. Then, of course, the government and we must jointly make greater demands and have greater expectations for sport itself, that they should have lower prices than is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e743	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e749	Norway is a rich country, but it doesn't work like that for those who are now struggling with electricity bills. There is a lot of money in Norway, but they are collected at too few hands, and the differences are increasing both in income and even more in wealth. A small upper class moves ever further from the rest of us. That's the way it was before the pandemic, and the crisis has put the differences on speed. The costs have been primarily incurred, and are still primarily borne by workers, by those who have lost their jobs and income, and by those who are on their way to keep the wheels running. What many thought was going to be a short period of exceptional conditions, has put deep traces into hundreds of thousands of families and has worn out people who work in socially critical professions. At the same time, the country's richest – food barons, food kings, property billionaires – have made enormous money. It turns out, as Red warned against, that too many companies that got money from the community have sent dividends to the owners. That's why the power prices are hitting extra hard now, because both the wallet and the patience are worn out by a lot of people. When you hear about hundreds of millions of dollars in crisis aid sent to foreign owners, or about government leaders who make millions, or about billionaires who excuse the fact that they own more private airplanes, because, after all, they don't use them that much, it's no wonder that Red, and a lot of us, are impatient. It's urgent to turn this around. I would like to say a little about Red's two suggestions in the matter. One is that when the state incurs billions of high electricity prices through VAT and dividends, this money will be paid directly again as an immediate measure to help those who are struggling to pay the electricity bills. Here the government has to deliver, and they have to do it quickly. The second is Red's overall draft state budget for 2022, a budget that puts workers with and without work first, and that takes the climate and nature crisis seriously. The Red's budget is a budget that reduces the differences by increasing the income of many of them with the lowest income — the unemployed, the disabled, the students, the pensioners, the social welfare recipients. It cuts in the bill pile to people most, and the bill for dentists and kindergarten we send to the rich, with a more fair tax system, especially the 1 pst. the richest is allowed to contribute more to the community. Thirdly, the unsocial sector reverses — as the increased excess of healthcare, which dates from next year. Red's budget is a budget that also cuts emissions by making the tickets on bus, train, track and track 20 pst. cheaper, such as scrapping large polluting motorways and rather spending money on safer roads and faster trains across the country, cutting VAT on what we want to do more, and introducing fair environmental taxes that distinguish between normal consumption and unnecessary luxury consumption. It took time, but on Monday we finally got a budget settlement. This agreement shows that it is useful to say clearly from and press for, as both the trade union movement and Red have done in the last few weeks. It has helped to correct much of the policy that the Solberg government left behind and that the Workers' Party and the Centre chose to maintain in their proposal for unclear reasons. It is good and important that the cut in the child supplement and the free amount of disability are reversed for the next year, and that the municipalities stop taking child welfare from social welfare recipients, which Red has often suggested doing something about it. Sometimes you can wonder how different the government shift has been, but at least we've seen one thing very clearly in the last few weeks, and that's that, unlike the right-hand government, we now have a government that can deliver if the pressure from the bottom and from the left-hand side gets strong enough. But then there's a lot of gray, even blue, in the red-green budget deal. It is disappointing that it is going to be more expensive to be sick with the increase in self-interest of almost 500 kroner. They keep the large cut of the Solberg government at the current rate for the around 10,000 people participating in different labour market measures next year. It is a grossly unfair cut that makes the way back to work more difficult. And then the government bluffed people. Before the elections, Støre said that the crisis measures must last as long as the crisis lasts, but on 1 January, the corona supplement on the daily allowance is removed. So the tens of thousands of lay-offs and the unemployed will fall into income, and the same day, about 2,000 long-term unemployed will lose their daily allowance altogether. Towards the summer, more than 20 000 long-term unemployed are at risk. This has to be solved. I think Støre and Vedum could be a little more honest that the bloodthirsty supplementary budget they presented was not about too little time, but about too little will. The positive thing about the equation is that it shows a little bit of what we can do with a fairer tax system and also with a small increase in taxes for the richest, but still a lot remains. So they're at peace with the tax settlement made by the Workers' Party and the Center's right-hand side a few years ago, including the huge cut in corporate tax that SSB showed last week is a main reason why the richest of us pay less taxes than most people. If the Workers' Party and the Centre take off their self-imposed coercive strain in tax policy and rather increase the tax on company profits in the coming years, we can afford free dental health with good margins during the current and future period – not in decades, as the current pace of the conciliation provides. We're going to enjoy everything that's changed by Erna Solberg's policy, but nothing happens by itself, and a lot of work remains. With strong popular back coverage, the mission lies with the new majority of the Stortinget. In Red, we're impatient, but we're constructive, and we're going to press on to ensure that the left-hand election season leads to real change for everyone who really needs it. Now people need a change in energy policy, because when the Storing in the hydropower country of Norway, which sucks and bullies of eternal renewable energy, must therefore adopt crisis support for the electricity bills of most people, there is something fundamentally wrong. No one's surprised by the reason. The other parties have built Norway more and more closely into a European electricity market at much higher prices than we have had in Norway. They say that the foreign tables are about security of supply, but we got full security of supply in 1993, so the cables have since had one function, namely to connect even more closely to energy markets that have always had higher electricity prices than we have. Now there is a need for action, not a government that is holding hands and watching the power industry export in strees flowing out of the country while the power prices go down the roof and the water storage units are being tapped. No, there is a need for a government to do as Red proposes, namely to slow the export of power, to use the mechanisms of agreements concluded and to instruct Statnet to prevent further reductions in filling levels. It will be interesting to see whether the government will take political action, or whether the Workers' Party summits in their overconfidence to the EU and to ACER will just let the market rule. Doing the last one, the usual people's turn to pay sky-high electricity bills all winter and spring with. We're not going to have it like that. We don't want to ruin the most important competitive advantage for Norwegian industry for 100 years, what has built the country, what's a big light in the life of this cold and quite dark rock smoke far north, that's cheap electricity from eternal renewable hydropower. Now it has to be seized. The red's proposals must be given a majority, and the government must leave the EU. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e787	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e794	What in the world is what Red has against Norwegian industrial workplaces? Maritime industry along the entire Norwegian coast is in one of its largest conversions ever, and Norwegian petroleum activities are to become less important over time. If Red had been allowed to decide, this would have happened almost uncontrollably through a no to any further search activity. That's bad enough, but Red doesn't just say no to the workers in the petroleum industry. They also clearly refuse that we should be able to convert the offshore industry into liquid sea wind on the entire Norwegian base. Organisations as different as Greenpeace and Industry Energy are shaking their heads at the head of this anti-industrial policy from Red. The Labour Party agrees with both Greenpeace and an overall trade movement in the strong criticism of Red. The question is: What in the world has Red been doing against Norwegian industrial workplaces?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e801	Red has nothing against Norwegian industry. On the contrary, we want to get out of ACER. We want to ensure the competitive advantage over something, namely cheap electricity from hydropower, where the Workers' Party is joining forces with the bourgeois parties of the European Union, the EEA, and sends out the most force possible out of our country. We then get power prices on the roof in return from the EU and ACER. We've learned something from what's happened on land. All parties were enthusiastic about expanding as much wind power as possible on land until most people saw the consequences in their neighbourhoods. We want a strict precautionary principle before we go in for liquid sea winds, for fisheries, for the marine environment and to avoid repeating the errors of wind power on land. It's not a hokuspocus. We have to be careful not to make irreversible damage to the marine environment as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e808	In recent times, both the representative of Moxnes and the representative of Listhaug have a great deal to do with criticising our state budget. I ask the representative of Moxnes to look at what we've been given: trade union deductions, to stop the unfair shortening of disability benefits, to put in place free half a day's space for the first classes in the SFO, to reverse the unsocial cuts in spectacle support, more spacious kindergartens and more for older people's care in the municipalities – and a final point, budget or not, when we now get a pension from the first crown to 1 million employees. When the representative of Moxnes compares what we have done in this budget, and all the breakthroughs that Red has ever made since the war, can Moxnes admit that it is actually quite good?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e813	Yes, I said we should be happy about what is being corrected in the unfair legacy of the Solberg government with the Progress Party on tow. That's important, and we're clear that's good. But we have greater ambitions than that, not least because differences in Norway are increasing sharply, and they have increased even more strongly because of the coronary crisis. Then it is necessary that the new majority deliver on the wish that the voters were so clear at the autumn elections, namely a new political course, smaller differences, against privatisation, secure people's incomes around the country. That's why we think it's also important to get rid of the inequality engine number one, the hard cuts in the tax on the profits of the companies. If the Workers' Party goes away from that policy and back to the Stoltenberg in its time with the corporate tax level, we can afford to get much more than what came into the harvest budget. So we have bigger ambitions than that. That is why we are impatient too.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e818	We're all concerned with reducing the differences. In the years of Right-Handed Government, one of the most important things that was done was to get people to work. It was done by implementing measures to facilitate and invest in profitable businesses and sustainable business, and not least through school investment. Reduction in differences is improperly linked to work and education. It is therefore strange to hear Red's negative view of a business that is sustainable and profitable, while at the same time expressing a beating heart for those who are out of work. With this backcloth I have the following questions to the representative: Does he and his party see the relationship between profitable businesses and reduced differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e823	There is a need for profitability – obviously, but there is no need for tax cuts and over-confidence in trickle-down economics. This has been on the right-hand side of the West for decades – that if you cut the treasure for the richest, the money will age down and create jobs for people throughout the country. We have asked the Right and the Ministry of Finance year after year as they collided with the Progress Party: How many jobs have the cuts in the tax of the richest created in our country? Never were the citizens able to prove that it had any job creation effect. But it had a very obvious difference-making effect, so we don't believe in this voodoo economy that just cutting the taxes for the rich, most people will be richer. On the contrary, you brave the welfare state for funding, you increase the differences, and you get a poorer society for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e828	It's interesting to hear how the representative sews these different issues together. That's what I think is very exciting to listen to. The reality is that the ideology of the representative and his party has never given effect anywhere. What you see, on the other hand, is that profitable businesses create jobs, and they get people who need to get to work. That's what's needed to reduce the differences. It does not appear that the representative will recognise this. It's a little weird to listen to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e833	First of all, what creates values is not capitalists, it's not capital. It's work that creates values. Employees are the fair value creations in both the public and private sectors. Secondly, demand also creates jobs, that people can demand goods and services. Ensuring the purchasing power of people is crucial to ensuring profitability in business as well. Unlike the Right, Red is very much to support the trade union movement in their struggle to ensure that workers get their fair share of the value creation, and also secure the income of most people. While the Right fights for the owners, we fight for the value creators. It's a completely honest difference, and it's important to be aware of the difference and not look blindly at what the Right often does, that's the belief that the capitalists create values. It is with respect to report nothing but customs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e840	The problem with socialists and communists is that they tend to run out of other people's money. The money must therefore be used sensibly. We know that today more than 84 million people are fleeing. We also know that we can help 8,300 people at the same cost as it is for us to take 35 EMA refugees to Norway. The Progress Party wants to significantly reduce immigration to Norway and to help more people in their neighbourhoods. We see that the Labour Party and the Center Party want to accept a total of 3,000 quota refugees, while Red is not satisfied with it and wants to increase it to 5,000 plus 1,500 from Moria, which is a whole of 6,500. Why does Red also not want to do as the Progress Party, to help even more in the neighbourhoods, instead of, in view of the fact, accepting a few to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e848	We want and want to go in order to increase assistance to help people where they live and in the neighbourhoods from which they have fled, but also to take responsibility for accepting some more to Norway. We obviously have the advice and the opportunity to do that, and in many cases the municipalities also ask us to do it. So the Progress Party is a party that, once they have power, has moved ordinary people's money into a stream to the richest of the country, taken by the value creation created by the workers and given in tax cuts to the billionaires of the country. When we talk about spending other people's money, the Progress Party should take a long and thorough look in the mirror. They're a party for the most people, not for the most people, so you get to see what they're doing in practice, not in rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e855	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e860	A government budget is a serious matter for jobs, for schools, and for health services, and all that is important to us in the Left. But as a liberal environmental party, the most important thing for us is that the budget is always in line with our climate commitments and reinforces the green shift. The budget proposal for the Right-Left-Christian People's Party government was such a budget, with a strong commitment to environmental technology, with important efforts to preserve nature and not least with a powerful green tax shift where we increase the CO 2 tax in line with our own climate plan. The additional number of the Arbeidarparte-Senterpart-Registration suggested systematic degradation of the environmental profile, cutting key climate impacts such as the Nysnø and the environmental technology systems, cutting forest protection and other natural impacts, and not least with the CO 2 tax. The sum was a budget that is not in line with the climate plan, not in line with our climate targets, and that will increase emissions by up to 2 million tonnes of CO 2 by 2030, according to the Ministry of Finance itself. In a whole election campaign, the Labour Party has been jumping around and saying that they want cheaper fuel, so it wasn't too much to be expected, but they also said that they should do something else to weigh it up. It turned out that «some other» was absolutely nothing. Fortunately, after the negotiations with SV, this has been better. I have long enough for our environmental politicians to know that it is not a proper head shot – it has undoubtedly been working hard in the negotiations to make the budget greener, and it has been. Major impairments proposed by the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party have been reversed. At least the 26th concession round shall not take place next year. It means little in practice, but I would say it is an important symbolic step in the fight for a faster conversion of Norway and the oil industry. Unfortunately, this budgetary agreement is still less green than the option we are going to vote on today, that is from the Left, Right and Christian People's Party. In the red-green budget agreement, diesel and petrol are still to be sold with the Centerparti discount, and it is still less favourable to have an electric car as a company car. In total, it is not possible to prove that the budget cuts more or even as much as the option, but it is in the vicinity, it has been better, and I am actually happy about that. A major challenge with the direction of the new plurality – in addition to the weak climate profile – is a heavier taxing of people and businesses, and it is too serious in its first turn. It shall be more expensive to be the Norwegian owner. Intensifications in the wealth tax, the stock discount and the exchange tax will now bring in many billions from Norwegian employers. It won't happen without consequences. It will weaken investment, and that's the last thing we need in a country that's going through a powerful transition, that's going out of a corona crisis, and that doesn't exactly have a sleek state fund already. In the draft budget by the civil government, we put up a policy on business, not a policy on the fight against business. At the same time, we found room for a series of important bets. From the left-hand side, I'd like to draw 800 million. to implement the important completion reform in the school. We are proud that the absence of further education went down during our time in government, and that the apostasy went down, but we have to go on. In addition, there is money for more teachers' specialists, a scheme that the new government is now cutting off completely. There was money for an hour of extra science, for several kindergarten teachers, etc. I will also bring forward the heavy effort on the railways, at the top of the doubling of the rail budget we carried out in our time by the power, and important sums towards central EU programmes, strengthening cultural life, more than 1 pst. of GNI in assistance, etc. In sum, the budget proposal from the previous government, which we are still going to vote on today, is a proposal to create jobs, to cut emissions, and to strengthen the Norwegian economy and business along the way out of a very demanding time. A little bit indicates that the direction from the new plural – the Labour Party, the Center Party and the SV – will take us there, but we'll have to give them a few more chances before we take the final verdict. At the end, there's no matter what you choose to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e890	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e895	The representative Rotevatn did not say so much about well-being in his post, but the left said in his remarks to the budget that sustainable well-being requires a ‘tax system that motivates investment, work and savings’. After the concepts of the right and thus the left, it still means tax cuts for the richest. The rich are motivated by getting even more, as if not 38 billion. kr would be more than enough. But what about those who like to work and save, but can't? How will the Left explain that, in the opinion of the right-hand side, there must be completely different rules for them, that, unlike the richest, they must be motivated by even less?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e900	What I have to admit is a question I don't fully understand, for everyone, regardless of income and what they do, should be justified by being able to make more progress by working, by learning, by creating jobs and by investing. It applies regardless of who is. It should be the same principle for everyone, and it's because it's a good principle. It was also a good principle for the Workers' Party, at least once – they don't talk so much about it at the moment – that before one has to share, a creature has to. But neither the additional number from the government nor the budget agreement provides for more value creation. I can't actually see a single proposal for something where I think businesses and businesses will say: now we can start and add more, create more jobs and create bigger values. On the contrary, a billion entries are received from those who create these workspaces. I record that the Workers' Party opted for a so-called tax vow about how much it should increase taxes during this period. I see a pole already on that roof, and I'm therefore quite excited about what's going to happen in the next three years. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e907	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e912	I thank you for the answer, and I think to the extent that it demonstrates the great ideological difference between the right-hand side and the left-hand side of Norwegian policy. My question was about those who can't – those who want to, but who can't. It just shows that the Workers' Party and the Left have completely different inputs to what ensures well-being. For example, history has since the mid-war crisis settlement, it has been shown that the best guarantee of lasting well-being is organised employment and tripartite cooperation. No one has been able to show that tax cuts provide more jobs, but research has shown that increasing trade-union deductions for ordinary people leads to an increase in both organisational and productivity levels. It is not uncommon for the NHO to welcome the trade-union deduction for ordinary people. Does the Left not see this important point? Or is the resistance of the Left to increased trade union deductions just enough an example of the fact that the Left is really a rather union hostile party? [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e917	It's been a long time. We have to respect the clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e922	The trade union deduction in Norway has been increased before. There was an increase in the previous red-green government. A higher degree of organisation did not result. That's what we've been doing. So it might be that it's going to be completely different this time. It probably has the probability against it, but we're going to hope that it does. I'm for more people to organize. There is nothing better than whether it is going to be the result. But our experience, from Norway, does not indicate that it will be the case. So, to the extent that the representative Christoffersen's first question now in his second question, and then I understand it a little bit better, because then the question is, What do the Left mean with those who can't work? Of course, those who cannot work should have good and safe welfare arrangements. I'm tired of coming to a single country some place that has better and safer welfare arrangements for those groups than what we have here in Norway, and they've also been strengthened by our time in government, whether it's about increasing the minimum pension rate or strengthening the care scheme, or everything else we've done to make sure that people who can't be in work, whether it's care business or anything else, get a safe economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e929	The centre party is concerned that people should have good access to legal services where they live. In the last seven weeks alone, this government has put in place more measures to improve both the content and access to legal services than the Solberg government did in eight years. We allocate more money to several recruitments of officials, more to the digitisation work in the courts and allocate 100 million. kr more than Left of free legal aid. This is how the Centre Party, together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, ensures that more people have access to good legal services throughout the country. It is an honest thing that the Left has chosen to give priority to a disputed judicial reform rather than, for example, a legal reform. to increase the rates of free legal aid. But then the question is, Why? Does the Left believe that it is reasonable that people who have poor advice, for example: people on disability, not to have access to free legal assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e937	I want to say that the reinforcement of free legal aid in the negotiations here in Stortinget, which I think SV has a larger part of the era than the Center Party, is reason to rejoice. That's what I think is good, that's what I think is a good priority. It's probably a minimum of the billions you've moved in, but it's equally positive. But when one highlights the resistance to the judicial reform that the Center Party has, and as far as I know, this government is going to implement, as a legal security measure, then I'm really starting to fool. I have not registered that a single actor in this country, whether it's the Association of Lawyers or the Association of Judges, or anyone other than the Center Party, thinks that having even more courts with even fewer professionals and even less room for specialization and division of duties will provide better legal certainty. It's just the Center Party that means it. Then you can choose if you think it's the Center Party that knows best how to strengthen the rule of law in this country, by reversing a necessary reform, or if it's all the others who are actually implementing the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e944	The representative was in the previous government, and I noticed that there was a suggestion from it to cut a whole 1.5 cent in the electricity charge, in a situation where the electricity prices had been going to heaven for a long time, both in the West, in the East and in the South. So the former government was asked to cut the electricity charge by 1.5 cents. The question is quite simply: does the representative believe that there is a proposal that someone in Norway had labeled at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e949	Yeah, they all wanted to label it in Norway, but they wanted to label it to a little bit, because this isn't about a big cut. The same applies to the additional increase in the electricity charge proposed by the new government, and in particular to what the Progress Party proposes, because when one is to implement the type of cut for absolute all, regardless of the economy, regardless of how much power a consumer consumes, it becomes rather small each, almost regardless of how much a cut. For this reason, in cooperation with the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, we have today presented a new proposal in the light of the rather acute situation that has arisen in the last few weeks, where we propose a much more targeted system. We make sure that all students now get $1,000 to help pay their current bills, and that all households with $12 million. kr in the total income or below is SEK 750 per household member, to help with the current calculation now in winter. It's focused. It'll have an emblem. I would therefore urge the Progress Party, if their own proposals do not have multiples, to support our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e954	Over eight blue years, the free legal aid scheme has in practice disappeared. As a single person, an income of less than NOK 246 000 per year is required in order to be able to obtain professional help on a legal matter. It can be a matter of help in matters like the owner of the house trying to throw you out on no basis, that you are in an tainted child distribution case, or that you want to complain about a Nav decision. During the time of the Left in power, the income limit has not increased by a single penny. In addition, some of the last Solberg government and the Left were on their way out of government offices, cutting 3.3 million. kr to the voluntary legal aid schemes, such as JURK, Jussbuss and Gate Jurist. My question is, is it that the Left does not see the excruciating need to strengthen the provision of justice in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e959	Well, that's what the need sees Left, and it's not that, over the eight years we've been working on creating a budget, there's a cut in the provision of legal aid. On the contrary, now more money is spent on legal aid than one did eight years ago. But there have been different offensives over the years that have been involved in cutting free legal aid, for example. from the Right-Forward Party Government as set. It stopped the Left in the Storing and strengthened the regimes. But I agree with the Dutch representative that legal aid is still not good enough. That was the background for us, when we got into the government, putting down the legal aid selection, which was given an important mandate to look at how these schemes will work well in the future. I still agree that we need to collect more permissions, but it is probably also that one should give better priority, because there are large amounts of legal aid that go to the area today, which could possibly go to other areas instead. I want to end by saying the same thing as I said in the line-up with the Center Party, and it is that I thought it was good that SV now got into the agreement that one should strengthen the legal remedies. It's positive, and it's nice to the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e964	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e969	The fact that I can at all stand on this pulpit today is thanks to the invisible effort of countless people – everything from those who have built the pulpit to the VA engineers who keep me supplied with drinking water during the day. Taking care of this network is so important to us that many people are awake at night every time we have concerns about changes that happen to the economic system. But all of this rests on a deeper network we also have to be aware of. We often ask each other, what are we going to live on in the future? This question has an answer that doesn't change: we're going to live on what we've always lived on – fresh air, clean water and healthy food. We forget that the prerequisite that we have an economic network at all to worry about is that we have a well-functioning ecological network throughout it, where plants and algae make the air we breathe, and insects and micro-organisms provide the food we eat. This thrashing network is now about to slide. What do we do in this room to save nature, our very basis of life? Well, in this budgetary process it seems that the main operation is first to take out, and then take back 120 million. kr for forest protection. We have been given the confidence of the people to take care of their future; we can do better than this. Yesterday we presented the Environment Party of the Greens' Alternative Budget, where we show how an actual rescue for nature can look. And yes, we spend billions on nature because it's responsible money to invest in our common life base. We have to realize that, in our eagerness to subdue nature, we have forgotten that we are overstepping this vital network. We in the Greens will simply introduce the principle that building down and destroying nature will cost money. We also show that it is fully possible to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 80 pst. by 2030, so we can spend our time discussing the best measures rather than discussing whether it's going to go from one year to the next at all. What does this have to say for the individual? How had life for a person in Norway looked like the Greens set the budget? When you start your life, your parents get good help to accept you. We strengthen the one-time benefit by NOK 9 000 at birth and adoption, we give your parents four weeks extra parental leave and keep the cash support. With more playgrounds, car-free streets and heart zones around the schools, we make your childhood freer and safer. We give you cleaner air by prioritizing bicycles, corridors and public transport over more car traffic and motorways. At school, your teachers get more time to focus on you as we open up more practical and varied school education and reduce a probationary and control regime. Your school life is getting healthier, we're strengthening the school health service, we're giving you free fruit and vegetables and we're gradually introducing free school food, and we're giving you the leisure card back. Thanks to the great commitment of the Greens to mental health, you will receive both prevention and early help, including: with a strengthened offer in municipalities and several daily places in mental health protection. If you have problems with alcohol, society will meet you with dignity and care over persecution and punishment. If you are in the health service, you can benefit from the fact that the Greens will give professionals time and confidence back, start a reversal of government’s red tape and efficiency reform and provide alternatives to the health business model. The capacity of the healthcare system shall be increased, in particular in the intensive care units, but also in other parts of the system that give us lack of capacity in pandemics. The teeth are finally considered part of the body. One of the biggest grips in our alternative budget is climate reward. Instead of paying only environmental taxes to the country, this reward scheme, where more is paid for air travel and fossil fuels, is awarded to everyone again, so that it pays to choose environmentally friendly in everyday life – win-win both for you and for the environment. This is an arrangement we proposed for the first time at Stortinget in 2016, but this year we are stepping it up and distributing a total of 21.4 billion. kr in the climate reward to go to each individual resident in Norway, which is approximately equivalent. $4,000 a year for every Northman. More and more, you will be able to fill your life with what matters most to most people: time for yourself, friends and family, rather than more and more job pressure and self-consumption. We are investigating shorter working hours and pay schemes to be ready to face the changes of the future with new solutions that can be tested. When life begins to go to the end, it can be felt confident that all municipal health and care institutions will be happy for the Elderly, that welfare technology will be pursued, and that nutrition and activity for the elderly and caregivers will have increased support. That's the good, green life in practice. How are we going to create such a good life without breaking the limits of nature? We in the Greens are in favour of a fundamental system change. We have to consume less, we have to live more. Circular economy over use and throw economy is a key word. In business, we are going to reuse, repair, invest in recycling materials, zero-emission maritime transport, liquid sea winds, CO2 management, innovation and priority investment, and significantly increased access to risk capital for green industries through Nysnø and Investinor. Bionova is established and finances such things as biocarbons, alternatives to soya and animal feed and food production from algae. We process more wood in Norway, biogas is to be invested in, and not least culture, experiences and volunteering. How do we finance such a big investment in the green economy? Yes, we are introducing a green conversion tax on oil and gas, which ensures that the funds that would otherwise be used for increased activity on the base go instead to green measures on the mainland. Right now there are six to seven times more investments in oil and gas than in all the other industries combined. We charge 43 kroner per barrel of oil equivalents and modify Section 4 of the State Pension Fund Act to make the fee possible. This levy will not increase the level of activity in the economy, precisely because the activity in the oil sector will decline, while investments in sustainable industry will rise. A critical point of the budgetary unit presented is the management of the situation of public transport. The collective industry is in a critical situation, and the budgetary agreement that we are dealing with today only exposes the cuts in the offer for a few months. This means that departures can disappear, especially on weekends and evenings. It primarily affects those who depend on the bus, boat and track to and from work at an unfavourable time, such as nurses, cleaning workers and transport workers. People with low income who cannot afford a car are the ones that are hit hardest. This is a lost opportunity. Instead of keeping things going for just a few months, we should really be working on building the public transport of the future that is ready to meet a new everyday after the Korona. In our alternative state budget, we propose a total package of 5.1 billion. NOK to cut prices and further develop the offer throughout the country. The prices are going down by 20 pst. And we want people to be able to subtract monthly cards from the tax. To take an example, the price of a monthly card for one that commutes between Lørenskog and Oslo will go down from around NOK 1 400 to NOK 1 127, and with the tax credit, the monthly card will in practice cost NOK 879. In addition, we believe that family tickets should do it for free to bring the children on trains and buses. On one point, we can rejoice that the Storting has actually read our budget and with great enthusiasm today is discussing the proposal to re-distribute the state's income from the stream shopping back to people. When the government takes in super profit because of increased income on electricity, we want the money paid right back to people. We have to do this this year, but also in the future, because power prices are going to vary in the future as well. That's why we're proposing a solution now, for 2022, while we're going to have a new model that automatically smoothes out unreasonably the electricity price, as well as ensuring that it pays to bet on energy saving. I'm taking this up on our proposals and adding that we're going to vote subsidiaryly for a number of proposals to get a cash payment to people to cover high power costs. We think it is positive that so many propose concrete action, and we will do our best to contribute to more of these being given a majority, if possible. We notice that the government parties do not want to make a specific decision today, but rather ask the government to come back with a matter. A promise about a future matter in Stortinget means little to those who are currently struggling with the electricity bill. We in the Greens expect the government to act quickly, so that those who work the most get clear answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e999	The representative Kristoffer Robin Haug has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1006	I hear that the representative Haug is in charge of strutting an industry that today contributes to the creation of value and jobs along the coast. Petroleum industry is also the industry that has both the competence and the muscles we need to lead in the green shift. As a representative from the north, I often hear forward-looking business managers in the districts clearly state that predictable framework conditions are a prerequisite for taking risks and investing in renewable industries. My question is: How does the representative Haug feel that it is possible to maintain all the skilled professionals and a supplier industry that is crucial for coastal settlements in the districts when they are in practice calling for the closure of the oil and gas industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1013	I thank you for the question and remember that the oil business is now exploding on a Norwegian base as a result of the incredibly generous oil tax package, while we have to realize that the world around us is at full speed out of the oil age. The new government in Germany has said that in a few years they will try to drastically reduce their use of fossil fuels — Norwegian gas as well. We believe that we need to rust up business for the future, and that it would be an incredibly short-term solution not to realize that the jobs that are currently inside oil and gas will be threatened within a short time, as most of our customers say they do not want our product in the near future. We believe that such a conversion package will create the new jobs for the very wise minds who are currently working in industries that have a short time horizon ahead of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1020	One of Norway’s most pot-ready and concrete industrial projects to cut emissions could have its final solution with this state budget. It is a plan to build the first industrial plant in Norway to recover used wood on Braskereidfoss in the Inland. So when one day this pulpit is to be replaced, it will not be burned, but will become new, modern industrial products. In precisely Våler municipality, where this industry is located, there was 0.76 pst at the staging election. by the citizens who voted in favour of the Greens/Greens/EFA. What the industry is saying is that the Greens have a policy that much resembles the Right and Left policies, because it increases the social and geographical differences between people. I wonder if the Greens can answer this question: Is it not a paradox that those who in practice make the biggest contributions to cutting emissions in Norway stay away from the Green Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1030	I thank you for the challenge. Interestingly, the very measure that the Sandtrøen representative is raising is just such a measure that we agree that we need to invest in the future. It is easy to blame for the inability to produce the nuances of your policy, every time you make a poor choice or it's a bad opinion poll, but here I believe I have presented a budget that shows in detail how the Green Party can make everyday social better for everyone, but also better for business. I think there are elements in the government's policy that are about investing in new businesses for the green shift, which we can also agree to cooperate on, and so show that we are united on many of these good solutions, even though there are parts of the policy we disagree very much on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1035	For the Right, it is important that the ambitions and targets of Glasgow are translated into good policy. The energy crisis we experience shows that Europe will be dependent on Norwegian gas for a long time to replace, for example. the more pre-eminent coal power. The head of the IEA, Fatih Birol, said on 30 November, i.e. just a few days ago, that the world needs Norwegian oil and gas, even in a 1.5 degree perspective. But the world might need less than one thing today, he said. The Green Party uses Birol and IEA as a truth witness in its argument that Norway must stop the search for oil and gas. When the IEA manager now expresses himself differently, my question about the Environment Party is the Greens will change their policy in this area, when we see that there is a huge demand for Norwegian gas, and that there are sky-high prices, which also affect the electricity price at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1044	Thank you for the question. One basic assumption you have to examine is how fast we believe this conversion is going to go. We have arranged for the Norwegian oil and gas industry to be built down over a 15-year perspective. The question is, if we're going to succeed in the climate goals, shouldn't there be some kind of maximum limit for how long we're going to succeed in developing green industries and thus no longer have to lean on fossil industries? Yes, of course, during that period – also with the Environmental Party of Greens policy – we will have activity on Norwegian base, extract Norwegian oil and gas, but not build it up as a new bet industry far beyond the time horizon, which is the nearest decade. We believe that this is in line with both the IEA's policy and a good food and industrial development policy for Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1049	The most important thing in our welfare policy must be that we provide good services. Regarding its own policy, the MDG writes that ‘private actors can provide greater diversity and quality in some areas and be a positive complement’. So my question to the representative is, what does the representative think about the Workers' Party-Center Party verbal proposal to investigate how commercial operations can be phased out in welfare? And does the representative agree that the result could be poorer services for the inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1054	I thank you for the question, which attracts many important shades in our welfare system and especially since health policy, where this is often a current issue. It is quite right, as the representative points out, that the private and non-profit sector is often an important and sometimes critical supplement to ensure these welfare services – in critical situations and in areas where we need a supplement. So being these actors besides the complex ecosystem that Norwegian well-being is, we think we can be a potentially worse solution than having many cards to play on. Of course, we are clear that the public must be the backbone of the welfare system, and we must be careful not to make arrangements where some private actors compete and thereby dilute this system, but it is absolutely important to have space for breadth and diversity of actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1063	Europe is experiencing an energy crisis, and Europeans can be happy that the MDG has not steered Norwegian oil and energy policies, as the crisis would have been significantly worse. Today, we are providing a desperate Europe with energy-rich gas – a Europe that has led a policy in the spirit of the MDG, where climate policy has thwarted energy policy and security of supply. Today's situation, with sky-high prices and heavy consumption, is well like music in the ears of the MDGs when they said last September, when the crisis had already begun, that they wanted to increase the electricity charge and wanted higher electricity prices to reduce consumption. In addition, they wanted to send more power out of the country. Maybe you don't want today's prices, but I wonder how much higher MDG thinks the power price should be?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1072	First of all, I would like to point out that the reason why we have a crisis at all, with high electricity prices and high material costs, is that during the Coronapandemic, people in the entire Western world had just less opportunity to spend money and resources on time and experiences, thus increasing material consumption. So there's an increase in material consumption that's caused the factories to have to produce more and therefore use more resources, more raw materials and more energy, that push up commodity prices. So the main root cause of increased costs, both for electricity and materials, is increased consumption, which is the major underlying issue of the Green Party's desire to survive. In the case of electricity taxes and electricity costs, our measure is precisely to ensure that this functions as a climate reward scheme. We don't want to remove incentives to pay off installing energy-saving measures in households, but we want to share the money back again, to most people, so that it doesn't hit those who have the least, and that you actually get money back instead of going in as taxes to the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1079	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1084	Norway is the world's best country to live in, according to the UN. I'm proud to have been part of non-socialist cooperation in the last eight years that has helped to provide a good basis for further value creation, for safeguarding well-being and for a green transition. We've become less oil dependent, and we've become more competitive now than we were in 2013, and we managed to bring down unemployment quickly after two major crises – the coronary pandemic and the fall in oil prices. We have prioritised investment in knowledge and good and sustainable framework conditions for value creation across the country. Not least, we have prioritised forward-looking investments in family and growth. Our ability to succeed as adults is influenced by the beginning of life. The earlier we put in the effort, the better the return will be later. People's work is our most important resource. And the most powerful investment in people is investing in the development of small children, as prominent researchers and economists say. That's why I'm proud of everything we've done over the years in our government. I am proud of the increase in child welfare by NOK 8,200 for the youngest children, almost triple the one-time benefit for parents without parental leave, and the bet on free core time in kindergarten for families with poor advice. And I could still. Much is good in the red-green budgetary unity for next year when I look at it with the eyes of the Christian People's Party. There are many good bets in districts, social welfare and distribution. But there are also many question marks and disappointments. I am disappointed with the tax system, with increased taxes on work that are suitable for weakening the value added and the basis for well-being. There is also a major question mark in the red-green budget when they are less willing than we are to use the most important instrument in climate policy, namely environmental taxes. It's strange that a government that says it prioritises ordinary people, chooses to wind up the holiday card from next year. The voucher of NOK 2 000 is mostly valid for young people living in families with low or ordinary incomes. I'm afraid a lot of kids now don't get the opportunity to participate in the corps or at football or the leisure activities they want. That makes me sad. The vision with the card was that we should finally do something with those young people and kids who unfortunately are not allowed to participate. Next year, one third of them would get NOK 2,000. They could sit in the classroom and discuss what activity they were going to engage in – everyone with a certainty that they had the money, and everyone with a collective, careful pressure on those who don't get it from home, to participate in social activities, which we know are important to combat exclusion. With all due respect, we've tried to strengthen sport. We have tried to strengthen non-governmental organisations. We have tried different measures. We didn't succeed. This was a new proposal which unfortunately cannot see the light of day. On top of this the government cuts in cash support. They remove all grants for co-operation measures and abandon the proposal for increased parental deductions, which would give the most relief to those families with the worst advice. The red-green have, once again, failed in family policy. At the same time, large sums of money are spent on a small targeted measure such as a reduction in the electricity charge, which gives the greatest relief to those who have large houses and cabins with heating cables in the driveway. Instead, a quick cash payment is needed for households who have problems paying the high electricity bills, as we, the Right and the Left propose today. The red-greens propose a series of cuts in the non-governmental sector: cut in the capital grant to incubators, cut to private kindergartens, remove the grant to private church buildings and halve the tax deduction scheme for voluntary donations. I am surprised and disappointed that the Central Party did not stand up anymore for the voluntary and non-profit sector. The budget presented by the Solberg government has better priorities. We help those who were hit by the crisis, and facilitate new green jobs, without increasing taxes as much as the government does. We give priority to the growth of children and better care for the elderly. And we're proposing more than half a billion dollars more than the red-green parties to assist the world's poorest, because more is needed than ever in the middle of the pandemic and climate crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1112	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1117	The Christian People's Party is clear that both time-stretched and tight economy makes everyday life for families with children both pressurised and hectic. At the same time, the Christian People's Party in government has increased SFO and kindergarten prices, cut into children's spectacle support, cut in support of dental regulation for children with crooked teeth and cut in the child supplement for decapitated persons, which averages 50,000 per year. So the government has been responsible for the large and unsocial cuts and increased expenditure in several areas for families with children. The leisure card, for which the representative Robstad is so busy, has given some children up to NOK 2000 per year, with a limitation on the activities that could be included in that scheme. The Christian People's Party is occupied by families with children and freedom of choice. What does the representative, Ropstad, think the families of children would have chosen?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1123	I am absolutely sure that they would have chosen the Christian People's Party. Unfortunately, this budget will mean that there is no further increase in child welfare, of which I am very proud, and which I mentioned: $8,200 for the youngest children. The leisure card: Yes, it is true that not everyone has got it, but the plan was to spend 1.7 billion. NOK to be able to give to all children and young people NOK 2000 per year. I am responding to the story that the representative has, because I totally disagree. In the case of SFO, and in the case of kindergarten, we have conducted a targeted policy that has made it cheaper, even free of charge, for those who have the lowest income, and I think that also means the most to them. The children's supplement: it's not right that we removed it. We put a roof so that one would not get more than 100 pst. of what you had before you were ill, paid in child supplements. I think that is a reasonable and good solution. The Christian People's Party had great visions for the families on. Unfortunately, we are not able to implement them from the government, but we are going to be impatient, and we are going to propose constructive input to the government, which I hope they will support.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1132	I think it is very nice that the Christian People's Party is concerned with child welfare, and as the representative himself says, it was approx. $8,000 a year. I would like to remind you that investigations have shown that the child supplement for disabled people represents an actual loss of an average of NOK 50 000 per year. Then I'm going to ask again, when we talk about this with freedom of choice and look at the cuts, because then, babysitting prices have increased, support for the core time for those in kindergartens who have the worst income, but at the same time you have cut 50 000 a year for those who are disabled and have children: what do you really think the voters would have wanted – a free time card of NOK 2,000 a year, for some children, or actually being able to get universal relief in their everyday lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1139	The President reminds me that the speech is to be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1144	I think it's interesting to listen to, because I remember that when we were working on the disability reform in 2011, the Workers' Party's proposal was to change the child supplement, just as the Right Party government did in its time, that is, to change it so that one got it paid on the same line as the day money, and a much lower amount. At the time, it was SV who saved it, just like SV did a change in this budget, by removing the ceiling on how much one was paid, that one did not get paid more in the wrong way than one had before, i.e. a 100 pst. limit. So that story I think is very strange. As I said, we had a targeted policy when it was for kindergarten, and when it was for the SFO, to ensure free core time, free offers for those who have the least. I also hope that this government will follow up, because it is good to lower the price of kindergarten, but it does not benefit those who have the least income. I hope that the representative will remember to give targeted action to those who have little.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1151	One of the areas where I know that the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have a common commitment is the care of the weakest among us. Among other things, I think we agree that people with disabilities will get the assistance they need to live a free and independent life. That is why I am disappointed that the Christian People's Party also chooses to cut down on this budget in the system of resource-intensive services. These are services for people with very special needs for help, people with disabilities, mental retardation, drug problems and people with mental disorders. The Christian People's Party has helped year after year to increase the entry point of the scheme with a total of NOK 256 000 more than the price increase. This corresponds to a cut of 1.8 billion. kr. Is it eight years in companies with the Right Party and the Advance Party that, after leaving the government, you also continue with unsocial cuts that hit the most vulnerable among us?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1158	Fortunately, this cut does not affect anyone, and if someone does, then the municipalities, because it is the municipalities that get this compensation. The services are entitled to be provided by resource-intensive users. So I mean, and I've been thinking for a long time, that we should do even more to find a better way to organise it, so that the municipalities have good incentives to do the problems in an even better way. But to contribute to the story of history: I remember very well that the Center Party, when they last sat in government, also cut – or increased the point of impact – so the Center Party has a history of having cut in this post itself. With regard to the view of the Christian People's Party, we believe that it should be at this level. We have not had a great desire to do this cut, but it has been part of the arrangement. So it's the municipalities that get that grant, and fortunately users get a good offer anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1165	After the resignation of the government presented its budget, the media used words such as ‘an unsocial budget’ and ‘an unsocial profile’. A good society is often defined by being able to take care of those who have the least. That's why my starting point is that you cut in fractions. The services of those in need of resources for municipalities are cut. One also cuts in the pace that the Progress Party has been involved in towards the minimum pensioners. Then my question is, is it that the Christian People's Party is proud that Norwegian minimum pensioners live below the EU poverty line?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1172	No, and that's why we've been busy raising the minimum pensioners in a lot of ways. I think it's $12,000 that the Christian People's Party contributed to, and we, together with the Progress Party, have also promised it even more in other budgets. I think that is a further escalation that is important, because it is right, as the representative says, that many of them live below the poverty line and are in need of financial support. For the Christian People's Party, it was important to give priority to lone minimum pensioners, we have done so several times, but I would also point to another measure, namely security housing, which was one of the things that the outgoing government proposed to support. I think some of the important thing in the care of the elderly is to make sure that you can get a better offer earlier, so that you get a different type of dwelling rather than have to go to a hospital. I think that would have prevented more, it would have given more quality of life, and it would also have been more reasonable for the municipalities. So here we also have a lot to do, and together with the Progress Party, I think we got quite a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1181	I would first of all like to thank the representative, Mr Roppstad, for the recognition of the SV's recently concluded budgetary agreement. I see a Christian People's Party as a party where one is occupied by the weakest – also a town of robbers. My question is, does not the Roppstad and the Christian People's Party understand that having a need test of measures against young people seems stigmatizing to families with poor advice? And how could the Christian People's Party be involved in putting forward a budget where one did not demand to reverse the unsocial cuts, such as spectacle support and children's supplements?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1188	Thank you – I want to give recognition, because there are many good things in the budget, and I support that. So I guess we spend most of our time on what we're dissatisfied with, but that's what I want to acknowledge. The children's supplement I think I did, and I think that's an important change from what often goes back to the rhetoric. In the case of the spectacle stand, I think it's quite okay and nice that it is being reversed. There is a system that needs to be looked at, and I see that the SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre also think is right, so that one does not necessarily have to go all the way back to the model that was. That is why we were also committed to an evaluation of that measure. I would also like to say that I think it is very good, what SV has done in terms of child welfare, that it should be kept out of social assistance payments. I hope the same applies to housing support, cash support and other types of arrangements, because that also means that the child-rescue increase that we are very proud of, and that I hope SV will also push forward, will reach those who are also going to social assistance, and that means some of the most vulnerable kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1197	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1203	I have been sitting and following the debate today, and it is always an exciting privilege to do so. There is one thing I think we should just reflect a little when we have a financial debate in the Norwegian Stortinget, 50 years after Trygve Bratteli was opening up Ekofisk. The only discussion that has been on oil and gas policy so far has been a round with the Greens. In this budget, it's 322 billion. kr, which actually indirectly comes from the opening that Trygve Bratteli did 50 years ago. In total taxes on income and wealth, there are 319 billion. kr. Just to put it in perspective: if you take it by head in Norway, it is 60,000 kroner that we get thanks to the fact that you first found the oil and gas resources, that you managed them in a wise and good way and created value creation, and that you also set up the State pension fund abroad. It gives us, as elected representatives, both you who sit in the Grand Duchy and us as governors, a completely different opportunity than any other society. When we were going to settle the budget this year, it was important for us to see if we should phase in even more oil money, or if we shouldn't. So the Center Party, the Workers' Party and the SV chose not to do that, because we were busy making sure that we were able to manage this wealth in a way that allows the next generation to enjoy it as much as the generation of which we are part. We have also chosen not to do that because we know that if you phase in just more and more oil money, there will be further pressure on interest, and that creates challenges not least for families with young children and others with high debt. But what was our priority when the Workers' Party-Center Party government was allowed to make an additional proposition, thanks to the support of the people and the mandate it gave? Well, it was to pursue policies for smaller differences between people, both geographically and socially. It was the main mantra when we were going to put in place a new economic policy for Norway: how can we conduct an economic policy and a financial policy that makes there become less differences socially and geographically? And we've done it quite systematically throughout the entire budget. Let me first take the geographical dimension, which no other party has chosen to lift in this debate until now. We have chosen to use approx. 4 B.C.E. kr to balance geographical differences in Norway – a strong initiative. If you're dependent on ferries, you'll notice that next year it'll be a little bit lower ferry fare. Or take those who live in the smallest coastal communities: they will notice that there will be free ferries. We've spent money on it, and we're going to implement it. It was a priority that the Workers' Party and the Center Party had, and that SV supported. For those who depend on broadband, Right, Christian People's Party and Left chose to cut. We're increasing, because we think it should be equal access to fiber and the kind of digital technology whether you live in a small place or a big place. We look at it in racial protection, we look at it in the police, we look at it in higher education, we look at it in health companies, we look at it in how we distribute the money to the municipal sector: it's a very focused idea of how to have as good a offer to live in a small place as if you live in a large place – how we can develop the whole of Norway. It is also seen for those who are in the fishing industry, where we are betting more on ports and fairways, and we are also taking action to manage the green shift in shipping. There are many good measures that strengthen our coast. We are also apprehended in Norwegian food production on land, where there is a completely different investment. 1 billion. on various measures to increase food production around the whole of Norway. Then we have the social dimension. With this tax bill, 82 pst. It is noted by the population that taxes are either lower or equal next year compared to this year. So the large, large majority – all with income below SEK 750,000 – will get lower taxes next year than they have this year. It's a clear profile. Then we can go through the list. Now, together with SV, we've decided to: reintroduce a better system of spectacle support remove the shortening of social assistance; have a holiday supplement for those who have become unemployed and have had it extra tough do what we did with redundancy money. increase by 300 million. kr for particularly resource-intensive services In addition, child-responsive, long-term job creation, 1000 more places of action and a number of measures that can make more people with an economically demanding situation feel better next year than they do this year. So when you see how the Center Party, the Workers' Party and the SV together have prioritised these resources, there's a budget for smaller differences between people and smaller differences between different parts of the country. There is a safe use of oil money and predictability that creates jobs and value creation in all parts of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1251	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1256	One of the reasons why the Minister of Finance manages to keep up with the same oil money usage as the Solberg government is that he has not removed the ABE cut of $1.9 billion. NOK 2022. It is a cut that both the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV have argued strongly against in the opposition, but they have nevertheless chosen to maintain it in the budget and the additional proposition for 2022. In the budget agreement, one further increases with a flat cut of 104 million. kr for the 01 items for all state enterprises – in reality, there is a new ABE cut. In total, this is about the same as the reduction in the electricity charge for the period January to March. I have heard representatives from the Central Party who believe that they have too short a time to reverse the ABE cut, but they have obviously had enough time to create a new ABE cut. My question is: Is there a lack of a better alternative to containment, or has it simply become too difficult to find cover in budgetary negotiations, which means that one must keep the ABE cut from the Solberg administration?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1263	As I'm sure you've seen, we've gone very critically into public spending, and, as the local representative points out, we've done new cuts, for example. in those companies that have spent a great deal of money on the purchase of information and organisational services, i.e. consulting services, because we want – both in the Workers' Party and in the Centre Party – to think about how to best use public money. Some of the things we want to cut down on are the purchase of consulting services to the state – therefore the extra cut – especially consulting services that deal with public relations, organisational counselling and the kind of services. We want to cut it. In sum, we've cut $60 million. kr with the budgetary settlement currently in place. I think it is wise to keep a critical searchlight on public money, so that the most important thing can be given priority. We have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1268	I agree, to the extent that it makes sense to have a critical look at public money use, with Minister of Finance Schlagsvold Vedum. So it's nice for the Minister of Finance to start talking about a few less consultants. What this is about is a significant efficiency and red tape measure of 1.9 billion. NOK 2022, which the Minister of Finance strongly argued against when he was in opposition, but which he now chooses to retain. I'll ask the question again: Will the new government, with the Workers' Party and the Centre, continue to keep that kind of cut forward, as it has been committed as a significant part of the funding for the 2022 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1275	We in the Center Party have always been concerned about how we can best use public money. Of course, in the Workers' Party-Center Party government, we will take welfare measures in the state budget. Where can we make cuts that allow us to prioritize resources for well-being, for example. to increase the support for glasses, which we have now prioritised? Then a public authority should not think that now no efficiency requirements are being imposed, demands on how to spend money as efficiently as possible. There's going to be strict demands on that. That is also what we have said in the Hurdal platform: we need to look more specifically at where we can save money – just to be able to give priority to funds, for example. more nurses, more child-restraint workers and other parts of the public sector where we want to grow. This is a common task for everyone, whether you're in government or sitting on the Stortinget. It is essential to keep a critical eye on those parts of the public sector that we think are growing too much, so that we can give priority to police, courts, defence, hospitals, health – the basic public tasks that we have prioritised in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1280	I don't think I get an answer to my question until the 2023 budget, but I can take it back then. Another theme: The government has also cut 270 million in its additional proposal. kr in the entry for smaller régionalisation investments. In the context of the budgetary agreement, a further 10 million were cut. kr. This is an item used to repair existing roads, to facilitate walking and cycling, targeted road safety measures – measures I have believed and understood that the Centre Party believes it makes sense to implement them. In practice, the cut means that fewer projects will be launched and implemented in 2022, as confirmed by the government in the additional proposal. It's probably also a signal that transportation is not so important to this government. My question is: Does the Minister of Finance really think it makes sense to cut 280 million. kr to smaller national road investments, with the consequences it has for major remedial projects and road safety, and is this in line with the policy of the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1289	Now the representative only chooses to take part in the transport budget and what is important to be able to bind Norway together, for example. we have taken strong action in the case of ferries – bring down the ferry prices, get free of charge. It is very important for the part of the country that the representative knows very well, More and Romesdal is one of Norway's largest ferries. We've prioritised broadband, we think it's important that we build it out. And we have priority racial protection, that it should be safe to drive on the roads. So when you look at the sum of measures that we have in terms of broadband, ferries and race protection, and the transport budget that we have – and that we put out money to start planning the road and rail connections to Voss – it's a good budget and a very good transport budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1294	Not one word mentions the Minister of Finance about the current situation in which the country is now facing. There are many who follow this discussion that are now simply horrifying until the power bill comes and do not know how to get the ends to meet – whether they are disabled, retired or have other reasons. Not one word mentions the finance minister about what he intended to do for them. I record that he boasts of these ears he has reduced the fee to next year, but it helps very little when the price has now increased by several kroner. The finance minister has said that there is no miracle cure. Well, it actually does. The size can choose, here today, to send a message to the government to give a cash amount to all households so that we can get out the money that can help people who are now afraid that Christmas will come. Can the Minister of Finance assure that there will now be measures that will give money before Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1307	Listening to Sylvi Listhaug, after having been responsible for the power policy in Norway for eight years, is totally unimaginable. When Tord Lien became the Council of State, the party's first statement was: Tord Lien wants more expensive power. It was the programme statement of the Progress Party. Then the Progress Party chose to change the law so that it would be easier to build foreign tables. It was the policy of the Progress Party. When Siv Jensen was Minister of Finance, she increased the fees more than any other Minister of Finance has ever done in terms of electricity. The oil and energy minister has also been called Sylvi Listhaug. She took no action to bring down the electricity prices, only implemented the policies that Siv Jensen and Tord Lien put in place. That's why it was so important for us in the Central Party as soon as we got power, to start to reverse the misguided policy that the Advance Party and the Right had pursued for eight years, and to reduce the electricity charge by 47 pst. from 1 January at the first opportunity. Of course it's the first step on a new course. The progressing party said when they got power, that they wanted a higher power price – they got a higher power price. This government says we want lower power prices, and we're starting now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1313	I don't think anyone who listens to this debate, believes that it helps some things that Battle violence Vedum for the hundred and ninety-one times stands and reads out what has been in a matter in a medium. For them, this is about bloody seriousness. It's about whether they can afford to pay their bills, whether they get the money to pay for Christmas gifts to their kids. That's what this is all about. We have now been sitting for weeks and negotiating a budget and coming back without a single measure that can help all those who are now in a very difficult situation. To ask the government to sit down and look at measures today – it is many weeks too late. It is not new that these prices have been high, they have been for a long time. That is why I would like to ask again: what does the Minister of Finance intend to do for all those who are now sitting there freezing and worried about whether they can pay the bills?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1320	I understand that Sylvi Listhaug finds it difficult to talk about what she herself has done when she has had power for eight years, for example. It was the Progress Party at Terje Søviknes that made sure that the Norwegian big business shifted power to ACER, ensuring that more energy policy is managed from the EU. It was the Progress Party that was the architect behind, and they had the oil and energy minister. It is a fact, and then people know what they get when a vote on the Progress Party: more market, more EU governance and higher charges. Now, when the Central Party is running the policy, the first thing we do is put the charges on electricity at 47 pst. for January, February and March because we believe that this is right. That's what we're using, and it's going to be adopted tonight. It becomes reality, and it's very important that it becomes reality. And we made sure, of course, to increase the housing support in the autumn, to help those who have the most demanding economical. Now when we say that we want to do more, that's because we want to do more. But what was the problem with the Progress Party when they ran was that they wanted to make the flow more expensive. We want to make the flow cheaper, and therefore the fees go down tonight when we get a majority for this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1327	I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for his contributions and for his good cooperation through the budgetary negotiations. First of all, a small comment on the introduction, related to the contribution of the oil industry: I share the very highest reality picture, but it is interesting to note the news that came from the tax haven today that the revenue from the oil companies to the community would have been much larger if it had not been for the tax cuts the oil companies got through the petroleum tax package last spring, which the large number decided. Another question relates to compensation for increased environmental taxes. We are going to have increasing environmental taxes in the years to come. We have to do that to achieve the climate goals. The Swedish Government and the government have now agreed that the government should better assess the redistributive compensation for the increasing environmental taxes. I wonder if the Council of State can reflect a little bit about what such redistributive compensation might be, which does not weaken the environmental impact. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1334	We must try to stay on time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1339	There were two elements here. I can take oil and gas first. If you look at the national budget, for 2022 it was calculated a cash flow from the oil and gas sector – when it was calculated earlier in the autumn, there was a completely different oil and gas price – of 277 billion. NOK, if I do not remember correctly. It was the income that the Norwegian community was planning to get directly from the oil and gas industry next year. It's a huge amount of money. If the oil and gas prices are as high as they are now, they will be higher than what was calculated earlier in the harvest. We will see that the next time we discuss the state budget. So to the redistributive grip on environmental taxes: what is important for the Centre Party, and what has been important now between the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and SV, is that when we do environmental action, it does not have to go beyond those who have the least. That's really the whole point, because otherwise we'll create unrest and distrust of climate policy. We must have people with us, not against us, and now, of course, we are going to investigate, in line with the proposal that is adopted later today, in a good and proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1346	It is very good to say about the government and the SV's budgetary settlement, but it may sometimes seem that politicians don't understand that a household budget doesn't work exactly the same way as a state budget. A household with a tight economy cannot pay current bills with cheaper SFOs in the autumn. This government had a historic chance to finance well-being by taxing the richest. Instead, the government sends parts of the bill to the electricity customers in the form of flat fees. In addition, from 1 January there will be new charges that will zero the cut-outs in the electricity charge. My question to the Council of State is whether this helps to reduce the economic differences socially and geographically.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1351	Thank you for a good challenge. Firstly, we cut the flat charges on electricity from January, February and March by 47 pst. And the rest of the year with 9 pst. It's a real cut and a completely different line than the Advance Party and the Right have adopted together with the Christian People's Party and the Left in the last eight years. A median family – I can take one from Hamar, which is close to where I live – with median income and where one commuter will get about. 12 700 kroner lower costs with the grips we make on taxes and charges, if you have one child in kindergarten. Then I haven't gone on so much, because I could also add SFO, I haven't. But if you take a pretty common family, which has a normal life and median income, and lives in a very nice city called Hamar, they get $1,700 lower next year than they have this year, if this scheme is adopted, and that's going to be it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1358	I understand I have to go to Hamar. There are many positive welfare measures in this budget, but the cut-offs in the electricity charge are going to be zeroed out of the increase in network rentals and with the change in regulation that comes on 1 January, which is a kind of rush-time charge on electricity – so-called power-based tariffs. What will be done in the long term to stop sending the bill for the welfare of ordinary people at Hamar, in Bergen and elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1365	If a reader reads the Hurdal platform, which we have of course begun to follow up in this budget, we are very clear in terms of fees, that we are very critical of the developments that took place under the Right and the Advance Party, where we were to increase the flat fees. We're in favour of a progressive tax system, i.e. tax on ability. It is the tax policy we are going to pursue in the future – that it is always those who have the strongest back, who are going to take the biggest stock, and those who have a little less income are going to get a lower pressure. That's why we also look at the tax system here at 82 pst. the population will receive lower or equal taxes that they have had this year, while those with the highest incomes and the highest wealth will receive little higher tax. That's what we want and have added to this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1370	It is always exciting to follow budgetary negotiations in the Storting and what comes out of them. Personally, I don't always think it's so exciting to see what a user spends money on, but where one picks up the money. That's what the hard game was – it was probably hard now too. Last week, however, a letter came to the Finance Committee from Minister Trygve Slagsvold Vedum – a happy news. Because it's so expensive stream, and because Statkraft no seems so much money, a fetch 2.3 billion. kr more in exchange for Statkraft next year. Then it was natural to think that the jam could come with targeted measures to help Norwegian electricity customers in the budget unit that came on Monday. But it didn't -- not a penny. The money was rather used to increase long-term public spending – which is probably fine: cheaper dental, cheaper SFO – but it doesn't help power customers. What does the Minister of Finance think about using exceptional temporary revenues to inflate public expenditure permanently, and what does he think Norwegian power customers who are now concerned about the bills seem to like that use of money?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1377	I think Norwegian power customers, like myself, are happy that we now have a government that charges electricity, instead of setting them up. We're going to spend almost three billion dollars. kr on it, while the government of which Sveinung Rotevatern was part, together with the Advance Party and the Right, used every opportunity to increase that kind of fees. They increased in total electricity charges. So for what we've spent the extra money on: it's on glasses -- I think it's good to spend money on it -- it's on eliminating the shortening of social assistance; it's on the fact that those who have been unemployed, especially many because of the corona, are also going to get holiday money -- of course it helps people -- and on increasing housing support for those who have extra challenges. There are a number of cash transfers we spend that money on, precisely because we see that there are many who have challenges. But then we don't do the way the Left did, that they just kept increasing the Norwegian oil money usage.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1385	I would first like to commend the Minister of Finance for having confirmed an important principle, that efficiency and red tape in the public sector should be targeted, adapted and well-planned, rather than those persistent cheese needs, which often go wrong. I would also like to commend the government for investing in the districts – there are many good measures there – and we look forward to the fact that SV has now come up with a principle that climate reward schemes are to be explored. I also appreciate the fact that the Senterpartiet and the Workerspartiet have accepted the proposal well. In our own model of climate reward, we have added to the distribution of the money taken from petrol and diesel a pre-allocation of the districts, twice as much when you live in places where you are likely to have poor access to public transport. Is it a principle that the Minister of Finance is considering including these investigations, to provide additional support to districts through the climate reward scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1392	What we're concerned about is that those who have low income, those who live in a place that makes them have no alternative to, for example. The car is not the one that should be left with the largest bill. Then climate policy becomes somewhat negative, if people's everyday lives get worse. That's why we were so busy also in this budget to reduce the fee shop that Right, Christian People's Party and Left came along, because many depend on the car. That is why we reduced the fees. Then we did other climate action that helps us to create industry, jobs and value creation around the country. For example, we increased support for Enova, we're creating a new system to create more sustainable industry, re-use, that kind of grip. We're betting on hydrogen and on our own new body, called Bionova, to bring down the emissions to Norwegian food production. What is the whole idea of the Workers' Party-Center Party government is that we also need to bring down differences in climate policy, create industry and jobs throughout Norway and see that Norway is like Norway. Many people will also need a car.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1399	The Minister of Finance began his intervention in talking about the large incomes that the State has. If there's something that's been unpredictable for the current year, it's that power prices have increased as much as they've done in the last month. If I don't see completely wrong on the calendar, the Minister of Finance will come with the new aging tomorrow – it is at least right around the corner – and in any case, the Storting will deal with it for the next few weeks. We have our own setup for 2022, which we're discussing now, next year's budget, but there are many who will get a high current bill this month, and not least next. Is it true that the government is getting quite as much revenue because the VAT will give much more revenue when the price is maybe 2 dollars instead of 50 cents? And in that case, does the Minister of Finance agree that we should use some of it in the current budget to give either a cash transfer or a drop in VAT, or other measures already in December? Or won't that be possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1406	As former government councillor Kjell Ingolf Roppstad could at least have had the opportunity to know, it is such that for example. Last year, VAT revenue to the country was lower than thought, but it is not included in the State budget, because it has an average calculation, which means that it should be stable for people, because this varies. For example, when there's an economic downturn, we're still budgeting that the tax and tax revenues don't go down as much as they actually do right then, because we see it over time. It is stabilising in economic policy, and it is one of the strengths of the Norwegian system, that we have so strong muscles that we are able to stabilise policy all the way. Then the government has prioritised within the frameworks we have, and sets down charges on electricity, as opposed to the Christian People's Party, Right, Left and Advance Party did. Therefore, electricity charges are reduced by 2.9 billion. kr next year. So we've notified the Hurdals platform that we want to do more grips to get the power price down, while that government Ropstad was part of, they said they wanted to get the power price up. We want to go the other way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1413	Then the line chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1418	In eight, we have had financial debates in which the Labour Party has fought against right-wing policies that have become reality – against tax cuts for those who have had the most, and unsocial cuts for those who have had the least, against weak municipal and hospital budgets, against centralisation and privatisation, against weak efforts to get people into work and against passive industrial policies. In the fall, the voters made clear that they agreed with us; they had had had enough of right-wing policy. That is why we are finally going to have a budget adopted today that gives a new and fairer direction for Norway – a red-green budget that the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV have put together after tough and constructive negotiations, a budget that clearly shows that it is now the turn of ordinary peoples. After eight years of tax policy that has put them with the greatest wealth first, now is the turn of ordinary people. Those who make NOK 750,000 or less receive lower income taxes. Those with large incomes and large assets will have to pay more. We'll keep our promise. Commuters and families of children no longer receive the bill — on the contrary: they receive lower taxes and cheaper kindergartens and SFOs. The electricity charge does not increase – on the contrary: it is greatly reduced. After eight years when the majority has prioritised increasing wealth to a few, instead we strengthen our common well-being. Municipalities and county councils get a real growth of 4.5 billion. kr in free income. The hospital budgets are being strengthened, and the police are being strengthened. The counties get $2.50. kr more than the Solberg Government provided, and in addition 300 million. kr to cover the costs of resource-intensive users. After eight years of giving us warning pointers that welfare is becoming too expensive, we're building it out. We introduce free core time into the SFO for first-class learning and start a dental reform that targets young people and those with special needs. After eight years of unsocial cuts, we clean up. Those who have spent a long time on redundancy pay do not remain without income on 1 January. We strengthen the spectacle support for children, secure holiday pay for those who have been unemployed and on leave, and a number of other measures. Safe jobs for everyone are always job number one for the Workers' Party. Therefore, the budget provides for strengthening labour market measures and hubs, so that we get a closer follow-up of people who are out of work. That is why we have a strong commitment to an industrial policy and a climate policy that works together to cut emissions and create new, forward-looking jobs. It is a historically green budget that cuts emissions in Norway, both next year and in the years to come. We will increase the CO 2 tax, with partial compensation for petrol and diesel with reduced user charges next year. We set several hundred million kroner at Enova, the hydrogen rate, change car charges and provide more for climate action in municipalities. I record that the Right is talking about emissions cuts in its budget proposal as if it had ever become a reality. But history has shown that what Right says, and what is finally adopted in the Storting after negotiations with the Advance Party, are two completely different things. And once the alternative budget of the Progress Party has been presented, there is little evidence that the proposed emission cuts would have been given a majority in this Chamber. Fortunately, the result is different. Today, we have a red-green budget that delivers a fair climate policy to cut emissions and create jobs – similar to oil money spending as the proposal of the Solberg government. The choice in the autumn gave a clear majority for a new course; the voters had had enough of right-wing policy. Now, after 49 days, we have received a government that delivers on the Hurdal platform from day to day, on a case-by-case basis and in the budget that we get adopted here today. Together with SV here in Stortinget, the government parties today adopt a budget that delivers what we went to elections in: a new and fair direction for Norway where there is more left to ordinary people, for now is the turn of ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1444	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1449	Today, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV will increase the taxes on jobs and value creation by over 10 billion. kr. But in addition to this bill, the news today came that the government is accelerating the introduction of the pension from the first kroner by one year, not from 1 January 2023, but from 1 January 2022. As we know, this is a cost that will hit in particular those companies that have many employees, for example. the hotel, restaurant and service industries. This is not mentioned in the budget; no compensatory measures have been introduced for enterprises that in 29 days receive this cost, which the Ministry itself estimates to be 1.8 billion. kr. I have also been in contact with several employers' organisations today who say they have not heard anything about this before they opened due to today. My question to the parliamentary head of the Workers' Party is: does the government intend to provide any such compensatory measures for those companies that are already experiencing increasing uncertainty?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1458	That the Workers' Party wants a fairer pension scheme for people who work, and who have not received a pension from the first penny, should not surprise anyone. We have suggested this several times here in Stortinget, it has been in our plans, and it is an important signal to those who for many, many years have not received a pension from the first $100,000 they have earned. I can promise the representative, Asheim, that we get a lot of positive feedback from those who now receive a pension from the first crown, who have been in the situation for many years that they haven't received a pension – as they should have – in recent years, because you have pension plans that don't hit them it should hit: those that have the least.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1465	I fully agree with the arguments for the pension from the first kroner, which is why the Solberg administration proposed retirement from the first kroner introduced from 1 January 2023. Why? There are two reasons: firstly, that companies should have time to change and put the systems in place, and secondly, that we want a better overview of the pandemic situation. For this is a cost which, on the employer's side, will mainly meet the companies that have had the most tough business under the pandemic and which we now see in the media get new cancellations and new uncertainties. What surprises me – and I am aware that the representative Aasrud is not the Council of State – is that the three parties that now make up the majority in this Chamber have no contact with the employer’s side, and do not inform them of what is going to happen, so they send a bill of 1.8 billion. NOK 29 days. That is why I repeat: have the majority parties intended to bring compensatory measures to those companies that are now facing increased costs on which they were completely unprepared?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1474	The pension from the first penny, as I have said, has been known. It has been known that the Workers' Party and the other parties on the left were to introduce it. There is a cost that will amount to approximately NOK 2000 per employee. I believe that is a good investment to ensure that employees have a good pension. I cannot answer if there has been any contact with the employers, but you should not be surprised at that. And there have been things happening in this room that have come quite abruptly for some in previous budget negotiations, where both the one and the other fees have been introduced without having had any big conversations with them, so I think it's going well. This is a familiar area that we've been pretty clear for a long time. There have also been suggestions about this in this room many times, and it was in our documents before the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1482	There was something the representative Aasrud did not mention in his post, and it is that now it is more expensive to be ill in Norway. For approx. A year ago, the current Minister of Health, Kjerkol, said that it was fundamentally unfair that more people were spending more on disease when she criticised the Solberg Government’s proposal to increase the proportion of health care and medicine. It was stopped. That was the end of the Progress Party in the budget negotiations. No increased self-proportionality was achieved. But now it is adopted – by a red-green majority. That means that sick people with a free card get an extra charge of 600 million. Total kr. It affects half a million people. Does the parliamentary leader of the Labour Party agree with the health minister from the same party that it is fundamentally unfair for sick people to have more money?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1489	Much is fundamentally unfair in the draft budget presented by the Solberg Government. There you've cut into a lot of welfare benefits. Kids who need glasses will no longer be able to support it, many of them on redundancy pay, would be without income from 1 January. There are other proposals that are quite dramatic to those concerned, and in one year we have not been able to clear up all the proposals that have been put forward and adopted in this Chamber. We're concerned that we're going to continue working on it. We've got a lot of work in place, but we admit that in a few weeks we won't be able to put in place arrangements that straighten out all the unsocial cuts made by the government of Solberg in the last eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1494	We see this winter that there are many who are struggling financially. It's not only those groups that have had low income and low paying ability initially, but it affects many, and the pandemic has also made it even more difficult for some. In the budget agreement we have an increase in the housing aid scheme, and we have also adopted a one-off amount for those receiving housing aid, which was paid out last month. Unfortunately, the proposal for a grant scheme for the students was voted down, but we still got 100 million. kr for housing support. Does the parliamentary leader think that this is sufficient? And how can we also reach more groups of this system, so it won't be even more difficult for many?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1501	SV, the Central Party and the Workers' Party have now combined an agreement and a government budget that will give more redistribution, so that those who have the least will get more. Those who make less than 750,000 dollars will get the same tax or less. So in many areas, we give a handshake to those who have challenges. Housing support is a good tool to be able to use when people have challenges, but now we have a joint proposal here today to see if there are other ways of looking at it with the help of those who have high electricity costs. Housing aid may clearly be an alternative there, but there may also be other ways of setting up the type of aid scheme, which may also affect groups other than those normally receiving housing aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1506	I want to repeat a quote: ‘Inflicting increased costs of disease in the middle of a pandemic will be incorrect.’ It's like I had to say it myself. I believe ordinary people, for whom the Workers' Party and this government say that the government should be in favour, fully agree, because for ordinary people, 461 kroner is a lot of money. And it's absolutely right that it's unfair. It was unfair last year, and it's unfair this year too. It doesn't keep saying that you couldn't reach everything, because it's possible to create more change than the government has. Is the Workers' Party to increase by 461 kroner? If not, why is it more important to peace the tax settlement with the right-hand side than to make health cheaper, or at least not more expensive, for people?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1518	As I said in my previous answer, we have made a significant redistribution in the budget we are presenting. There's less tax for those who make 750,000 dollars or less, we're increasing the tax for those who have more, and we're increasing the tax for those who have big assets. Then we've been working on this budget for a relatively short time now. We have had a round of negotiations with SV where we have put in place many new measures in the budget, such as: reduces the cost to those who have children in the SFO and to those who have children in the kindergarten. We have worked to get the spectacle support in place, and not least something I think Red has also been concerned about: securing those who are going to work clearance money, and who would now be completely without income from 1 January – many of them – if we had not got a different order for it. All in all, I think we've got a lot of good work to do. In addition, those who have been free now get holiday pay – a large sum that was not included in the budget of the right-hand government. So we've got a lot in place, but we're not going to fix the cuts that the previous government suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1527	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1532	Of course, a budget will solve challenges here and now, but not least it will address the long-term challenges for a country. The two main challenges facing Norway today are reducing greenhouse gas emissions and including more in the labour market. The previous government notified ambitious targets to the UN on reduced greenhouse gas emissions. The new government recently confirmed these objectives at the Glasgow climate conference. That's good, but goals alone are nothing worth without concrete action. The draft budget by the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left would provide concrete and measurable reductions in emissions. I notice that scientists say it's hard to see that the actual deal that the majority is now voting for will result in greater reductions than our option – it's not even certain that it will give the same amount. I understand, of course, that several parties find it difficult to vote for proposals that make it more expensive to pollute. This could mean that someone has to pay more. But that's what the polluter pays principle is all about. Today, there are good environmentally friendly alternatives for most people. In our budget, we compensate those who receive increased expenditure, but without weakening the climate effect. The majority of alternatives shrink the market for green solutions that the CO 2 tax would help create. It makes a detour to the climate targets. And at the same time, we use the community's resources unnecessarily, which could have been used for nurses, teachers, or to allow ordinary people to retain a little more of their own income. The second challenge is to include more people in the labour market. We need that because we need more hands when the most profitable industry is gradually going to have lower activity. In a short period of time, Norway has shifted from record unemployment to a high level of labour shortage in a number of sectors. Yesterday we could read that Norway tops the OECD list of how the country’s workforce has evolved under the pandemic. In many countries, as we have also seen in Norway before during crises, people have fallen out of the labour force. In contrast, Norway’s labour force has increased by a whole of 2 percentage points. So in contrast to the picture that Aasrud's representative just said that there has not been a strong effort to get people to work, it has been – and that therefore results other than previous crises have given. In previous crises, people have also withdrawn from the labour market and switched to pensions or health-related benefits. Now we see that the workline has worked under the pandemic. The challenge in the future will include even more. Then it will be to ensure that people have the right skills to take the new jobs, which is one of the most important things. Here, too, the draft budget by the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left provides the best answers. The commitment to knowledge and competence will raise our value creation, create opportunities for everyone, and not least contribute to reducing social inequality. In our draft budget, the completion reform in higher education is funded by over 800 million. kr. All shall now be able to continue training until they have completed and passed. More attention shall be paid to adapted training. The offer to those who do not receive a course should be improved. We also propose 240 million. kr to resume lost learning during the pandemic. And we are strengthening the further training of teachers, especially in special education, and are stepping up the important initiative in the future. What I have to say is that the government's draft budget and the conciliation now show another way in terms of knowledge. They give priority to knowledge and education down – first in the supplementaryproposal and further in the budgetary agreement with SV. Who had expected that after all the discussion about taking back what was lost, they actually cut off the funds to take back what was lost for students who were in poor education last year? We hear from the government parties that what is adopted here today is just the beginning – more must come. In the field of knowledge, I really hope not, because here it goes completely wrong when we now measure the budget up to the major challenges of social inequality, inclusion in the labour market and the business needs of the workforce that our society faces.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1554	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1559	The representative of Solberg has been the head of the government for eight years. Is it the tax cuts or welfare cuts she's most proud of?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1564	I'm most proud to have had an overall strategy to include more in working life. 5 000 more students now complete secondary education with a letter of formal education and, where appropriate, complete with study specialists. It's the best investment they can make in the world of work. It is the recipe to prevent more young people from becoming disapproved. It's because they have basic knowledge that makes them able to hold a job. I am concerned that we have had an integration policy that in 2019 showed that the number of children in poor families actually fell on an annual basis, because several of those who have come to Norway come to work, and because we have kept control of the borders. That's a good basis for starting on. I'm concerned that we have an incredibly good growth force. We're getting out of this pandemic with stronger growth than anyone had thought. As I mentioned in my post, our workforce is bigger, but there are also more companies. One of the main problems for Norwegian industry is that we lack skilled labour. It's a result after eight years of politics that I think is a very good foundation this government has inherited.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1570	Is it the cuts in the spectacle support and the redundancy money that have contributed to the representative Solberg now presenting as his government victories?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1575	I could take the same rhetorical question and ask why it was so important for the previous red-green government in Norway to cut PC support for all families, which we had to reintroduce, because the then red-green government thought that everyone could afford PC itself, so it was not important that the dyslexics got PC. We have made changes and targeted some schemes, such as: so that all the children who had scalding and the diagnostics for which they had been given the spectacle support were still given the spectacle support, but they did not get the spectacle support for the part for which all the other children also did not receive the spectacle support. If you had the combination of two different visual errors, you didn't get it. We tightened up some arrangements that had grown significantly, but I still believe that the main course ahead is that the welfare of Norway has improved after eight years with a civil government. Our educational outcomes are better, our working life is better, and the emissions of greenhouse gases went down – a pretty good legacy to leave behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1580	I understand that the Right now intends to mark itself as the great educational party. Then it is worth remembering that the entire investment in technical schools and almost the entire investment in professional subjects has been driven through by the opposition in Stortinget, including. The party of progress, the Workers' Party and the Center Party, so I think that story might be a little more varied than what the Right adds up to. But I'm going to mention some stumble threads, because there's always a budget from one government to another. We have had to cover an unpaid bill for the vaccine collaboration from the government of 2 billion. NOK, and there was NOK 0 set aside for the additional negotiations in agriculture that the Right had undertaken to carry out. Most surprising of all was the attempt to slaughter Siva and also have a big cut in Innovation Norway. We had to fill up 300 million. kr to remove the cuts they made on Siva. What was the background for the Right choosing to go against a big crowd and cut and slaughter Siva, a successful innovation business in Trondheim?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1587	First, I would like to remind you that it was the government that proposed the Education Plan for 2020, with places for both vocational training and higher education. I'm glad that during the pandemic we have had a good cooperation with the Storting in many of these areas, but the results we see at school are not the results of just what we've done under the pandemic. There are results from the thorough work we have done to raise quality every year, with a high priority on education throughout this course, on changes in structure, changes in the way we work with the professions, and not least working on how to design the vocational schools in the future. As regards the area review of Siva and Innovation Norway, there was an area review where it was considered that there were overlapping schemes. It was possible to improve efficiency, and we could apply measures in other areas. The sum of what we've been doing for eight years is that we've doubled industrial research and innovation funds in total. It's a powerful bet the previous government has made, and as we also see now in a powerful business in transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1594	The right-hand proposal for a State budget was not an invitation to cooperate with the Progress Party, with increased proportions of sicker, more expensive petrol and diesel, more expensive cars, a sharp increase in the CO 2 tax, which will affect Norwegian businesses, and cut the health supply. One removes the successful project of the Progress Party with state-funded care for the elderly with a pen stroke, despite the agreement with the municipalities that the project would last longer. The project has been a success. Every municipality that's in it boasts in the clouds. This is about the need for users to decide what help they get, not what economy the municipality has. However, the previous government chose to break this agreement, and the new one follows up. Why is the Right so concerned that the cut in aid weakens Norway’s reputation in the world, while breaking agreements with Norwegian municipalities – which go beyond the elderly and sick – is quite fine?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1604	It is absolutely right that we had an agreement with the Progress Party in Granavolden to continue that project. The Granavolden platform was no longer a basis for a new government after the election, and we then chose to follow what was our primary position. It is clear that the main challenge with the project of government funding is that there has been much more money added than the other municipalities had. It is easy to say that more money also offers more. I think most of us can say that you get better deals in municipalities. There might be some values of better context too, but it wasn't a priority for us. I want to say, because the self-interest is increased, that we have to remember that we are very busy ensuring that the chroniclers get better in Norway. A major reform was made last year when we merged the two self-participants, which contributed to much more getting lower self-esteem. That this year we have adjusted that entry point, I still think it is right, because most of us can pay a little more when we go to the doctor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1611	The representative Solberg used his post to look back, while very many people can now look forward, towards a brighter time. In the last week we have received many feedback from people in SV, and there is one word that goes again: Thank you. The roof comes from parents who have kids who need glasses, from performers who are both secured children's supplements, and who can lower their shoulders after fear and rage over cuts in the free amount, and it comes from people who are guaranteed holidays with their family, after unemployment and leave. That's why I'm wondering, when I hear the representative Solberg talking, whether the representative Solberg regrets that the right-wing government made life so difficult for so many more, that they had to bear the burden of unsocial cuts, or whether the representative still thinks it is right to give tax cuts to those who have the most, and welfare benefits to those who have the least.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1618	My post was about the state budget we have now submitted – not about what we have done before, but the state budget we have actually submitted now. There is an alternative to the policy SV now stands for, and SV now stands for a less knowledge-based initiative in Norway. I'm amazed, because I've always experienced SV as a bit of an allied party in being concerned with knowledge and competence. They cut out a natural science class, despite the fact that Norwegian students have half the hours of natural science at high school than what they have in our neighbouring countries. There are a number of things like this that it's important to emphasize that would have been important for future Norway, not least for the green shift, that we have a lot of understanding for it. Many of the changes we have made to welfare systems have been to keep the working line up. That's always been the opposite. I respect the fact that you don't think it's important that it's a motive to work. What I'm surprised about, is that the Workers' Party, which I've seen throughout the 1990s and until 2013 stood for a line of work, has now abdicated for SV's way of thinking, that it's not necessarily worth working.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1625	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1630	The Workers' Party-Center Party government is now being joined by the State budget following thorough negotiations with SV on a settlement. There have been good negotiations, which have also produced a balanced result. With the additional proposal and the agreement, many changes have been made to the budget proposed by the Solberg Government on 12 October. That was absolutely necessary. In the draft budget of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party there were many stumbling blocks and very many unfortunate proposals. Now it's set a new and better course. The municipalities, which promise our well-being in everyday life, came too badly into the Solberg government budget. Now they're going to have $2.50. more important tasks in kindergarten, school and care for the elderly. In the comparison with SV, it is further reinforced by approx. 1 billion. kr. In addition, we strengthen the funding of so-called resource-intensive users, those of us who are most in need of social assistance. Despite a commitment to additional negotiations with agriculture, these were not initiated by the previous government and not a single penny was allocated to it in the draft budget. Now the negotiations have been carried out, and agriculture is allocated almost 1 billion. More in our budget than in the draft budget to the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. We will raise food production in Norway in the years to come, not least for small and medium-sized applications. District policy has been sadly neglected by the previous government over several years. Here we also start a new course. The Solberg government submitted a proposal that both slaughtered Siva in Trondheim and deprived Innovation Norway’s district-oriented activities. This is now corrected, in line with the large number of people also wanted, and we are going to strengthen Siva in the years that are coming. We have increased the allocation of broadband and started the introduction of urban growth agreements, a whole new tool in rural policy. The pendulum subtraction has been increased. It reduces the cost of people who have to commute far to work. The price of the ferry has been reduced, and there will be a free ferry for island communities without mainland connections. Laws and associations throughout the country receive VAT compensation and no longer have to pay taxes on their dues. Nearly 4 billion. kr in the additional proposition is used to equalise geographical differences. For the Central Party, it is important that people feel secure that the police come whenever you need it, no matter where in the country you live. That is why we have increased the appropriations made available to the police and are targeting more police officers and departments across the country. The same applies to the small courts that have too few judges today. Now we're increasing the amount of funding, so there's more that can be hired. It gives more employees both in the small district courts and better quality. The tax policy provides for a stronger redistribution. Those with low income and low wealth get less tax, but those who earn well have to take a greater part of the burden. Compared to the Solberg Government’s proposals, the charges have been significantly reduced. We're facing a winter with high power prices. There are not very many short-term measures that can solve the whole problem, but increasing housing support and lower electricity charges – as the government has already suggested – will at least help to reduce the electricity costs for all of us. I am also pleased that today we have a majority in favour of a proposal that the government should come back with new measures. In the longer term, we need to increase our own renewable power generation, and then we need to say a clear no to new power cables, for which the previous government has been in favour. And if I'm allowed to say that, we also have to hope that Norwegian oil companies will produce and export a lot of gas in the future, so that we can lighten up the tight gas market in Europe. The centre party looks forward to an effective climate policy that reduces emissions and is practical and ground-based. Policies in this area should not create new social and geographical divisions. It will, in the long run, be devastating to the possibility of a broad popular uproar on one of the greatest challenges of our time. Therefore, the government also contributes compensation for parts of the increase in the CO 2 charge to the drivers proposed by the previous government. Together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, we have also agreed on the creation of a Bionova, which will bring the emissions into agriculture. The previous government concluded an agreement on climate change with agriculture, but there were no means to actually reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Now this gets into place. Climate policy needs new tools, not just discussions about new goals. There has been an exceptional budget harvest. When one government goes off and another comes, there's a lot that's going to happen in a short time. There is no doubt that we would have had the opportunity to change more if we had had a normal budgetary process, but we didn't. But the central party is well satisfied with the additional proposition and the fact that we got a budget agreement with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1658	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1664	In July, in the newspaper Süd-Trøndelag, we could read that the Center Party said that increased property taxes make it more difficult for local business. Ola Borten Moe said: ‘In addition, there is a distinction between what is passive capital income and what is active ownership through what we call working capital. There may be operating funds, family companies or capital invested directly in production and value creation, for which we do not wish to tax." There was clearly something the centre party just said in the election campaign, because now we see that they are doing the very opposite by sending the bill to corner stone companies across the country. What is Arnstad going to say to the many Norwegian-owned companies – especially in District Norway – which, in the opinion of the Centre Party itself, will have more difficulty with a real asset tax tightening beyond 70 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1676	It's true that we're redistributing, among other things. by increasing the taxes on wealth on the largest assets. I think that is a proper tax development. It is a tax development the centre party has already announced in its alternative state budget, because what is the point of entry for operating resources and the rate of our budgetary settlement is about where the centre party's alternative budget was last autumn. So no one should be surprised that we are willing to go into those points, because they are well in line with what we have proposed in our alternative budget in the Stortinget earlier. There are over 10,000 fewer people who have to pay taxes on wealth with the arrangements we have, because we're increasing the bottom line significantly. That means that there are fewer of those who have the small assets, who have to pay taxes on wealth with our scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1681	Many of those who are registered with the large assets are companies like Orkel, which Ola Borten Moe visited and said he was not going to increase the tax for, for example. on their equipment. There are companies like Selbuhus, which is a cornerstone enterprise that employs many people in the community, and which say clearly that they could have employed more people in their community if they had reduced taxes on wealth. We also know that there is a shortage of skilled labour, especially in District Norway, and if you are to be able to invest in more people and increase your skills, we have to make sure that companies have enough capital. As I hear Arnstad, she's really satisfied that SV has been passed through to increase the property tax next year as well. Then my question is: Is it relevant for Arnstad and the Centerpartiet to continue to increase the tax on Norwegian-owned jobs in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1690	For the kind of business that the representative Holm Lønneth mentions here, I think it's quite a lot that's important. I'm sure they're busy with property taxes, but they're also busy with a lot of other things. They are e.g. Taking into account the level of taxes involved, they are subject to other types of taxes; they are subject to the availability of capital. That access to capital has not increased with the previous government, for they have removed the instrument or instrument, in particular in the districts, in terms of access to capital and risk capital. We're going to do something about that in the future. So I think there's a lot of things that determine the competitiveness of these companies. The centre party believes that it should be possible to do a good job in any Norwegian business and have good conditions, while also having to ensure that those who have the most also contribute the most when it comes to redeployment in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1695	In recent years, and especially in the election campaign, there has been no lack of promises and expensive promises, especially from the Center Party. It's given the impression that it's going to flood with milk and honey all over the country, as well as in tround layers. The Trander Railway and the Meråkerbahnen were to get more money, the municipalities would get more money from the Maritime Fund, the Coastal Museum of Hitra would become the National Maritime Museum, the Olavshallen would get money for its refurbishment, the Ocean Space Centre would have fully financed its laboratories, and not least the gas price in the districts would go down. All of this was to do something about it, and quickly. Almost all of these points have been agreed between the Centre Party and the Working Party in opposition, many of which have also joined the SV. How is it possible that all of this has been negotiated between agreed parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1702	I was going to say the "samboerduo," but I say the "South-Trundelag-duo" instead – that they ask me questions, I think I'm fine, it's nice. The representative Bjørnstad now mentioned a bit of things he thought we had promised. Some of it is seaworthy and well met, especially the municipal framework. I think there are an incredible number of municipalities – both in the Nord-Trøndelag and in the Süd-Trøndelag – who appreciate that the new government has chosen to make larger transfers to the municipalities and makes it easier for them to carry out the important welfare tasks they do for us in everyday life. At least I have received feedback from a lot of them. So there's a lot of examples of things that are going to take a little longer, and the tread is one of them. But the reason it takes longer is simply that the previous government has sabotaged almost any attempt to electrify that path. It's clear that then it'll take time for us to also review what you can do for the Trønderban in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1709	The next replicater is Lars Haltbrecken. The drummers are well represented.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1714	It'll be a south-facing trio, even if I'm not going to brag about any association with the two previous ones. This week we have once again seen the importance of public ownership for power generation. [[Laughter]] It's done that when Statkraft makes a lot of money on a high power price, we've been able to plough some of this back to the Norwegian people: to cheaper SFO, to glasses support for kids, to vacation money for those who have been unemployed, to increased housing support. If Statkraft had been a private company – and perhaps not taxed to Norway – we would not have had that opportunity. The hydropower in Norway is largely owned by the public. This is not the case for wind power generation; there is a large proportion owned by private individuals. Finally, we got the Center Party with us on public ownership of wind power in the previous period, and I will challenge the representative Arnstad to respond to whether the Center Party will work so that the wind power will also enter public ownership in the coming period. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1723	We'll try to stay within the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1728	Firstly, I fully agree with the representative Lysbakken that... Sorry, Lysbakken, Haltbrecken – sorry, that is. [[Laughter]] However, I fully agree with the representative that the fact that the public owns the power generation is immeasurably important. It's been important all over the hundred years as it has been. I also want to add that I believe that the national control you can have over power generation is also important. I think there are many crucial debates ahead of us. We need to reach, for example: develop sea breezes. I'm concerned that we're going to be able to have a national control related to the development of sea winds, it takes me. So that's one of the issues. It is true that, in the context of our programme process, the Centre Party has had a rather extensive discussion of ownership of wind power and also the right of return for wind power, because I believe that there are some new leaders there in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1735	Comparing a representative from Trondheim and one from Bergen is almost a mortal sin. But that was not the question. Now there has been an additional announcement from the government to the news about energy that came before the summer. I'm going to try to be brief this time in the question, and that's whether the Center Party – when the government presents its additional message – proposes that we have a right of return for wind power, and that we introduce public ownership requirements for wind power also on land in Norway, which we have for hydropower.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1741	"Oh mercy," I must say to the representative Haltbrecken. It was a reference I think only he and I understood. But yes, I think it is due to an interesting debate related to the Energy Communication next year, and there are enough aspects to the Energy Communication and Marine Window Construction that are interesting. I also think there is reason to look closely at the calculations made on different types of sea wind development and different types of network solutions. I also think that we have big discussions in front of us that are not just about ownership, but about how to design the arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1746	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1751	That's good, there's going to be a morgue among all of these barrels. The Progress Party's alternative budget prioritises sick, elderly, pensioners and children. Yes, we're giving priority to building the country. We want, to mention something, to stop the great waste of aid, immigration, integration and symbolic climate action that adorns the Norwegian climate accounts, but that has nothing to say about the world's climate. It costs billions of dollars, and it's the taxpayers who pay the bill. In contrast to the Central Party – Labour Party government, the Progress Party prioritises the most – severe cuts in fees, because we know that charges are mostly applied to those who have the least. Many are now concerned about the private economy. Collection agencies are calling out a warning that many people are going to have problems because of the high power prices. This is done on the Guard of the Workers' Party and the Central Party. There are record power prices, and what does the government do? Well, they're talking about what happened many years ago, at a time when the Progress Party and the Right were heading, and then the power price was extremely much lower than it is now. People don't want to know what happened five to six years ago. They want to know what the Storting intends to do now to help in the difficult situation many people have in terms of paying their bills. They want to know what the government is going to do now so that they can afford to buy Christmas presents for their kids and celebrate Christmas. The party of progress does not accept it. That is why, in the past, we have made proposals to eliminate both VAT and electricity taxes out of the year. It was downhearted. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV have now negotiated for weeks, without providing any solution for those who are now afraid that they cannot afford to pay their bills. So once again you have to sit down to try to look at this. I think it's incredibly passive. I think a lot of people are worried now. The Progress Party again proposes to remove VAT and electricity taxes by 2022. We propose to take control of electricity exports, and we want to stop the electrification of Norwegian oil platforms, which are pure symbolism policies, and which are just going to lead to an even more expensive flow. In the new age, the Progress Party will propose to pay NOK 4000 in cash to all Norwegian households. It gives less bureaucracy. It increases the chance that the money can get out quickly, now that people actually need it. I find it strange that the Minister of Oil and Energy is not present in the Chamber here, both to make statements about the situation and to answer questions. I will ask her for the next week to come to Stortinget and explain the situation and what the government now intends to do to help the many who are struggling. The priority is to reduce the charges on petrol and diesel, while the Workers' Party and the Centre Party present and serve lifting breaks. There was no way this would be cheaper. Now it's actually going to be more expensive. So are the cars. Also the price of electricity, fuel and food, and the interest, is on the way up. It's hard for ordinary people now. Syke gets an extra $600 million. kr in increased accumulators. But the biggest lifting break goes to Norwegian oil workers and the oil industry. It was touching to hear Finance Minister Slagsvold Vedum stand here and talk about how amazing this industry is, while the Center Party is now going to vote to cancel the 26th concession round. That means less exploration. That means fewer findings. It means lower income. It means fewer jobs, even less well-being. That's how it works when you leave power to a party that wants to shut down Norwegian oil production, as SV de facto wants. So even though Jonas and Trygve have a majority on Stortinget to continue their search policy, they choose to lean on a party that will put this industry down. There is no lack of money in Norway, but there is a lack of priority. Therefore, the Progress Party wants to put an end to spending money on climate action, immigration, integration and assistance, while sick people in Norway can die because they do not have access to the best medicine, while the elderly do not get the help they need, and people are afraid that they cannot pay their electricity bills. We have the recipe to leave this country in better condition for future generations. [[President clubs]] That's why it's a shame it doesn't... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1772	Then speaking time is well and well out. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1779	I am sorry to have to say that, but it is quite empty when the representative, Mr. Listhaug, does not look back and look into the story of what they themselves have done in the government offices. Let me first take the oil and gas industry and further work on numbered rounds: With the seven years of the Advance Party in the Oil and Energy Ministry, two new numbered rounds were announced. That's what they got. Why didn't they do it every year? And in terms of electricity prices: what preparations did the Ministers for Oil and Energy of the Progress Party make for the situation we are now experiencing? Was it totally unprepared? That's an important question, because that's what she to those degrees gives the impression of when she keeps her post. She was totally unprepared for that situation to arise. Indeed, it was the Progress Party that would really facilitate a further link, not least to the European market, with the release of who would own the foreign tables.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1786	In the case of the foreign tables, work was done on it already under the previous red-green government, with Ola Borten Moe at the head. I mean, we're where we are, and we have to deal with the situation. That is why we are now promoting proposals in the Storting, which we want to have dealt with urgently, to take control of exports. What is the answer from the Workers' Party to that? I have not heard anything, but I record that you do not want to deal with that proposal urgently. So it's like that in the time the Progress Party sat and rushed, we weren't in the vicinity of seeing electricity prices like we're doing now. I think people who are watching, the cat cares about what was done then. What they want answers to is what to do now to remedy the situation we are in, with electricity prices that Norway has never seen before. It hits people, it hits businesses, and we're in a serious situation. Several parties have been sitting and negotiating for weeks and have zero answers to the main challenges. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1795	Then you're out of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1800	I can comfort the representative Listhaug that, at the time we've been available, we've done more to reduce the burden on Norwegian power customers than the Progress Party was able to do in seven years, because it was a waste of work. The only thing you got was to increase the electricity charge over the years you spent in government. But you have to include the story: it is actually like that when Tord Lien in 2013 said he wanted more expensive electricity and more cables abroad, and he was tired of low power prices in 2016, it shows very clearly what basis and goal the Progress Party had in having the Minister of Oil and Energy. And as I said, we've done more in a few days than the Progress Party has done in seven years to reduce the strain on the power customers, and we're going to do more. We have made a constructive proposal today, precisely to put forward concrete measures. But I ask, what preparations did the Progress Party make to avoid the situation we have now faced, when they were in the government offices and were in charge of the Ministry of Oil and Energy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1807	As I said, we are in the situation we are in now, and I believe that all parties who have been in government have a responsibility for that. What people are wondering now is what do we do now. The problem is that we now have a government that has zero answers to people who sit and are afraid of not being able to pay the bill, who may be sitting at home in the living room now and saving the electricity and freezing because you are afraid not to have money to buy Christmas gifts, to buy Christmas food, to have the family holiday that you go into. Then I hear that you boast of a reduction of a few cents on the fees. So, the price that's now is in a completely different league than the one that ever was when the Progress Party sat and crashed. And when you're bragging about reducing charges by a few ears, and the price increases by several dollars, I think most people who sit at home, just laugh at it, because it's not an answer to the challenges that people have. There is a proposal on the table today to give people NOK 4000 in cash support. It does not want this government to vote for [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1816	We have to stay on time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1821	The truth about the Flow Party's currents policy is sad. The Progress Party must take responsibility for the turbulent current we now have, for it was the oil and energy minister from the Progress Party who said he was tired of low power prices. It was the Progress Party in the government that changed the law to allow private export cables of Norwegian power. It was the Progress Party in the Government that announced Norway's entry into the Acer, an organisation that has the task of creating a common energy market throughout Europe, and it was the Progress Party in the Government that increases the electricity charges repeatedly. They spent eight years increasing the fees by 40 pst. We have spent eight weeks reducing the fees by 47 pst. My question is: is the representative and party leader of the power policy that one led in government, or is it a pride of what one did in these eight years?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1827	The fact is, at least, that many years ago, ministers of oil and energy from the Central Party spoke of Norway becoming Europe's green battery. Now we're actually seeing what happens when you get there. I don't think we should be. Therefore, the Progress Party has already made proposals to take control of exports of electricity. What does the Center Party do with that? - Nothing. I note that there is no support for an urgent examination of the proposal in order to try to take it under control. Then the centerpart boasts of a few cents reduction in the electricity charge, at the same time as the price increases by many dollars. I think people are sitting at home laughing because they see that there is no solution to the challenge that they have now. Therefore, I do not understand that you have been sitting for weeks and negotiating and coming out very satisfied without a single measure to help people who are now afraid of not being able to pay the bill. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1834	Then you're out of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1839	It must be strange for the representative Listhaug and the Progress Party – after eight years of civil budgets in which they have made unsocial cuts after unsocial cuts for them with at least, given large tax cuts to them with the most and only given smears in tax slots for ordinary people or those with low incomes – that a budget is now being negotiated by SV where people get the most tax credits than in the budgets the Progress Party was with and supported. In addition, we reverse a number of the unsocial cuts that the Progress Party stood for, which hit most people. But we know what it's all about. The party of progress is a party for billionaires most. That's where they have chosen to align their large tax cuts, while SV is a party for fair redistribution. My question to the representative Listhaug is simple: is she happy that SV has made it clear what the Progress Party did not do, namely to cut taxes in a way that people most, and not billionaires most, earn?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1846	What I'm pleased about is that we're showing up the policy of the Progress Party, which means we're going to stop wasting billions of dollars on sending aid out of the country, as SV will, and stop wasting it on stupid -- sorry to say, President -- climate action like electrification of the socket, CO 2 capture and storage, and other projects where billions roll out. Then I record that sick people in Norway who need drugs are left to themselves to die, unless the system then allows these drugs to be made available. I do not see any sign that SV has done anything about this. I also think it's strange, when you claim to be very concerned about the social, that you have been sitting on the SV's side for weeks and negotiating a budget and coming out of there without a penny in hand to all disabled pensioners, people who are now afraid of not being able to pay their bills. I think it is a good idea and I have no reason to praise the job that SV has done. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1856	The President reminds us that one must try to keep the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1861	When the representative Listhaug is on television, there is no way in which she is able to show to disabled and sick people. In fact, in the fall, I've sometimes been a little bit unsure about whether it's really Sylvi Listhaug I've heard, and not a sort of socialist pile, not to say even a Communist pile. But one thing is what you promise on television, or what you say on the pulpit of the Great Britain, that you have given priority to the sick and the children. Something quite different is what you've suggested. And when I read the Advance Party's alternative state budget, I just get sad. Here it was cut in the redundancy money, here it was cut in the transitional pension for single parents, here it was cut in the child supplement for the disabled, sick people, and so their children are invited to be in a good time to secure further tax cuts for the wealthiest people in the country. My question is: What does the representative, Listhaug, have to say to those who are pregnant with children, from whom she is now proposing to take the money?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1868	The president wants to rob the representative of using nicknames for other representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1873	I believe that we have made an incredibly good proposal for all those in need of public assistance. We redistribute and cut this great waste, as we see Red also wants, on immigration and integration. There you have to raise up to 6,500 refugees. There are billions of expenditure in the years that come for Norwegian taxpayers – expenditure that will only roll off farms – symbolic climate action and assistance, where the money is so loose that it is never about Norway not having the money. What we're doing is making sure that we provide crisis packages for ordinary people, lower taxes, make sure that we now take care to see that people have problems with electricity costs, with food costs, with diesel and petrol costs, and we also see that interest rates are increasing. Then it is important that we target the help to those who need it the most, and we do so by reducing — strongly — the tax burden in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1880	Then the line chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1885	The budgetary agreement negotiated by SV with the government parties has created new enthusiasm. It has made the budget clearer red-green. It's useful. People will be heard. Real change is possible. The agreement means that at the top they have to pay much more taxes, while two new welfare reforms for the many – free SFOs and dental reform – are being launched. The agreement means that we still get a government budget that cuts more greenhouse gas emissions than what they blue provided, and it means that the many who voted to stop looking for fossil energy and reduce dependence on oil, see that their vision is also likely to affect oil policy. So the agreement means more to live off too many miserable, poor families and people who were exposed to the social cuts of the right. Let me start there, because that's what's probably the most important legacy after eight bourgeois years -- a Difference Norway where the richest have drained heavily. Many workers have remained silent, and there have been several poor people. In this reality, citizens decided year after year to send the big money towards those who had the most from before. Instead, in this budget agreement, we put people with little first. The ones with the big assets and the million wages get more taxes, and then we spend some of that money reverse the one unsocial cut after another. We stop the proposal that the disabled who are able to work a bit will lose their social security. The cut in children's allowances for the disabled is finally lifted after many years. There were a lot of families that went wrong because of that. The housing stock is increasing again. The children get the spectacle back, and a great injustice ends when all the families on social assistance are finally going to enjoy the child's privacy and it should not be allowed for municipalities to hold the money back. Unemployed and on- leave leave is paid, so that those who have paid the highest price for the coronary crisis can get a proper holiday next year. Then we have agreed on a number of measures that provide emission reductions in Norway in both the short and long term. It was impossible for SV to be on a budget that cut less than the bourgeois government had submitted, and now we are adopting instead a budget that cuts more. Since we did not agree with Hurdal, SV has been clear that we want to demand influence in the oil policy as well. The agreement states that the 26th oil concession round will not be closed in 2022, and we will get a sharp increase in the CO 2 tax on the cap. SV has also fought for nature and stopped the government's proposal to cut forest protection. From the opposition, SV targets itself to drive forward two comprehensive and incredibly important welfare reforms. It'll be historic, but it's possible. Now all first-raters get free half-day job in the SFO from school start. That means that even the kids who have not been in the game so far get to be in the game. This means that the school leisure system can become even more a part of the development of a school day where all children can learn, succeed and thrive, and that means not least large sums saved for many families around the country. So the budget agreement marks the beginning of work on dental reform, where our goal is to end the wallet by deciding what kind of dental health you have. More young people get cheaper dentists, more support for children and young people who need dental regulation, the capacity of public dental services is increased, and the investigation of what is our goal, a reform with a roof of eccentricities for everyone, is initiated. SV says today, together with the government parties, that another major difference challenge, namely a power market that has run wild, is also going to get its solutions, in both the short and the long term. There is a clear commitment in the decision taken later today that the government, in cooperation with the SV, should and will come up with measures that could remedy the situation for those who are struggling with the bills. It is in line with what the Stortinget did on the initiative of SV earlier in the fall for them has the least. Then we also have to work in the longer term to solve the system problem – how to take power from the market and make sure that the situation we have now does not arise again. We've shown that we can use our key position in the Storting to deliver change for people, that our voters should have counting for their vote. But that is not the most important thing about what is being adopted today. The most important thing is the difference that it makes in life and everyday life for many people in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1909	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1915	SV is a party that has apparently been involved in knowledge, education and research. The SV's first budget, together with the red-green government, does not appear entirely again. Right in government prioritised knowledge in school with clear objectives of that 90 pst. by 2030. This budgetary agreement does not give priority to knowledge and learning. Rather, we see a systematic down-priority of quality and content in school, where one takes away an extra hour in the natural sciences, a cutter in the teacher-specialist system, and one removes the means to cover the lost learning of the students as a result of the pandemic. Instead of targeting, SV together with the government chooses to lubricate thinly to all, through the SFO and the premiere of the number of schools, without pointing out a clear direction. Can the representative understand the strong reactions that have come from the students and the education sector as a result of SV's withdrawal from school, higher education and research in its budgetary unit?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1922	It is not surprising that the Right does not recognise a reform of the SFO as important in school policy, but we are therefore concerned with a school and knowledge policy that sees that there are whole children being sent to school. You don't send your brains to school alone. You send the whole child to school, and the baby needs food, it needs to play, it needs to thrive, it needs to be with other kids. You have to make a whole day around it. That's why our SFO reform is a very important contribution to knowledge policy, and it's the Right's poor view of knowledge that makes them not recognise it. So I do not accept criticism of school policy from the Right without remembering what it is that the new majority has inherited, namely a lack of teachers in school with which the previous government was systematically allowed to do something, with everything from the separation of experienced teachers to the pointless four-man requirement, with which the new majority is doing something. So there'll be better times for everyone who's involved in knowledge policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1935	There is no doubt that we should take into account the whole child. I have four myself and know to a great extent how important it is. But politics is also about prioritizing, and there is no doubt that here, a large amount of money is lubricating slightly – towards more leisure time in school instead of content and quality. Cutting teacher-specialist training contributes to the lack of development of pedagogy and methodology and to the strengthening of early efforts, and it is not new to Norwegian students. It is also bad news for Norwegian students that one will remove the lesson of natural sciences, unfortunately we know that Norwegian students are doing worse in the natural sciences at secondary school than students in Sweden and Finland. Norway has considerably fewer natural vocational hours than the other Nordic countries, and students also score significantly lower. Real science is important both in everyday life and in society, and industry and industry demand more with real science. To carry out the green shift, we depend entirely on more children and young people choosing this. Does the representative think that it is forward-looking to eliminate an extra natural science class, when the studies so clearly show the opposite, and what are the assessments behind this, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1944	I am not aware that our priorities are to lubricate thinly. On the contrary, it is highly targeted priorities. Free SFO is a major welfare reform – a major and strong priority. Then there are a number of purposes in the knowledge sector that we want to spend more money on. SV is for several hours, although we will probably prioritize several hours in practical subjects instead of several theory hours. We think it's the most important thing to create a more practical and varied day at school. SV is to strengthen students' finances. But there were some things we had to do first, because there was so much wrong left after the Right in government. We've chosen to spend a lot of money giving back glasses to children, to give poor people a little better advice, to make sure that families on social welfare get child welfare, and that's what I say the jam is that we did first.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1951	In the newspaper we can read that sources in the Workers' Party and the Centre Party ridicule the SV's oil sails: ‘Proclaims that SV has received a large oil winch are met with laughter.’ I don't think there's anything to laugh about that there didn't come in a 26th concession round, or that there's going to be an increased tax on the industry. But it might say a little bit about how serious the Workers' Party and the Center Party are taking the industry, when they choose to laugh at the victories that SV gets. I am disappointed, because when it is tightened up at the same time as the fees increase for the industry, it becomes less attractive to the oil companies. This is contrary to what the Workers' Party and the Centre have said about developing the industry, but I wonder: Does the Light Hill agree that this is something to laugh about, or does the Light Hill now look higher since they laugh at it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1963	Life has taught me to take the newspaper's anonymous sources with a pinch of salt. I might say that first. The background for that very story was a matter in Dagbladet at a time when this was outlined as a possible oil compromise for a new red-green government. It is clear that there would not be a sustainable oil compromise for a four-year government agreement. It would be too small for us. However, I believe that there is a clear sign of oil policy in what is only a budget agreement for one year. The representative Steffensen is right in that it plays a role in activity, and it is a clear signal that even we, who have a different view of oil policy than what the Progress Party and some other parties stand for, should be heard when a majority depends on our influence.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1968	The representative Lighthouse was very clear that this would be far too small if it were to rule together for four years. At the same time, Lightbakken has said that they chose not to go into the government because they expect a much greater impact on the outside than they would be able to get into government. Now we've seen what they've got for this year. Then I wonder what they're looking for next time. Is there even greater taxation of the oil industry? Is it targeting TFO and also stopping searching in mature areas? It would have been very good to get a confirmation of what is good enough for SV to be able to enter into budgetary settlements with the Workers' Party and the Centre in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1975	I thank you for the question. I get the absolute curiosity, and then I think I just have to apologize because it's a little early for me to answer it. We have not fully addressed the tactics for next year's budgeting yet, but the tone set in this agreement – both in terms of climate and environmental policy, and in terms of distribution policy – is the beginning of more of the change we want. Of course it is. Now we have also shown that SV is in a position where we can do what we said at Hurdal, that is to use our key position at Stortinget to exert real influence and create proper change for people. That was to the extent that a menu of different good ideas the representative Steffensen mentioned now, so I'm taking them all with me, and then we get a little priority towards the next harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1982	In the election campaign, SV and the representative Lysbakken drew from debate to debate, not least from the trade unions, and said that when it was changed, it would end the ABE reform. Then one should stop making that kind of efficiency improvements. Then it was expected that it was also the result. This was not the case when the Labour Party and the Centre presented their budget, and there was no result from the budgetary agreement. It would have been a good idea if SV did not get a pass on it, but SV did not propose to stop the ABE reform in the alternative budget. To all of this, even the next year's budget has even increased, through new cuts in the same items, to find money to finance it. I am in favour of the ABE reform, because I believe it is necessary to streamline in the public sector. I think it's good to be able to target bets where it really needs to be. The question is: is it that SV has now changed view, as they no longer propose to make changes, or is it just that one needed money?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1991	There's no reason to rejoice. The ABE reform will end. I feel that the government is also very clear that there will be no ABE reform from next year. So it's pretty simple that we've prioritised things we thought it was more important to do something with everyone first. It is a priority where I feel very confident that we have the trade-union movement in my back. The clear signal from there was that ensuring that workers get holiday pay, and cleaning up unsocial cuts for disabled, poor families and children who need glasses – which the Left has been with in recent years – was what has the highest priority now. Then we have promised to abolish the ABE reform, and we shall keep that promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e1999	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2004	I know from experience that it is not easy to get into port with budget negotiations, so I want to start by congratulating the government parties and SV on finding an agreement. To get a budget, we need compromises, and we need dialogue. It is undoubtedly a strength in the Norwegian system that we have parties who dare to take responsibility, who find compromises, and who land majority. I would like to congratulate the position on that. I also agree with the Prime Minister that the budget has improved following these negotiations, it is only a pity that the Workers' Party and the Senter Party first had the opportunity to go ahead with the climate profile of the budget we provided before SV got out. SV has done a lot to reverse the cut in the climate effort of this government, but we have gone from a budget that follows the climate plan to a budget where we do not know if one with the consensus kisses as much as we did in our proposal. It doesn't really help if everyone in this room agrees that we have to do more when we actually end up with a budget that most likely does less. When I was running election campaigns this summer, it was this government that I was most concerned about taking over the government offices – with two parties that were committed to reverse important modernisation reforms and won out climate policy, two parties that couldn't see that we didn't get a green shift with red numbers, and that Norway has bigger challenges than some unpopular county mergers. Although SV has now had some important impact on the climate and the environment in these budget negotiations, I have to note that the result shows what the Left learned in the time we had a cooperation agreement at Stortinget: there is so much more we can do from the government offices than from Stortinget. We had to enter the government to bring about a proper climate plan, to bring about lasting changes in oil policy, such as the move of the ice edge, the protection of the Lofoten, the West Sea and Senja, and a change in the oil tax agenda, and not least to bring about a powerful completion reform that changes the direction of school, in high school. Such changes are difficult to obtain from a negotiating position on Stortinget. Unfortunately, it is not the same either which climate party has budgetary power. SV and Left agree much on climate policy, but the main problem of SV is that they have no problem in taxing the whole of business while increasing public support for green conversion. They take with one hand and give with the other. The result will be a faster reduction in green jobs and a reduction in emissions. The result is 9.2 billion. kr in increased taxes on business and on individuals. The fact that the government and SV have held on to 28 pst. The increase in CO 2 tax, as we proposed in our draft budget, is good, but I think that SV let the Senter party win the battle for car charges. As a result, this increase in fees will only have a partial impact on emissions. The parties call it a fair climate policy, but I think this is a classic politician concept that is really code for diluted climate policy. Another feature of this budget unit is the eagerness to spend the economic space on expensive general bets, bets that are not targeted at those who need it the most, but who embrace it so widely that they don't do much. The solidarity with those who need a little extra support is losing to those who like me are getting cheaper kindergartens, and I think that's a shame. For example, the government could: have chosen to extend free core time in kindergarten and SFO for those who need it the most. Instead, they have given all parents a little cheaper kindergarten space and free half-day space at SFO – well, not all, in fact, for those who do not enjoy this, are the over 40,000 children who already have free core time today. For them, this is not a budgetary unit that provides a more liberal economy, nor does it mean that more children who need to start in kindergarten or in the SFO to learn language and become a part of society get to it. Both the Hurdal Platform and the Budget Agreement clearly show the need for a clear liberal and green opposition to this government. We will continue to challenge the government when they propose policies that restrict freedom and deprive children and young people of an opportunity. We are going to say from when their tax increases go beyond the green shifts in business, when they weaken our cooperation with the EU, or when they water down the climate policy we need to achieve the climate goals that the whole Storting has agreed on. But we also need to be constructive. We are going to provide credible alternatives to government policies, alternatives that both balance differences, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and make it easier to create their own and others' jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2026	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2031	The representative Melby was himself in his post at kindergarten prices, and with Left's blessing, the right-wing government increased kindergarten prices year after year. With this budget, the maximum price will be cut for the first time since 2013. It will provide an annual savings of NOK 2 900 for families with one child. Lowering the nursery price is important to make the offer available to everyone, and not least to give the families of young children a little better economy in their everyday lives. And where the Left points to moderation schemes for the few, this government delivers cheaper and better kindergartens for all, precisely because the kindergarten community should be for all the children. Then I wonder if the representative has any reflections that she and the Left have contributed to increasing the nursery price year after year and giving children's families a little lower finances and raising the threshold a little more so that children can participate in the kindergarten community, and that there is a new government that now provides cheaper kindergarten for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2040	Since I myself am in that category, it is tempting to use myself as an example. Kindergarten prices have risen slightly year by year, broadly at the same level as the overall price increase in society. In addition, in recent years, parents have been getting more child-responsive, and one thing we also suggested in our budget, which the government has now removed, is an increase in the tax deduction. This means that most families with children go out for about a year. in zero with the budget for which the majority is going to vote today, compared to our budget. What we did when we had power, and I'm very proud of it, was to make sure that over 40,000 children from low-income families have been given almost free kindergarten. This is the group that was forgotten when the majority here invested at a low maximum price. I also think it is right to have a low maximum price, but a price of 3000 kroner is still too high for many families who might have a home parent. It's the kids who need us all, most of all.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2047	The sum total does not match the reference to Melby, because when you take the tax arrangements for this government along with the welfare goods, the families of children come out better now than they did under the right-hand government. If we take into account the moderation scheme of the representative from the left, it only applies to families with a total income of less than NOK 600 000, so there are many who do not benefit from this scheme. Now we're going to decrease the threshold, and more people are going to participate in the kindergarten community. I want to go to the SFO and free core time for the first class, for the representative Melby stated in the election campaign of the Address Paper that the road to free SFO ‘is paved with waste.’ I could not have disagreed more. I believe that this is an important welfare promise that allows more children to participate in the SFO community. Does the representative continue to state that the free SFO is a waste of the children who are now taking part?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2056	I'm very proud of our priority, which means that the families who have incomes of less than 600,000 kroner can now afford to send their kids to kindergarten. I think it's a perfectly correct priority. And they don't get a cut in the kindergarten price, that's what I get, and a lot of other people with higher incomes, with the politics that the government parties run with SV. I think it's a wrong distribution policy. I also have my opinions attached to the SFO. There is no doubt that many places are the price of SFO too high, and there are many people who will not use the offer precisely because of it. But it costs many, many billions to provide free SFO for absolutely all children in Norway from 1 to 4 steps. The government, along with SV, is now doing half a day's work in 1st class. This means that those who have incomes of between 600,000 and 700000 kroner, who have second, third and fourth grades, do not get any free half-day space. What kind of priority is that? We believe it is right to give priority to those who cannot afford it, instead of lubricating thinly to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2063	The left's climate policy has been synonymous with increased fees flat for everyone, both people and industries, and a blind belief in the market. Now the government and SV provide a number of powerful and targeted measures and efforts on green shipping, hydrogen, strengthening of Enova, use of forests and, in particular, the establishment of Bionova, which will help bring down agricultural emissions – to mention something. There are concrete measures that will bring about green, climate-friendly conversion and reduce emissions. What is the climate policy of the Left in addition to a blind tax increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2070	In order to achieve a green transition, we need to make it easier for people, businesses and the public to make green choices, and that is what is at the heart of the Left's climate policy. Therefore, we believe it is right to charge for what creates emissions or pollutes – that the polluter pays – but then we have also been dedicated to lowering taxes and helping to make it easier to make the green choices. That's why we've fought with beaks and claws for example. to maintain the benefits of purchasing an electric car and to extend it to business operators. That's why we've had a historic commitment on rail and on a collective, unparalleled, which makes it easier for people to choose to travel environmentally friendly. So what is a successful climate policy is a climate policy that both ensures that the polluter pays, and makes it fairer and easier for people to make green choices. And the policy has proved to be effective, because emissions have fallen while the Left has been in government. It's the first period in our history that those emissions have fallen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2077	The previous government, where the Left had the Minister for Climate and Environment, reinforced the climate target and refused to count on Norwegian forests in the climate accounting, although Norwegian forests bind approximately. 10 million tonnes of CO 2. Instead, self-pipping and costly symbol policies such as sky-high charges, electrification of the base and Langskip carbon capture project have been pursued. Long-distance shipping is a new moon landing project that already cracks by 1 billion. kr. The price tag is now more than 24 billion. NOK to cut below 1 pst. of the total emissions of Norway. Does the Left have a pain limit for Longships, or does there not exist a pain limit and budgetary framework as long as climate action is concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2085	What has been important for the Left in implementing a green transition is to ensure that, while cutting emissions, we also create new, green jobs for the future. I want Norwegian business to be competitive, and now we see that in an increasing number of countries in the world, it is precisely the companies and businesses that are betting on the green solutions, which are the winners of international competition. The fact that we make clear demands on our businesses, that we also focus on important projects like carbon capture, for example, is important in order to succeed in both parts, both cutting emissions and creating new green jobs. In the case of a project such as Langskip, a very large and complex project – and there is no doubt that it has a high cost – that project must be kept under constant review and, of course, we must do what we can to keep the costs of such a project down. We have not set an absolute limit on what is the maximum price of such a project, but there is no doubt that it is important for both Norway and the world that we succeed in carbon capture and storage.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2093	The free principle at school should be strengthened and not weakened. I and SV think it is deeply unfair that many children are excluded from the community because they do not have the opportunity to pay to be in the play. I am pleased that the agreement with the government parties rolls out free SFO for children throughout the country according to the Oslo model, which we in Oslo SV are proud of. In Oslo there was a huge class distinction between the schools where there was low participation. An example is Mortensrud School, where participation increased from 30 p.m. up to 99 pst. and experience shows that this works. Need test is a degrading load for most. At the same time, we know that women's participation in employment and income are being pushed into this. My question to Melby is then: why does a liberal and feminist party call for a system in which women's opportunities for participation in employment are set against children's opportunities for play and learning and sharing?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2102	I've met many of the families who get free core time in the kindergarten. I haven't heard a single one of them say that they think it's degrading. On the contrary, I have met several of those who think it is very good that their kids can finally go to kindergarten, and that many of these women are given the opportunity to either participate in school, education or be in the job market. Today, we have very good arrangements to make a difference in terms of income. It's not like you need to crawl to the municipality to get a free space. This is very easy to deal with. I believe that if we're going to spend billions more on education, on giving equal opportunities, it's not ensuring those like me a free SFO space right prioritize. Then I think we should give priority to those who need it the most. So I think we're going to spend the rest of the money on ensuring enough professionals, making sure that they have the skills they need, and that all the kids who go to the SFO get an offer of quality, because it doesn't help to go there if the offer doesn't have a good quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2109	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2114	After all, in an election year, the government budget is based initially on the budget that the previous government had, so I would also like to congratulate you on a short-term budgetary agreement. Some of us know that is quite demanding. The draft budget for the Solberg government, which was also a part of the Christian People's Party, prioritised measures that ensure the sustainability of our society. We bring the oil money usage down to normal levels. We help those who are most affected by the crisis, and facilitate new jobs, the green shift and increased skills. We make forward-looking investments in children and young people. We strengthen the initiative on the leisure card, so that children and young people can participate in activities regardless of the family and parents' wallet. We propose an increased parental deduction of up to NOK 2 100 for each child in addition to the first child, and we strengthen the quality and competence of kindergarten and propose funds for a child coordinator. We propose a thousand more hospitals and a pilot with investment grants for security housing, so that more elderly people can stay at home and live their own lives as far as possible. Climate action is reinforced by a higher CO 2 tax, a commitment to train and public transport and a green platform, and aid to the world’s poorest country is higher than the aid rate. Fortunately, there is broad agreement on the major lines of Norwegian policy. Many of these cases have also continued in the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV. I would like to say that the distribution profile of the tax arrangements in the budget agreement is good, and a number of good social initiatives are proposed, for example. keeping child rights out of the measurement of social assistance. At the same time, I am also disappointed that the government actually manages to take unnecessary and unsocial cuts. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV will remove the leisure card, which will allow children and young people between 6 and 18 years of age to participate in leisure activities, regardless of their mother and father's wallet. The voucher of NOK 2000 means a lot for young people from low-income families, in order to pay membership fees and quotas for everything from corps to football. Rather, the red-green parties had room for our parental deduction proposal, which would mean a lot to the small children's families. Neither the budget of the Støre government nor the agreement with SV give some signals about how they will straighten out the future, where we are getting more and more older in Norway. We need to build more old-age homes across the country, which give older people a safe old age, and that the red-green cutters are the proposal to build security housing in the district, are poor old-age policies and poor district policies. All older people should have safe dwellings wherever they live. The free schools meet a tougher time after the red-green cut in the capital grant is a reality. It is also difficult to understand why the red-green parties want to weaken the deduction of gifts to non-profit organisations. It means something to the communities. Finally, it is incomprehensible to the Christian People's Party that SV can help cut over half a billion dollars in aid to the world's poorest when we are in a global pandemic and the climate crisis strikes those who have the least, the hardest. The money would include: went to education and the work of the World Food Programme to combat hunger, but the red-green parties obviously have other and more important priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2136	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2141	Like the representative Vervik Bollestad, I am concerned about children's ability to participate in society regardless of their parents' economy. We know that alienation starts early for many, and that it can have consequences later in life. Unfortunately, the Christian People's Party's care for families with poor finances was not followed up with action when the party was in government. On the contrary, the Christian People's Party has contributed to a series of unsocial cuts that have hit this group, which cut in the spectacle support and cut in the children's supplement for the disabled. At the same time, the nursery prices have increased, and the government Christian People's Party was part of, did nothing for all the first-graders who stand completely outside the SFO – one of five first-raters do it, and that's because parents can't afford to use that place. It's not about freedom of choice when you can't afford it. Why has the Christian People’s Party taken the support of the most vulnerable families and cut off their services?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2148	I would like to remind the representative that when the red-greens were in government, one should actually iron the child's poverty with a pen stroke. It wasn't done. There was no increase in the one-off benefit for those who had a child. There wasn't an increase of one penny in child care. There was no free SFO or kindergarten space for those who needed it the most. It has actually been the Christian People's Party's priorities – in addition to wanting a parental deduction, so that those who have the least, can also get back on the tax bill. Then there is something that the Christian People's Party has actually provided – in addition to the leisure card – is to give priority to families with children, with targeted measures to help. I said in the pulpit that I am pleased with the reversals that have been made, but they are not made by the representative's party. I'll give that rose to SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2155	I record that the representative from the Christian People's Party must go back to eight red-green years to explain what the representative himself did not get in the eight previous ones. But let's talk about another matter: holiday pay for the unemployed. For many, everyday life is difficult to get into a hectic family life, and we hope that many will get their hectic family life back next year. The government of which Vervik Bollestad was a member, cut off holiday money for the unemployed in the draft budget they presented – which the representative also shares with his predecessor in the Christian People's Party, namely Prime Minister Bondevik. That government also removed the holiday supplement for the unemployed. Why does the Christian People’s Party feel that holidays are not important to families?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2162	I first have to comment on what was said that I looked back eight years. For me, the distinction does not go by New Year after eight years – we have been in government or supported a government for eight years, and we have been concerned with the situation and poor advice of the families. The representative asks if the Christian People's Party is occupied with holidays. Yes, the Christian People's Party is very busy with holiday – even for those who have been unemployed. But it's been a priority. We have seen that the issue of holiday pay can also provide a basis for staying in the unemployment that you have been in, so we have said no now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2169	I noticed with interest the representative of Vervik Bollestad's flaming commitment in view of the weaker people in society. Some of what she was not in the house was, among other things. how the Christian People's Party views business policy and the framework laid down there. It would have been interesting to hear the views of the former Minister for Agriculture that she did not want to go further in the additional agricultural compensation negotiations. It seemed as if she was sitting waiting for a new government to come and solve it for her. I see from the financial position that we have to deal with here today, that you don't want to add money to the settlement that you agreed on after you got a new government, and you had a new one in agriculture. What I'm really asking is, what line does the Christian People's Party see as going forward in strengthening agricultural conditions in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2176	Is there anything Christian People's Party has been involved in for eight years — both in government and by supporting a government, and before that — is the situation for Norwegian agriculture. The additional negotiations involved costs to be calculated and they increased rapidly in the autumn. That is why the Minister of Agriculture agreed with the industry that we should add this to the new government because we should have real costs on the table on the day of the additional negotiations. It was to be investigated on a real level. It was done after agreement with the industry itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2182	The previous government proposed that those who receive disability benefits and have a very small income in addition should receive less social security. For example: a disability benefit at the lowest rate, which is NOK 240 000 today, and is so lucky that you can work a little and earn NOK 40 000 a year, the Christian People's Party seriously suggests that those people lose NOK 14 000 in disability benefit before tax. But also those who engage in voluntary work would be punished. If you, for example, who are in favour of people with disabilities in the municipality in which they live, and make an effort and get a few thousand dollars a year, the Christian People's Party seriously suggests to draw those people into social security. I wonder: now that the Christian People's Party is free and frank and out of government, will they agree with the Advance Party against this cut, or will they still fight for a shortening of the disability?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2189	No one should take from the Christian People's Party that we are concerned with caring for those who serve at least, or those who are unable to work and get disability benefits. We are concerned that in the case of those who go and get an assessment of whether they can work or not, society is going to be able to find out so early that they are going to get a clarification as soon as possible. So the Christian People's Party wants to challenge all the way, considering that you can work, you're going to get paid for it. It was just supposed to be missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2194	I am pleased that the representative Vervik Bollestad and SV have a common desire to lift families out of poverty and make sure that the children do not suffer. The Christian People's Party has made an affordable effort to increase child welfare for the smallest children, but they have nothing for children from 6 to 18. The Church’s Bymition has recently conducted a survey of young adults who have grown up in poor families. They say that poverty became more difficult to live with the older they were, and it was most difficult in high school. Now, in the budget agreement, we've been able to stop the shortening of child welfare for all children, we're introducing free core time into the SFO, we're reversing the cut in glasses and child allowances for disabled people, and in the SV's alternative budget, we're proposing to increase child welfare for them from 6 to 18. Does not the representative of Vervik Bollestad think that this is a good move to reduce poverty and inequality? And isn't increased child welfare that can be used freely for what you want, also important for 6- to 18-year-olds?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2201	Christian People's Party and SV have in common to work to increase child welfare. I know that the party tried when they last sat in government and did not get to. We've been in government for two and a half years and got it done for the 0-6 year olds. For those from 6 to 18, we were engaged in leisure activities, because we know how important it is for children and young people to belong to and be part of the community. Being engaged in leisure means a lot to contact and social networking. It meant that the Christian People's Party, by model from Iceland, has chosen to start an introduction to this. This now puts an end to the possibility for the 6- to 18-year-olds. In addition, they cut the parental allowance, which would have just been added to the child's pension for the youngest children. Free core time for the kids who need it most in kindergarten and SFO will not be the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2206	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2211	The Hurdal platform points out a new and fairer direction for the country, and the state budget for 2022 is a clear expression of this. This is a budget that shows that it is the turn of ordinary people. It is the most redistributive and greenest that has been adopted in the Storting in many, many years. The budget for the next year, as it is now presented and has a majority, has some clear commitment. We're going to get more people working, and we're going to have a safe, organized working life. We need to strengthen our common well-being across the country, and we need to cut emissions and create jobs – in line with the Labour Party's election promises: work, well-being, climate. Work first: The Labour Party promised in the election campaign a strong commitment to getting young people to work. Although unemployment is on its way down after the closure, we see a disturbing pattern. Long-term unemployment is high at the same time as many new jobs are published. The unemployed, many of them young people, do not have the skills required in the job vacancies. It is a serious sign that the community must take. In the budget, we strengthen Nav, so that they can work more outlyingly and outlyingly. It's strong to meet the young people who get a job because Nav is doing his job, and now they're going to do more. We are intensifying the work of getting learning places in place for everyone; we are starting to escalate into a doubling of the trade union deduction; we are strengthening the Norwegian model – in total a powerful start in an important area for this government. So well-being: we need to ensure that our important welfare services reach people, regardless of address and wallet. That is why we are strengthening our hospitals, including: to provide better help to those with mental illness and to relieve the pressure on the many who are now at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic. It's in a lot of trouble. That's why we're strengthening the community economy; it means more teachers, better care for the elderly, and security close to people. And that's why we put the maximum price down in kindergarten, introduce free half-day space into the SFO for the first-graders and provide cheaper dentistry for young adults. There are important welfare reforms in the Workers' Party's programme, in the Workers' Party's 100-day plan and in the Hurdal platform – a clear new direction where we strengthen welfare services and ensure that they reach everyone. Last but not least: this budget helps cut emissions and create jobs. We're doing that by strengthening the entire state toolbox. We allocate more to schemes that trigger private investment, such as green growth loans, the InvestEU and green shipping borrowing schemes. We are now moving forward in the development of important regulations and framework conditions by giving priority to the promotion of areas for the production of sea wind. And we are strengthening state support for actors that are developing and scaling up climate technologies, by increasing the scope of Enova, by starting and starting with Bionova, by ensuring better testing facilities in Siva and by more than doubling the efforts of the previous government on hydrogen. After eight years of carrying out many unsocial cuts, the new majority has cleaned up. In this budget, we ensure that those who go on redundancy payments, and who risked standing on the ground after New Year, are not thrown out of the scheme. We guarantee holiday pay for the divorced and unemployed both in 2022 and subsequently as a permanent solution, after it was terminated by the majority in 2015. And we ensure that children who need glasses will get it regardless of their parents' finances. The last almost two years of shut-down and pandemic have shown us how important it is that we have an economy that can cope with crises. We've been able to use oil money to keep the wheels going. In a reality that's more normal, in the years to come, we'll have a completely different and less room for action than we've been used to. It has therefore been important for the government and budgetary partner SV not to increase the use of oil money in this budget. We have made that clear. We've kept the tax promise we gave the voters. Those who have incomes below NOK 750,000 have been relieved; those who have much need to contribute more to the community. This is a budget that, for the Workers' Party, means that we are complying with the 100-day plan, and that we are implementing a large part of the Hurdal platform, on which the government and SV have now participated. I finally want to thank SV for a good, close and constructive cooperation. Together, we have a budget that takes us in a fairer direction, and that cuts emissions and creates jobs. We've shown that we had the political community to find solutions. So we found it here, working on the budget in Stortinget. It was a work that required a lot of us, but we came up completely in a tone that promises good for the years to come. We provide for a better everyday life – not for the few, but for the many, common peoples throughout our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2234	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2239	In the Hurdal platform, we can read that the government believes that European power cooperation should be continued and strengthened – and we have discussed electricity prices a lot in the debate today. At the same time, the Minister of Finance stood on the pulpit earlier today and said that the Norwegian boom shifted power to ACER and made more energy policy driven from the EU. I have to assume that the Minister of Finance is speaking on behalf of the government, so my question to the Prime Minister is really: Why does the government think so? And on what basis can the government claim that more energy policy is now managed by the EU? What concrete decisions has the EU taken on Norwegian energy policy lately — or, where appropriate, decisions taken in ACER?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2246	There have been differing views on energy cooperation and the role of ACER. We've dealt with this very thoroughly at Hurdal. We will continue to be part of cooperation with the EU. We're still going to be part of an energy cooperation where Norway actually has a lot to contribute to the green shift that is now to be done. But we are also concerned that we should take care of Norwegian interests, so that Norwegian power is given priority, and we should really bet that the pure power can contribute to our power-generating industry. The government has fixed that. We have benefited greatly from the exchange of power with Europe in times where it has been beneficial for Norway, and we are involved in a cooperation that I believe is important to ring around, and which the government rings around. Then there is a debate in all countries about the high power price that is in the vast majority of countries, and I think that there is a solution each country has to take responsibility for finding, but there is a way through European cooperation because we all depend on finding good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2255	I thank you for your answer. I then assume that what the Prime Minister here says is that there is no basis for claiming that more of the energy policy is now managed from the EU. We all agree that we should take care of Norwegian interests in energy and power policy as well, but I think it is strange that the Minister of Finance is standing on the platform here and saying something else – so I hope the government can agree on this. I also want to take the opportunity to ask the Prime Minister about all the proposals that have been made in Stortinget today to remedy the extremely high power prices we see. The Prime Minister did not talk much about this in his speech. I now see – and it is said – that you have to work with a solution. However, the Prime Minister can guarantee that that solution will be put in place quickly, and that it will be targeted, so that it really monks for those who need it the most – instead of that there will be enough of a solution like the one you have seen for the electricity tax, where you lubricate it thinly to everyone, but without giving particular effect to those who need it the most right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2262	I think the electricity charge is going to have an impact on everyone, so it's one important contribution. Many of the social reforms in this budget help those with the most difficult economies. They get some relief – they get it in taxes, they get it in welfare benefits, with more reasonable kindergartens and SFOs, etc. It's also important for the economy. I think the proposal promoted by the three parties that have a majority here is very good. It points out that you want to make a financial contribution, that you want to meet the households that have been hit most, and I think that is targeted and correct. Then we're going to work out such a good solution. This is well, as for all of the solutions that are outlined from different parties, which will first come to payment over New Year's. But that's also the time when people get the power bills, and we have to be in place with a solution then.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2270	It has been negotiated at Stortinget for weeks without any consideration being given to all the disabled, the pensioners and the families who are now simply afraid that they can afford to pay their electricity bill. The government here in the Chamber spends the most time on – and also on those who belong to the government parties, and to the extent that the Minister of Finance – is talking about the Right and the Advance Party and what has been done and not done. What is at least a fact is that prices have never been close to being as high as they are now. So people want to know, what are you going to do? The Progress Party has proposed to take control of the power cables – it does not want to be dealt with urgently here. We have proposed NOK 4000 in cash to all households because the money has to go out now. It's now Christmas, it's now the bills also have to be paid, and therefore it's urgent. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that money will be paid before Christmas, and that people will know what the government intends to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2277	I refer to the proposal put forward by the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV, which is a proposal that takes seriously the situation of many households. We're making a financial contribution that can go to those who need it the most. I refer to what we have adopted in this Chamber on strengthening housing, and I refer to the budget we have presented, which will improve the economic situation of people who for eight years have had to see that the party of the representative Listhaug has consistently cut off benefits for those who need it the most, who have consistently prioritised tax relief for those who have the most and who have consistently allowed power policy to develop in a way that contributes to our being where we are today. Over time, we need to provide Norway with new renewable energy. It's about power from sea wind, from wind on land and from our hydropower, in arranged forms. So it's a big job to do, a job that the representative Listhaug can't be very proud of what the Progress Party has contributed to in the last eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2284	This Prime Minister’s watch consists of galloping electricity prices, high-recorded diesel and petrol prices — and charges are to be further raised — food prices increasing and increasing, and interest rates that are also rising. In addition, the Labour Party and the Centre Party are now failing Norwegian oil industry and Norwegian oil workers in the most serious way. The Prime Minister has said that the industry will develop, not be liquidated. Nevertheless, there is a budget agreement with SV, a party that wants to shut down the industry, which means that this is going in the wrong direction. You agree to stop the 26th concession round, which means less exploration, fewer finding, fewer jobs, less income to Norway and giving power to Russia, Saudi Arabia and other countries. Why do the Workers' Party and the Centre Party fail Norwegian oil workers and leave power to a party that will shut down Norwegian oil and gas industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2289	It was a geopolitical analysis of the budgetary conciliation that will be read with interest. I am not sure that Saudi Arabia and Russia are exactly cheering a day, but this draft budget is a good compromise, among other things. on the 26th concession round. Today, there is high activity on Norwegian soil, high activity in Norwegian industry. There is no priority for the Workers' Party to have a 26th concession round in 2022. So we've agreed on that. So the picture that the representative draws, when she talks about the failure of the oil workers and the destruction of an entire industry, I think she should be careful about drawing. There is an industry The Workers' Party has been involved in developing. It was a time – now the representative is not busy talking about the past – but it was a time when the Progress Party and the representative of Listhaug wanted to put this on offer to foreign companies and give up Norwegian ownership. We've developed that industry. We're going to do it further. We're going to do it in a way that develops new technology, cuts emissions, and creates jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2294	First, I want to return the Prime Minister's thanks for the cooperation. This has produced good results, and the country is getting a much better budget. The consensus around it gives us an opportunity to look a little bit ahead. A few days ago, a report came from a number of the country's leading inequality researchers, pointing to what we've known for a while, that's not just the main reason that the differences are increasing, that the richest ones are moving away, but that the differences are much larger than you've thought, because the economic elite in Norway has great values in their companies that to date haven't been counted on. It also makes that if you get more inequality that way, you don't have the progressive tax system we thought we had in Norway, but one that's regressive at the top, that's that they pay the most a smaller share than the usual people do. My question is simply: is that report on the radar of the government when you start working on next year's budget if not for that long?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2301	I think it's one of several reports that should be on the radar of more than the government, but also the government. We want to have a tax system that is redistributive, that contributes to investment, and that triggers the best in Norwegian society. The system shall help us to afford the fissile layer in an efficient and good way. I think we have made this tax system fairer in the short weeks we had to create budgets, among other things. with SV. So yes, it's on the radar, and we have to work hard on how we can set up the tax system so that it contributes to it. Then there are a number of other conditions that need to be developed to allow people to live on their own income, get into work and deal with difficult life situations, so that they can contribute and live on their own income. So yes, this is a report I think we have to bring with us. A tax range has been set up to provide different perspectives on the functioning of the tax and all forms of tax reform in Norway are usually supported by a good professional basis and this report will contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2306	In the ‘debate’ on Tuesday, infant mother Anita Bjørnvig Knutsen said that the electricity prices are crushing the Norwegian working class, and she pointed out that many are now terrified of what is happening to Christmas, and that the economy can be destroyed for a number of families, not least for those who have poor advice. The paradox is very clear. We have hydropower as it costs approx. 10 to 20 cents to produce, and then it is sold for up to 6 cents per kWh. This gives massive revenues to the state. That income we think we need to go out quickly again to people to save them through Christmas. Then there's a proposal from the government parties that has a good intention, but that's a little vague, that's to come back to the Stortingen with possible measures. Does Gahr Increase the need for some more firm decisions in the Stortinget today to get the money back to people?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2313	I've responded to it a few times now. That proposal is a good proposal to promote solutions that can relieve the situation for those who are now experiencing a tight economy. It is very serious for many households and especially for those who have run the economy. We're going to get back to that. So I would like to reiterate once again that our draft budget means firm solutions for ordinary people with a normal economy, through taxes, fairer kindergarten, more reasonable SFOs, who will also contribute to their economy. But the proposal of the three parties is aimed at relieving the economic situation, especially for those who are hit hardest by the high electricity prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2320	An important climate action is a good and environmentally friendly collective service. We've had a very good growth in the collective provision in Norway for almost 20 years, an adventurous growth. The zero growth target has been reached in the large cities. The OECD commends Norway’s zero growth target and urban growth agreements as one of ten examples of good climate action. Now the collective societies and the states have major problems because of the coronary apathy. In the agreement that has been presented, which you've come up with, 500 million have been added. kr. Right, Christian People's Party and Left have added 850 million. kr, but the previous blue-green government spent $2.75. to public transport in the current year. My question is: will the Prime Minister guarantee that the collective offer will be as good when we get out of the pandemic as when we went in, or will the first people meet with a red-green government, that the collective offer is getting worse?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2325	What has been a major challenge for public transport, especially in large cities, is that many have worked from home offices, been less on their way to work, less on their way out – there has been less traffic. This has also led many people to drive a car when they have been out, to have less contact with other people. When the pandemic has decreased and you have lived more normally, the habits are not back where they were. Not as many drive collectively, and there are several still driving cars. Now we're in a situation where we have an increase in infection. We have renewed measures. We have a mutant in the virus that we need to deal with. So getting the traffic back to where it was before the pandemic is not done without further action. That's why the government is committed to being able to support the collective societies as well as possible, and then we hope that we will quickly return to using the collective offer. The way it has been recognised and wanted by the passengers, is something I think we can come back to when we get a situation where it is normal and safe to get to work and work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2332	The Prime Minister could not know that the electricity price was going to be as high as it has become. The size shares the same scepticism, the fear of what may come, and how long this may last. Today we are discussing the 2022 budget, and I want to pay tribute to some of the measures that are in place, just to help with what is going to be demanding for many: to pay the bill. Then we have made a proposal today that is about even more targeting, because the electricity charge will hit everyone – ordinary people, yes, but it will also hit unusual people. When the Prime Minister is so concerned about helping those who need the most, is he prepared to look at measures that make them more targeted at those who have lower incomes, those who might need an extra handshake over the winter? The second is that, as I said, we are discussing the 2022 budget, but we know that there are many who get big bills both in November and December this year. Is the Prime Minister prepared to find a solution also for 2021, when the effusion is to be treated in a short time?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2340	Now, first of all, I want to repeat that the budget we have put forward means that I have a device that helps ordinary people and their economy – and that's an economy they're going to use to pay, among other things. electricity costs and other costs — both through taxes and some of the services that are now made available more reasonably. Then I repeat the proposal put forward here by the three budgetary partners about electricity, where it is underlined that it should be directed towards those who have special challenges with high electricity prices, and to be able to give them a handshake.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2347	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2352	First of all, it is with pride that I find out what the Workers' Party-Center Party administration has done together with SV in this budget agreement. We actually see the people who need to be seen from this hall, that's what this is about. We'll make sure there's less difference. Those who make less than 750,000 dollars are going to get reduced taxes, they're going to get increased above. Municipalities, one of our most important welfare producers, receive increased free income, just to strengthen well-being. We cut the maximum price for kindergartens, we put free core time into the SFO, and we increase the commuter deduction, which of course means a difference in the economy of people. We're removing unsocial cuts introduced by the right-hand government. We also strengthen the opportunities for work, through several action areas, several long-term job creations. This is also a historic green budget. The main instrument of climate policy is to make pollution more expensive, and I agree with that. It has also been said by several Right-Representatives here, but they have omitted an important prerequisite for the green shift, and that is to facilitate that we can exchange fossil energy with renewable energy. Then we're at the core of some of what's the central discussion here today, also related to power prices. It's that after eight years of right-wing government, they haven't prepared us enough for the possibility of switching from fossil energy to renewable energy in the green shift. Nor have they been able to prepare Norway and the Norwegian energy supply for the fluctuations and uncertainties that occur when a phase out of Europe’s base load and exposes much of Norwegian energy supply to what comes from it. It is bad craftsmanship, and it is particularly bad craftsmanship that they come into this debate and try to put the responsibility on the government that is now sitting. It is in the best possible words at least a discharge of responsibility. When it comes to handling the green shift, there has been a LO/NHO report showing that we might need to reach 60 new TWh by 2030. What's granted concessions on, and that might be during startup, is between 7 and 9 TWh. It shows how badly preparations the right government has done. The governance target of the previous government's energy policy was just Tord Lien. He wanted more expensive power, he would make renewable energy more profitable by building more power cables abroad, and in 2016, when we processed the energy message, he was tired of low power prices. That is an expression of how an oil and energy minister thinks, how he governs, and how he prepares the country for the future ahead. He also wrote, or at least stated that the next decade – he said this in 2016 – he would rebalance the Norwegian power market, increase consumption and bring down the power surplus. I have to say that he has succeeded one hundred percent. It's done too little, and in that recognition, demanding situations come like this. So the government that is now sitting has done more in a few days than the previous government did in eight years. We cut the electricity charge, while the right-hand government increased the electricity charge. We have arranged for those who have poor advice to receive increased support through housing support. We have proposed today – and we actually mean something about it – that we have to get back to Stortinget quickly with solutions that reduce the financial burden on households in the short term. It's a demanding situation for ordinary people now, it's serious about the high prices, and we're taking it seriously, of course. I am not sure whether the simple proposals – many of those that have been promoted today – actually take it seriously. Now we have to deal with the situation, and then we have to build an energy supply and a system that will prevent us from eventually getting into the same situation. Unfortunately, that job did not do the right-hand government. That job must be done by the current government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2367	After the previous speeches, I am already looking forward to next year's throne debate, where this country is going to be perfect. But it has good assumptions, because after eight years of right-wing government, Norway is one of the countries that so far, at least, has made a good deal of progress through the ongoing pandemic, and employment is speeding up as the economy normalizes, as I – bank on the table – hope to stay in the time to come. Of course, the fact that a lot is good doesn't mean that everything is good. Although the inequality in Norway is low compared with other countries, there is a shortage of opportunities for many people. The fact that Norwegian companies now report that labour shortages are their main challenge for further growth means that the Solberg government has ensured that the Støre government has a unique chance to include more people in the labour market. I think the next two years will be crucial, but in two important areas, the government is going in the wrong direction – and probably more. We know that good education is fundamental to preventing inequality and poverty. Completed high school is the key to working life. Now we see that fewer falls from, and that more complete high school. The absence limit has clearly contributed to increased presence, which is particularly important for the weakest students in order to complete and pass. Secondly, the quality of the teacher in the classroom is the main factor in the success of the students. But the government of Stører removes the requirement of absence for the students and lowers the requirements for teacher education. It testifies to a lack of ambition for our children and counters social mobility and opportunities for everyone to succeed in life – regardless of social background. This also has accompanying defects. When the lack of skilled labour is the biggest challenge for Norwegian business, it is not to lower the requirements for school and education the answer. At the same time, job shortages are increasing outsidership and inequality. We know that having a job to go to is more than just work: it's mastering, including and sharing. But now taxes on people and businesses are increasing throughout the country, even for enterprises that are still in deficit or experiencing a fragile rise. This means that businesses may have to prioritize taxes rather than employment. At best, it will slow growth in Norway and the business world — at worst, it will stop. In addition, the news is that the government is introducing pensions from the first crown, for which we are too, but they are already doing so from 2022, without time to adaptation and without temporary compensatory measures. In other words, the government of Støre adds up to what is called a perfect storm, where many elements strike at the same time. Tax increases that make it more expensive to maintain or create new jobs come at the same time as increased expenditure on pensions. This is particularly true of industries that are now most uncertain and most vulnerable to measures and closures, such as restaurants and travel. Incidentally, there are also those sectors that just consider many of those who will benefit from pensions from the first crown – students, women, young people and others with a loose link to the world of work. A prerequisite for getting a pension from the first penny is that they have a job to do. Right wants both. There's a lack of ambition for students at school, which leads to alienation, there's a lack of skilled labour, and it makes it more expensive to feed and give people jobs. It doesn't sound like the government is so happy all over the country. The last time the Workers' Party and the Center Party joined the government, they also had SV with them. Then the record oil prices, income from inheritance taxes and generally higher taxes had. Nevertheless, more were in health queues, more young people dropped out of school, and there were 15,000 more poor children. Higher taxes are no guarantee of more well-being, but now it seems that higher taxes are the most obvious guarantee we have. Norway has all the opportunities to succeed in both green and inclusive growth that takes full use of Norway. After eight years of right-wing government, we have a robust economy that's been through a pandemic, and we see that employment is speeding up. That promises Norway well. I said that the next two years will be crucial, and I really hope that the government will succeed. It deserves Norway and everyone who lives here. I'm going to pay tribute to all of the suggestions that give Norwegian children opportunities, which enable Norwegian businesses to create the jobs we want people to be included in, and that we get a new, green industrial adventure on the shoulders of the business we have – even if the proposals come from the Støre administration. But today I am voting in favour of the original budget of the Solberg government, because I think that is a budget that provides opportunities for people throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2392	Today, something less than two months ago, Minister of Finance Jan Tore Sanner presented the government budget to the Solberg government. He then held the financials, and it was built around a girl named Ida, born in 2000. The finance minister said nothing about where she was born, but she was hardly born a place where the bus went twice a day. Many suggest that she lived her life near rail transport, for the Solberg government budget was a centralist budget. The budget we have now is a budget that sees the whole country. It's a budget that cares about people who live outside, who see people who live outside. Thus, we have measures such as cheaper ferries, more money for broadband, charging stations, more for local police and – one of the most important initiatives – 1 billion. kr more for Norwegian food production than that contained in the Solberg Government. The name of the Minister of Agriculture was Bollestad. She had additional negotiations on her table, but let them go, because she didn't get the government to compensate her agriculture. Borch County Council quickly settled. Bollestad 0 - Borch 1. But the Central Party and the Government don't have just a budget to think about what's going on. We also think about the people who live in the middle. If one wonders where inside Rogaland is, it's Suldal. In Suldal there is a road called rv. 13th@item: inlistbox There it is. Several times in the month there are large stones on the road. It's been for years. It has our councils from Rogaland. They have a hot horn and a hay, they're called Bollestad and Bru, they're called Nybø, and they're not least hot Solvik-Olsen. They have known that there have been large blocks of stone on this road. They didn't do anything about it because it wasn't cost-effective. It wasn't socio-economic profitable. Something else was more important. Saving 4 minutes on a highway was more important than everyday life for people in Suldal, and so they didn't prioritise it. Now, after a few weeks, we've got money in place, and one can start building a long tunnel past the racial stretch on Rv. 13 in Suldal. That means that the family can run in the same car again, not split into two cars. This means that you don't have to look at the clock when you know that the school bus should run through the race field. It gives people the quality of life. If Ida were to feel like busing elsewhere than there is rail transport, this would make it easier to move to Suldal. This will make it easier to send the kids to school in Suldal. That is what is a concrete example of a policy for the whole country. There has been a lot of talk about power today — and with good reason. I am pleased that we have given the government the task of looking at measures. But it's especially that those who have been responsible for the last eight years don't want to have a discussion about why we've ended up there. The representative Listhaug said she thought people cared about the cat. I think we can discuss this, so people can look and choose if they want to make a decision about it or not, whether they think it's important or not. We in the Center Party think it's important, because we have to learn from the errors that are done. Therefore, it is relevant that an oil and energy minister who wanted more expensive power and who got more expensive power. We also see now when the Progress Party is going to criticise the government's industrial policy, that they are talking about oil policy as if this were something to lay down Norway, Westland and Rogaland dead. But that's not it. There are small adjustments. We further develop the oil and gas industries. It is worth remembering that in August, the representative, Mr. Listhaug, would attack the dwindling government on a minor change in the tax system. One hammer released completely to Norwegian oil and gas was out and said that maybe that change is not so stupid – yes, we support that change! Then one saw clearly that the Progress Party did not even read the suggestions before criticising them. It has been common to say that a good budget has been better. That's not what I'm going to say. I'm going to say that a poor budget has been good.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2411	The Progress Party is accused of not reading proposals, and then it is tempting to say that it is heard that the representative Pollestad has not read the Workers' Party and the Central Party's supplementary document to the budget, because he has spent half a minute and a half talking about the impact on racial protection in Suldal, to which the Workers' Party and the Centre did not find a single penny in their budget. I think it's a little strange that he spends half a minute and a half boasting so much of SV's victory without even crediting SV. Subject: Representative Kaski said that they have prioritised their negotiating efforts. The representative Lighthouse said that they have chosen the most important first. I think it's worth noting for the minimum pensioners, for the students and for the power customers – that this time they didn't get up, because they're not the most important thing for SV. In the last eight years, the Progress Party has contributed to reducing the curtailment of pensions, removing underregulations, and increasing the pension by a total of NOK 21 000 for single minimum pensioners. In the state budget for 2022, both the SV and the Progress Party had spent money on increasing minimum pensions. Unfortunately, SV chose not to give priority to this in the negotiations with the Labour Party and the Centre Party. I followed closely what the negotiators said both before and after every single negotiating meeting. Not once did Kaski and SV mention that they want to thank the minimum pensioners. Unfortunately, the SV sacrificed an increase in the minimum pension, despite the fact that they were with the Progress Party before the summer and would raise the minimum pension above the EU poverty line. We would think that raising the minimum pension above the poverty line was an important step in combating social differences, but unfortunately, once again, when SV gets a hand on the wheel, they forget about the pensioners. The Progress Party believes that the minimum pension should be increased. That is what we propose in our alternative state budget, while proposing to further reduce the curtailment of pensions for married and cohabiting pensioners, which will mean approximately. NOK 10000 more per year per couple. The progress party worked for the pensioners in position, and we work for them in opposition. SV has worked very hard for them in opposition, but not in position, and I fear now that today's debate signals the beginning of four lean years for the pensioners. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV have also been high-ranking critics of the student initiative for the last eight years, which I think has been very strange in terms of history. With the Progress Party in government, we were able to contribute to a student promise. The last time the red-greens had power, the studio stood still. It was built approx. 900 student homes a year for the eight years the red-green crashed last. Since 2013, there have been an average of 2,200 student dwellings built this year. The study support has been increased, and 11 months of study support has been introduced, so that a student now has almost NOK 15 000 more paid a year than if we had left the study support at a red-green level. The progress party is proud of the job we've done for the students, but we're not in the goal. First of all, we want more student homes to be built. We want to set aside money for the rehabilitation of old student homes and that the student support should be increased and locked to 1.5G. We're proposing that in our alternative budget, and we're putting almost $300 million in it. kr to it. It would be a natural continuation of the student promise we had to make in 2013, after the students had been a balancing post for eight red-green years. I really thought that there was going to be a new student promise after all the criticism we've had in the last eight years, and not least everything we got against in all the debates that were in the election campaign. The Workers' Party and SV opted to increase the support for the study, while the Centre Party would increase the purchasing power of the students. SV was most offensive, they promised an increase of SEK 75 000 per year. In the SV's alternative budget, they proposed an increase in study aid of around NOK 12 000 per year, as a start. The result was zero kroner, and there will be no more student homes than what is being built this year. While the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV have worked for the students in opposition, they again show that they forget them when they are in position. The progress party worked for the students in position, and we work for them in opposition. I fear now that today's debate also signals the beginning of four lean years for the students, where they once again become a balancing item in the budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2432	We have a new government that has presented changes to a budget that is very good for our country, that really puts ordinary people first, and that moves Norway in a more fair direction. Cultural life also notices that there is a new government. With the changes we've made in the right-hand side budget, we're pointing to the cultural promise we're going to get in the next few years. We prioritise – and we listen to – sport, volunteering and culture, and we speed up gender equality policy. Culture, sport and volunteering have long been the main requirement and need for full VAT compensation. We'll do that for next year. But not only that: we introduce full VAT compensation also for the current year, in the new phase of the budget. It's very good news for teams and associations all over the country, who get more money to travel with to the activity of people and children and young people. We're going to spend $300 million. kr more than the previous government on culture and volunteering. We're strengthening the artistic economy. We believe it is time to call artists and cultural workers for workers. They've had to be in the hands of the work force for too long. They shall be treated as workers. The industry has been through two tough coronary years, so we're spending 80 million. kr for actions that directly take the artists' groups well. We add up to 120 new artists' scholarships, more to the Cultural Fund, more to the Audio and Picture Foundation, to the music festivals, to tour support and to work and activity throughout the country. We're going to spend $25 million. kr more on film, and I'm especially glad that the Sami Film Institute is getting a big increase – it's time. Then we strengthen journalism, the pillar of our democracy, by ten million. kr. All of us, through the corona pandemic, have well learned the importance of the investigative journalism, and our locals, with the thorough journalism, are also one of the reasons for the high trust of the Norwegian people in the authorities. So we're strengthening local journalism in this budget. After eight years of right-wing government and gender equality in reverse, we have shifted gear and are pursuing a more offensive gender equality policy. People in Norway will live a free life regardless of who they are, regardless of gender, gender identity or legation. But this is not the case today: we have major challenges related to economic autonomy, negative social control, violence and harassment in close relationships and in working life, and to women's health. LHBTI individuals have a consistently lower living conditions than the rest of the population, and transhumance and discrimination are particularly common among transhumance individuals. The most important thing we can do to move on is to make them work like every single day to increase equality across the country, where people work and live, able to do more. That is why we are strengthening and spending money on equality centres, on organisations working with equality, LHBTI and anti-racism. Twenty million. kr more we are using to strengthen grassroots work for a more active equality. We want to build a regional gender equality structure, and therefore we also give equality centres an increase and recognition of the good work they do. We're on our way. The equivalence shall be achieved in the future. Culture, volunteering and sport shall be lifted, and this budget shall indicate a clear direction for the new Central Party – Labour Party Government. Now is the turn of ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2453	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2458	First, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate Anette Trettebergstuen on his post as State Council. In today's debate, the Labour Party has talked a lot about the petty cuts of the previous government. If there's something really petty, I guess the Workers' Party will scrape the successful gift-enhancing system – that's what I'd call a reverse. In private gifts to culture, the state tops it by 25 pst. of the sum. Since the scheme was introduced, 2 500 small and large institutions have actually enjoyed this. In my home district it is Johan Halvorsen's Music Festival, Laagendal Festival, Blaafarveverket, Vestfossen Kunstlaboratur, Hallingdal Museum – to name a few. It's not big, heavy institutions, but small institutions, that have enjoyed this. I ask now: can the government guarantee that those who have now received funds, which are quite small, will be compensated when the state or the Workers' Party will take over this distribution, and no longer use the gift-enhancing scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2467	We're going to wind up the gift-enhancing system. It was against us when it was created, and we have had predictable alternative budgets for many years where we prioritise the gift enhancement scheme. In our opinion, it is not fair for a share of the state budget – or now the funds, which eventually became the case with the right-wing government, even more unfair – to be allocated to actors only according to one criterion, and that is whether they have and attract private money. It is not that the private stop giving money even if the gift-enhancing scheme disappears. On the contrary, most of those who give to small and large organisations in Norway are foundations that are designed to give gifts. So it's very important to say that when they reach 70 million. kr that has been used by the right-hand government by the gambling funds in the gift-enhancing scheme, does not disappear, it is not such that the money disappears. No, the 70 million. kr shall now be allocated as otherwise distributed, in a fair manner between relatively small players throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2474	I take note of this with justice. The budget has increased during the Solberg government, and this is about 1.5 billion. kr over several years. It's small money that's going to age around the whole country. It has to be a motivation to just look outside the state, you have to get more legs to stand on. I don't know – is it more fair that the Workers' Party should decide than that it is the small organisations that can take the initiative to apply? So we know, of course, that the Saving Bank Foundation will continue to give money, but then maybe only to the big ones, and it's actually the small ones that will fall through.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2480	No, I don't think that's right. On the contrary, the large foundations say that the gift-enhancing system is not an incentive for the donors. Nor is it the case that small and large organisations and institutions only work to get more legs on because of the gift-enhancing scheme – most of them in Norwegian cultural life have so many legs to stand on because they almost stumble, because they do not manage without being active against the private ones as well. We believe that the 70 million. kr should be allocated according to fairer criteria than only those who receive private money. Looking at the overview of who benefits from the gift-enhancing scheme, it is almost only in the big cities, in the central Eastern regions, that the actors receive, while in Utkant-Norway the gift-enhancing scheme is very little. Now this money will be used as a tipper, on small and large players spread fairly across Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2485	I want to commend the Council of State for taking one of her first tours to the Capital of Culture, Bergen. But there it stops, because already there the Council of State warned that there would be a case where one would wind up the gift-enhancing scheme – to great frustration for the cultural life of Bergen and many others. What was then demanded was what the Council of State would possibly do to replace this scheme. They did not get an answer to that. I think it's incredibly sad that you first get a case where you attack private donors, for example. in the case of tax deductions for gifts to volunteers, and now – now it has to be stopped. This is done at the same time as it is known that this scheme has given closer to 2.3 billion in recent years. D to cultural life, by private fertilization. I wonder, why is this urgent now, when you haven't even taken the time to evaluate the scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2492	The previous government wouldn't evaluate this arrangement, and I get the reason for it, because it's a little fancy arrangement, to say it like that. So this is not what the representative says, that the gift-enhancing scheme has made billions of private contributions. The contributions were already there, and they had also come without reinforcement by the state. If the representative believes that the gift-enhancement system should be replaced by another system that allows the same actors to receive money, yes, then we should just leave the gift-enhancement system behind. But we've been against this system and we've been saying for many years that we're going to wind it up. Now it is that the deadline for applying expires on 31 December, so everyone who applies until then and has budgeted with gift enhancement for the next year will receive that money. But from 2023 it's over. And then we're going to spend that money a fairer way. Then I hope the representative Hemdal also noticed that after the visit to Bergen there will be more money for CODE.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2499	I am very pleased that the government and SV agree to provide voluntary organisations with full VAT compensation, and I was very happy when I heard that this will also apply to the current year. It's very, very nice. So the feedback from the entire voluntary field of culture is that the most important thing for them is that this VAT compensation is done according to rules. They believe that it will provide better predictability, faster payment, etc. We didn't get through that in the budget agreement, so I wonder what is the Minister of Culture's reason for the resistance to something that volunteering itself believes is one of the most important things.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2504	This is a matter that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have been through for many years. Fulfilling the greatest desire and the most important demands of sport, culture and volunteering, full VAT compensation, that they get back every penny they pay in VAT, has so much to say for their ability to operate even more activity out there in the city and built across the country. That is why I am pleased that we have not only received full VAT compensation for the next year, but that we have been able to get full VAT compensation for the current year as well. So when you're going to make the system rule-driven, so you don't have to think about how much money you have to add in the budget to make it full, you need a little more time than a week and a half, which was the time we had to make an additional proposition. There must be a set of criteria for a regulated VAT compensation, so that is what we are working on now towards the 2023 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2511	We should keep the gift-enhancing system, but I'm going to take another case. The council says in its statement that the government spends $300 million. more on culture in the draft budget. But that's not really true, because in the budget for culture, the government spends 250 million dollars on government spending. kr i reduced rental costs at the National Museum to finance other fixed operating costs in the same sector, i.e. culture. It does not change even if SV gets some extra funds into what is reconciled. Since next year's growth in cultural resources is now financed by funds that will not be available in the future, my question is: how will the Council of State guarantee the cultural budget for subsequent years when the National Museum then needs these funds back in its regular operation, i.e. the 250 million. Do you really want to delete this item? How, then, will the second increase be secured, which is now included in this budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2518	It is true that there will be a one-off cut in the equity that the National Museum has built up, because the museum is now under construction, not operational, and that there is a phase shift in the project. So there's been room to take some of that equity. It's not going to go beyond the National Museum's ability to drive communication, and we're all looking forward to the museum opening in the summer. It'll be great. I appreciate the question from Elvestuen. We've said in the Hurdal platform that we're going to raise culture, and that also means that we need to spend more money on culture. In the context of the 2023 budget, we come back to what the cultural promise and the one-percent calculations will contain. I am delighted to present to this Chamber the further cultural budgets, because if there is one thing the government agrees on, it is that culture should be invested in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2531	Then you'll have the cord shift over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2536	The corona pandemic continues to create uncertainty for many individuals, families, communities and businesses. At the same time, we should be glad that the economic crisis is over. We came out of the crisis with a strong business life. It has provided the basis for a sharp decline in unemployment and growth in employment. We need to return to 2012 to find an equal level of employment for residents in Norway. The projections for 2022 are good for the Norwegian economy, for unemployment and for employment. It is therefore good that the government is at the level of the government of Solberg on oil money. We have to count on tighter budgets in the coming years, and the fund value will be able to fluctuate more. There is therefore a need for an uncertainty buffer in the rule of action. We should be clearly below 3 pst. in good times to be able to use the economic muscles at times. During the crisis, there were more than 400,000 unemployed and outsourced. Businesses now lack labour force. In other words, we have gone from an open-end queue to a queue of vacant jobs. In the future, therefore, we need to succeed in education and competence policies if we are to ensure high employment, increased value creation and well-being. Here the red-greens go in the wrong direction. The budget agreement implies a weakening of the working line, a weakening of Norwegian ownership and a weakening of education and competence policy. Our government succeeded in getting more young people to choose a professional course. Several completed high school, and many new measures were put in place to ensure that adults were able to acquire new skills in order to get to work and to be able to work. In addition, we implemented an integration reform aimed at ensuring the competence of refugees to participate and contribute to working and social life. For 2022, we proposed new measures to allow even more people to complete secondary education, measures to seal skills gaps, money for more pedagogues in kindergartens, a stronger focus on continuing education in specialised education and an additional hour of natural science in secondary school. The budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV is poorly new. It does not respond to the challenges facing Norway. Once we've got a line of job vacancies, the policy must contribute to more people getting the right skills, and we need to strengthen the line of work. This is not something that can be done in one year. It requires a long-term strategy and commitment. For 2022, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV contribute to weakening the educational, competence and work lines. The red-greens spend the big money on cheaper kindergartens and SFOs, not for those who have the least, but for everyone else. Our government had cheaper kindergartens and SFOs for low-income families in place. It was important to include everyone, and it contributed to more people coming into kindergarten, especially children with immigrant background. When the red-greens now have to lower the price — not for low-income families, but for everyone else — other important measures are cut at school. The red-greens spend the large amount of money in school freezing today's school structure in the municipalities through a grant per school. At the same time, money to go to children and young people who have lost valuable teaching time during the pandemic was cut. Young people with knowledge gaps could lose important measures. The teacher-specialist system is being scrapped – a system aimed at ensuring new career paths and increased competence in several disciplines, particularly in the field of initial training, which was a priority. Students in secondary school lose an extra hour in the field of natural sciences — an hour that would contribute to more varied and practical education and strengthen students’ competences in the field of natural sciences. We also see that it is cut in higher education and research. It is understandable that reactions have come from students, from universities and from universities. One budget does not change everything, but it shows a direction, and the direction now is that knowledge and competence are downgraded.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2561	Today I am primarily very proud. The budget agreed between the Government Parties and the Swedish Government is fully supported by good social-democratic policies. There are policies that reduce the social differences between people, there are policies that strengthen the universal welfare systems, and there are policies that bring people back to work. Yes, it's simply politics for ordinary people. The right-wing government spent its eight years ruddering to give the most to those who had a lot from before. The tax reliefs to the richest have been funded with unsocial cuts to those who have the least, but this shot we are about to turn now. However, the unemployed and on leave will receive holiday pay. Those receiving redundancy benefits shall no longer risk ending up on social assistance because Nav or healthcare has not been able to treat or clarify them quickly enough. The system of children’s spectacle support shall be improved. The victim shall not receive a cut-off of labour income from the first crown. In addition, I would like to stop and say: I am sorry for the uncertainty you have experienced during the last few weeks. Rarely have I received so many e-mails, messages, telephones and taggings in social media from people who had doubts about this proposal – people who are disabled, but still do a social effort with their ability to work, as support contacts, as local politicians, through the rule of law, as diplomats and with other important contributions. You were heard. It was useful to say from now on. In addition, I am pleased that the child supplement for the disabled is reintroduced. Children have had less opportunity to participate when the family economy is weakened because their mother or father has become ill. The working party voted against this in Stortinget, and now we get it back together with SV and the Center Party. When I became rapporteur in the former Ski municipality in 2015, we already decided in our first budget that child welfare should be kept out of the calculation of social assistance, and in my first harvest in position at Stortinget this is now a national standard. I have to admit that this is more than I dared to hope for in this first budget. So when I say I'm proud and happy today, I mean it honestly. To balance social differences, we need to take more steps. It's about work, it's about universal well-being, and it's about a redistributive tax system. I will bring forward two important steps this government will take to ensure that work becomes a real way out of poverty. We will set up a low-income commission with social partners and follow up the conclusions of political action to reduce income disparities in Norway. It can't be that they keep pulling away from the top. We will implement a full-time promise in cooperation with municipalities, hospitals and the social partners. We want to strengthen the right to full time in the law by demonstrating that there is a need for a part-time job. It is too easy to reveal small job breaks to get the cabal to go up – at the employee's expense. In this budget, we also take important steps to get people back to work. Working for everyone will always be the number one job for the Working Party. This is why we are increasing the allocation of labour market measures so that more people who are outside the labour market are given qualification and assistance to get to work. The number of young unemployed has doubled on Erna Solberg's watch. We can't afford that. Both the individual and society are losing their way. That is why we are also strengthening Nav. Increasing staffing in Nav is an important step in strengthening the role of the agency as a labour service provider and in addressing priority groups. The representative Sanner pointed to the gap of competence we have in society today. There are job vacancies, but those who are unemployed do not have the competence to take those jobs – and after eight years we have the skills gap with the government that Sanner himself represents. Outdoors start early and may have consequences later in life. That is why I end my enthusiasm today with one of my heart matters. One of the first five classes is completely outside the SFO today – many because the price has become too high. From next year we can finally say that all the first-graders are going to be in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2583	This fall we have experienced record power prices. The reason for the price shock lies in gas prices in Europe, which have multiplied, and a rapidly increasing price of CO 2 in the European allowance market. According to Volue Insight, the electricity prices would have been somewhere between 40 and 50 øre per kilowatt-hour this fall if the gas prices and the CO 2 price had been at last year’s level. We don't have to go back any further than last year to find an average price over the year of about 10 centimeters per kilowatt hour. However, the fourth year’s prices are a poor comfort to all those who have now received electricity bills that are far beyond what you can and should expect. The right, Christian People's Party and Left therefore propose a targeted scheme to remedy the situation of households that are now struggling with electricity bills. We propose increased housing support and an extra NOK 1000 in scholarships for the students. At the same time, we propose that all households with a total household income of less than 1.2 million. NOK 750 per household in lower electricity bill. For a family of four, it will mean 3,000 kroner lower electricity bill in winter. Three out of four households will be covered by our proposal. The high electricity prices we've had in the last few weeks, no one could predict just a few months ago, but they were well known to the government when the supplementary proposition was made, and even better known when the budgetary agreement between the SV and the government parties was launched just three days ago. Nevertheless, there were no material proposals that would help ordinary people with the electricity bill when the budget officials presented their proposal on Monday. From the Minister of Finance, we have today received no more than knowledgeless excuses. He owes to Norway's connection to Acer, as if Acer is responsible for the current prices we have now. In fact, on the contrary, ACER is the place we can now complain that the Swedes are now holding back electricity that would have gone to Norway. The Minister of Finance also referred again to an eight-year-old opinion from Tord Lien, which was taken entirely out of context, and which was about something quite different than the price of electricity to Norwegian households. The representative of Aasland also has a mildly specific understanding of the situation when he believes that the current electricity price is a result of poor craftsmanship by the Solberg government. Since 2013, more than 16 TWh of new renewable energy has been deployed, and there has never been as much investment in the electricity grid as in the last eight years, and at no time in the last eight years has the Workers' Party intended anything other than the government on the development of our electricity system itself. But let me not, to a large extent, disturb neither Aasland nor the finance minister's reasoning on the facts, even though a somewhat more reasonable approach could bring them both a ferniss of credibility. The centre party has also blamed Norwegian cross-border connections, in particular the last two, as the centre party agreed to build when they last joined the government. But even if the Minister of Finance and the representative of Aasland were to ignore how power systems work, or if they deliberately speak against better knowledge, none of them can explain that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are proposing to increase taxes on business by 10 billion. kr and increase the dividend from Statkraft by 2,3 billion. kr – without finding money for targeted schemes thatmongers to help ordinary people across the country, in whom we are so happy, with the electricity bills to be paid this winter. It's with respect to report too weakly. I understand that the representatives of the government parties need to talk away and blame others, but the voters won't let themselves be deceived by it. We need to encourage Norway to have reasonable electricity prices for households and to be an attractive place to facilitate new power-generating activities, whether battery factories, data centres or new power-intensive industries. It is then necessary to facilitate the development of more renewable energy on a large scale. The Solberg Government introduced hydropower taxation in order to make it more attractive to invest in new production and upgrade existing production. At the same time, we need to get speedy in the management of wind power on land. In this respect, the Government is to revise the Planning and Building Act, and this work must be prioritised in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. The maximum potential for new renewable energy production lies in sea wind. In this context, it is urgent for the government to clarify the framework conditions to be followed by the actors. The future of Norway as an energy province is also in the production of hydrogen based on natural gas, with the capture and storage of CO 2. Even with a massive expansion of renewable energy in Europe and energy efficiency improvement through electric cars, heat pumps and post-insulation of buildings, large amounts of energy added will be needed. Here, blue hydrogen from Norway can play a significant role as a zero-emission energy carrier. In order to do so, it is important that the government clarifies that no CO 2 fee is to be paid for CO 2 captured and stored through the production of blue hydrogen. The right will propose this in the tax proposal, and I hope that this proposal will be widely accepted in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2621	I must admit that as a newly elected staging representative and new member of the Financial Committee, the time has come since former Finance Minister Jan Tore Sanner handed 13.5 kg of budgetary documents to the Prime Minister and until today's financial debate has been a little overwhelming. It is easy to get lost in all the details: yellow book, national budget, trade propositions, supplementary numbers and budgetary settlements with SV. But what's the big picture? How will people notice that we've got a new number of large-scalers, who want a new course for the country after eight blue years? The draft budget for the Workers’ Party, the Centre’s Party and the SV are united, proposes significant investments in welfare and climate action that, combined with tax and tax changes, provide a fairer Norway – a Norway where good life is to be possible, no matter where you live and what background you have. It is a budget that facilitates security and good services near people. An important step in the budget is the strengthening of the free revenues of municipalities and the reversal of the cut in services to resource-intensive users. The signals I have received from the municipalities are that it is absolutely necessary for the municipalities to afford to provide good services where they live, so that they can ensure that more children are raised safely, that we get help when we get sick, and that we know that the elderly are being taken care of properly. A good health offer is important to ensure people’s safety in everyday life. All over the country there are reports of hospital congestion and health professionals. The budget strengthens hospitals by 700 million. kr, so that we can bring down the waiting times and stand better rusted to handle the RS virus and coronary apathy. The scheme is under pressure, and we are therefore increasing efforts to recruit permanent practitioners with targeted measures. After eight years of increased differences in income and wealth, this budget takes clear action to provide a basis for good life throughout the country — by making life easier for those who live ultimately, literally and in transferred meaning. Ordinary people will receive less taxes on their own income, and fewer will pay taxes on wealth. Fees that hit people the most are reduced, and welfare services like kindergarten and SFO are getting cheaper. The right side presents it as dramatic for the economy and for the country that the government distorts the tax burden against those who have the strongest back to bear it. The Solberg Government has given priority to reducing the level of taxation by more than 36 billion. kr in the last eight years – tax cuts financed by reductions in public service output and cut in services and benefits to ordinary people. The biggest tax reliefs are given to those with the greatest wealth and who live in the most central strata. The 1 000 richest people in Norway have a total of 2.2 billion. kr less in taxes on wealth since 2017. This failed priority must be reversed. The centre party believes it is right that people with large assets and revenues should contribute somewhat more to the community, thus giving room to strengthen the public service and reverse many of the unsocial and unfair grips proposed by the Solberg government. We have therefore ensured the extension of the social security period for those on redundancy pay. In addition, the periodicals and the unemployed will also be entitled to holiday allowances next year, so that they can plan holidays with the family. Cuts in children's supplements and free income for the disabled were also removed, and cut in the spectacle support for children being reversed. It's important additions that show that we're serious when we say that we want to balance the social differences. The budget also priorities 4 billion. kr to smooth geographical differences. District policy is reinforced by efforts to strengthen the community, growth and development of the country as a whole. An important step is to take greater responsibility for broadband deployment in areas where expanding business is not economically viable. We work to ensure that people living in the outermost regions are given security for jobs and incomes, that they go to school in the local community, and for good health and safe food supplies. The Hurdal platform set out a new and more fair course for the country, where people across Norway will again experience that their lives, interests and the challenges they face in everyday life are at the top of the agenda. The proposals now being promoted are a first step towards achieving these objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2644	In the last 20 months, society has had to live under a pandemic, and it's been too heavy for many. Worst of all, the pandemic has hit our health care system. Nursing and health professionals have been in the front line since March 2020, tying their teeth together and providing the very basis for society to function while the pandemic is going on. For us in the Progress Party, it is important to show gratitude to those who have gone ahead in the fight against the corona virus, and in our alternative state budget we grant a salary increase of 3 percentage points in addition to normal wage growth to all nurses and health professionals in the public sector. That means that an average nurse gets NOK 15 000 more to go with this year than he or she gets with the red-green budget proposals. The lack of nurses is a marked crisis. We have a great lack of nurses already today, but the SSB projections say that we will lack as many as 20,000 nurses in 2035. In order to overcome the shortage of nurses, we need both paylifts and more places to study. It delivers the Progress Party in our alternative state budget. Throughout the pandemic, there has been a pre-requisite to ensure that we avoid overloading the health care system. Intensive sites are the basis for this, and in order to avoid new closures, more intensive sites are needed. That's why the Progress Party has 500 million. NOK to this. A robust healthcare system with enough intensification places is important, both in the current situation and for possible crises in the future. At the same time, we see that there are fewer and fewer daily places in psychiatry, which means that many people do not get the help they need. With the alternative state budget of the Progress Party, we clearly show that we are taking mental health seriously. In addition, if there's something that makes me frustrated, it's that the government doesn't have the ability to reverse the proposal for an increase in self-interest. This goes out on those who labor the most. In addition, it is not the case that the increased excess equity is spread throughout the year. With the government's proposal, it means that many have to pay almost NOK 3000 in medical expenses and treatment during the first few months of 2022. When this comes to the top of the sky-high power prices, there's going to be a significant extra cost for a lot of people who are already struggling with the economy. We can't have it like that in Norway. The government tried in the same way at the budget last year, but then the Progress Party put its foot down and reversed the publisher's increase in propensity. We're proposing to do that again this year, too, but we don't get a majority for that, because the government parties and the SV have come together to increase the proportion. There are as many stories as there are patients. Fortunately, most of them are stories about people who get the help they need – and a better life. Unfortunately, there are too many stories about people who are forgotten or who are not given the offer they are entitled to. When you hear stories of lonely elderly people who have been left home without electricity, without food and follow-up, it sticks in the heart of all of us. Such stories that we've heard from Grue over the past few weeks are simply not worthy in the world's richest country. In too many municipalities, there is no ability to prioritize care services, and we need to put an end to this. It must come to an end that councillors and local politicians age the municipal budget with the care of the elderly. That's why the Progress Party has a total of 600 million. to extend the sample scheme for state-funded care for the elderly. The Progress Party believes that all older people deserve valuable care for the elderly, regardless of the economy of the municipality in which they live. It is basically about care and warmth of the heart.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2663	The Department of Knowledge has an old school desk with books, ink boxes and pens. It has seen governments come and go, see state councils accede and three of them – and even survived on 22 July. Just like my predecessors, I walk past that desk every day. It's a reminder of who we go out and into the ministry are for. We are for our kids, for whom we are going to create a daily everyday life with security, mastery and learning joy, but also for those we are going to equip for the great tasks that await us, in the face of climate crisis, digitisation and the challenges that the welfare state faces. The books on the desk are a reminder of what has happened, with their chemistry and discretionary writings from the 1930s, but also a reminder of what is to come. The old books are also a picture that the way we run school changes, while at the same time it's pretty much equal to almost 100 years later. We've come a long way in building a strong kindergarten community and a strong common school in Norway, but we know that we haven't gotten far enough to give all the same opportunities to live the life they want. After expanding the education offer to Norwegian children and young people for more than 200 years, the education system continues to reproduce our social differences. What qualities are achieved, what educational and professional choices you take, and whether you are able to carry out that training, are very closely related to both social and geographical backgrounds. This relationship has not diminished in the last eight years. The policy of the right-wing government has, rather, contributed to increasing social and geographical differences in Norway. There is a problem this government has put at the top of the agenda, and intends to do something about it. Therefore, it can't be surprising that a policy for more knowledge and less difference was the perspective we agreed to when we made changes to the Solberg government's budget proposal. Firstly, with the draft budget, the government will include more children in kindergarten and school. That's why we set the price of a nursery place for the first time in eight years, while increasing the skills and staffing of kindergartens. The highest entry price and the lowest level of competence of the part of the education that can be the most significant for children and the development of young people cannot be considered. I am also pleased that we in the budget ensure a more inclusive school, by making the school leisure system available to more people. Second, the government wants the students to have mastery at school. Then we need a school where the students get to work more practical and more varied. Our students are engulfing the school as whole people, with all the talents and opportunities they carry. As a society, we can choose to expand or restrict their ability to succeed. Our goal is that the school should help to expand the possibilities for each individual. Then Norwegian school must also have room for each one. With the draft budget, we are going away from the tightness of favoring individual subjects in school and increasing the number of further training places in practical and aesthetic subjects. Thirdly, students and apprentices need to be better qualified for working life and higher education. Last year, 7 000 students lacked a place to study. With the draft budget, we are investing funds to mobilise more apprenticeships so that both young people and parents can experience professional skills as a safer choice. Pupils who are struggling with learning places must have earlier and closer follow-up, with the aim that more people not only complete and pass, but also be truly qualified for work. Where you come from must mean less where you're going in life. That's the government's clear ambition. Our kids are going to meet at every crossroads a community that sets up more. Those who work at school will receive earlier and better help in a more practical school. Those who lack a course and therefore never receive a degree will now have new opportunities. If we're going to do it, we're going to have to rust up the kindergarten and school to meet a greater diversity of children and young people, and we're going to have to include everyone. Everyone has to experience mastery, and we have to make sure that everyone is really qualified, both between the different levels of education and beyond to work and education. That's the direction this budget is staggering, and I'm proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2682	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2687	I notice that the Council of State emphasises that the government will have less social differences. There is no doubt that eight years of civic government in school policy has contributed to the school’s contributing to less social differences — by the completion of more students and by the fact that the students who have had the weakest starting point are most likely to rise. Now that we look at the direction of the budget agreement that has been presented, the most important promise of money per school is to freeze today's school structure. At the same time, there was a cut in money to close the gaps in knowledge for students, teachers' specialists, and for training in the field of natural sciences to contribute to more practical teaching. How will these approaches help the school to reduce social disparities, when knowledge is prioritised down and old school structures are prioritised?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2694	It's tempting to start by saying that the right seems to prioritize old speech points up and actually read the budget down. This is a budget for more knowledge. I can go to the heights of why. We know that the important thing for children and young people to learn more is to have a good teacher, and that we have plenty of teachers. An important part of hiring more colleagues for the good teachers we already have is to strengthen the community economy. We will include more children and young people in the important community it is to go to kindergarten and have an offer of SFO. That's why we're giving priority to lowering the price. It's also good for soft transition to school. So we're concerned that all our children and young people will get into school as whole people, whether they prefer to sit still with a book or to use arms, legs and other physical objects to learn things. That's why we're concerned with a more practical school. All of this, together with several steps we are going to do in the future, contributes to more knowledge in school, and I am absolutely convinced that this budget is helping to support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2705	A good community economy is important, but in our reign there were several qualified teachers in school, and there have never been so few students per teacher. I agree that we should have a more practical and varied teaching. That's why we proposed an extra hour of natural science in high school. It could contribute to students getting more varied and practical instruction. The focus of trade renewal is precisely on the need for natural sciences to be sought-after, irritating curiosity and contributing to diversity in teaching forms, but this is a priority for the new government. Instead, money has been prioritised for cheaper SFOs, not for the low-income families, but for everyone else. When you go through and see what the government has cut, it's just about competence and quality and what could contribute to more varied education.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2712	For all of us who are engaged in community and universal schemes that also support and unlock both tax systems and welfare goods, it is better to have universal arrangements that are accessible to everyone than that a few have to come by hand and ask for help. That being said, it is not that the moderation mechanisms are not possible to have at the same time the nursery rate and the SFO price are reduced. It's fully possible to do both parts at the same time. We know that our young people have the lowest motivation level at any time in school while they go to high school. That's why we're busy doing something about both the motivation and the content of high school. It's the Hurdal platform that's clearly on it. It is striking that the right of the last year – of eight years – they are in government, putting in a whole new science class at the youth level, which may be right, but the first thing they do after they lose the election and walk out of government offices is to put in a proposal also on a secondary school reform. I'm busy doing this in a complete and good way, and I'm going back to how we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2721	Co-operation between the state and the municipality and private kindergartens has been a very successful welfare reform, and private kindergartens have been very important for what is most important for families with children: ensuring adequate childcare facilities. Most private kindergartens are of high quality, they represent a high level of pedagogical and content diversity, they have consistently lower sick leave, they operate effectively, and they best fit for parental studies. Last year, the Progress Party was able to stop the cuts from the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and we got the Labour Party and the Center Party in the criticism. That is why I am very surprised that the Workers' Party and the Centre, with this year's budget proposal, are choosing to cut even more in the private kindergartens. I wonder what has changed since last year, since they now add up to cutting even more – and actually even more than what is the total operating result of private kindergartens in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2730	After all, it could be heard from the representative, Mr Steffensen, as if it were cut in operating grants for private kindergartens we have proposed in the budget. So it's not. We propose to reduce some of the overcompensation of pension expenditure received by private kindergartens over the year. In 2019, private kindergartens received about 1 billion. NOK more in compensation for retirement than they had of real expenses. It's not a reasonable use of taxpayers' money, it doesn't create legitimacy for public transfers to our welfare services, and it's not necessarily money that works for our children in our kindergartens. My goal is that we have a funding system for both private and municipal kindergartens that are fair, where the money goes to the children, and where we don't have large groups that have large profits and take profits out of the kindergarten sector, but on the contrary that we get reasonable in both regulations and transfers. The government has clearly announced that we are going to make proposals, and we are working on that as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2738	The budgetary unity between the government and the Swedish government, through which the Stortinget will vote now, marks a distinction, because after eight years of pressure on well-being, we are now going from defence struggle to offensive again. We are embarking on the greatest expansion of our well-being since full child care coverage, namely free SFO. And when all children can finally participate, without the parents' wallet being an obstacle, we can really start working on the content and quality of the SFO offer. As school leaders in Oslo and Stavanger say, where SV has already introduced free SFO: that's when you can plug in. Because it is the right-hand side that has not understood that the activities, the inclusion and the community you create in the SFO are just early efforts. My question to the Minister of Knowledge is: Now that all children can be involved, how should we continue to work on the content, such as competence, cooperation with cultural schools, local cultural life, staffing, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2745	I agree with the summary of why this is an important and good measure. I think, first of all, we have to follow closely the follow-up to the new framework plan for SFO. It is really quite incredible that this year we are introducing a framework plan for the SFO for the first time. There is ample room to do more for quality development in our school leisure programmes. So I think we have to follow the municipalities closely in further work on this, and I also think we need to develop some tools to increase the competence and contribute to the quality across the line to our employees in the SFO. There is also money in the budget. Then I would like to add that it is a little interesting to imagine this, as the representative of the Supreme Court was in the room: if we were to reinvent the organisation of the small step at school – and it is also a reminder to everyone who is concerned about the work line – I don't think that we would do it this way that after lunch the children have to be paid for when they are at school, while before lunch it is free. Nor does it support the participation of more people in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2756	A completely new research report shows that Norway is the worst in the class in terms of the release of commercial actors in the kindergarten sector, and it is not a pole position to be proud of. The commercial chains are getting bigger and bigger. Four commercial kindergartens together own every three private kindergartens. The report also paints a frightening picture: commercial actors are reaching a size where they can constitute a veto against political change. During these days, the Danes are implementing a reform which means that the kindergarten owners can no longer take out profits. So Denmark goes further than us, and we have to follow it. It's obvious that we don't have any time to lose. My question is, with the background of the budgetary agreement with SV: Does the Council of State think that Norway should go in the same direction as Denmark and ensure profit-free kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2767	I agree that it is frightening how much of the nursery places are gradually in the large nursery groups, and also how some of those groups go both on the stock exchange and are registered abroad. I am concerned that the money we spend on kindergarten will work for our children, but also that Norwegian kindergartens will be Norwegian kindergartens, and not objects that are subject to speculation. I am concerned that we get a better balance in how we develop the provision of nursery facilities in each municipality. This means that each municipality must have more to say in setting up private kindergartens, but also greater opportunity to say that when the children's councils go down, it is the municipal places that remain, while the private ones may no longer be allowed to continue. I agree with the ambition that there will be no large profits on the operation of kindergartens, and how we will achieve that, I will return as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2776	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2781	It's been an exciting debate so far. We're all worried about what the high power prices mean for ordinary households, and especially those with little ones, there were several of them under the petty social welfare code of the right party. The 2022 budget must therefore be more than electricity prices. It's a budget with a clear red-green mark. In September, the voters gave a clear message: we have had enough of right-wing rule and favoring those who have the most. In record time, the red-green government has changed the draft budget of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party in a clear and more pervasive direction. With the budget agreement in Stortinget between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, we have put in place further action in favour of ordinary people. Option levers are available to hold. Erna Solberg's government was good at that – they should have, both Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party. 38 B.C.E. The tax cuts to the richest were paid at approximately the same amount in cuts in the social benefits of sick, unemployed and unemployed, lasting over two full periods of ageing – in other words, good, old-fashioned right-wing policies. The working party has been particularly concerned about the many people who do not need follow-up after the strong cuts made by the right-hand parties in the redundancy payments, both higher thresholds, shorter periods, fewer extensions and one-year withdrawal periods, even for those who were not completed, clarified and treated in the Nav and Health Services. The draft budget before the government change continued on the same track. But then the voters said that enough is enough. 100 red-green representatives speak their distinct language. The working party went to the elections on a program that shows a new direction: now is the turn of ordinary people. We had three concrete promises: work for everyone, enhanced well-being and a fair climate policy for new, green jobs across the country. We presented a very ambitious 100-day plan, 40 points that we would implement during the first 100 days of government. The main headline of the 100-day plan was: more return for ordinary people, including double trade union deductions, increased commuting deductions, reduced prices in kindergartens and SFOs, removal of unsocial cuts, including the reintroduction of holiday money for the unemployed, spectacle support for children, ensuring that people on a job basis are not thrown out of social security and on social assistance or private care, halt privatisation of important welfare services, create jobs and cut emissions, and last but not least, a serious working life with full, permanent jobs. As well as all 40 points are included in this budget, signed out or started. In addition, the government has today announced that the pension from the first penny for everyone should be in place from the turn of the year. There is not part of the treatment here today, but comes on its own to Stortinget before Christmas. Thus, a great, great injustice is corrected. Now there will be retirement provision for all, including in the private sector, in accordance with the same principle as in public occupational pensions and in the social security system. It will especially benefit those who serve at least, women, part-time employees, seasonal workers, students and other young people — a happy message to about a million common workers. We took over October 14. Everything I have mentioned, plus even more, has been brought together by the Workers' Party and the Center Party in government and together with SV in Stortinget in less than two months. I am, as a Labour Party representative, both proud and happy. The working party is satisfied, the centre party is satisfied, SV is satisfied. The opposition is scrupulously dissatisfied, but the most important thing is the many feedbacks that ordinary people are satisfied. The trade union movement is satisfied with holiday money for the unemployed and the pension from the first penny, but what is most enjoyable is that the AAP action is satisfied, that the disability is satisfied with the fact that there is no cuts in the benefit to work a little, and that the child supplement is increased. This is among those groups the Evening Post this week called ‘unusual people’. No, they're not unusual, but quite ordinary people who are struggling with problems that can hit each one of us at any time. Taking care of one another when life is boiling is what characterizes a welfare society, and is what characterizes social democracy – both by and for ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2802	The Government of Solberg presented its draft government budget in October. It is a budget that facilitates the transition to a greener and more digitised society, that facilitates the creation of more jobs in Norwegian companies, and that we have access to the skills we need to develop both the private and the public sectors. It is a budget that is adapted to the economic situation and that addresses the challenges we face in the years ahead. This decade’s major challenge is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and address the renewable society. After eight years in government, we have reversed the trend, and emissions have fallen in the last five years. At the same time, we know that we need to implement significant measures to achieve the 2030 targets. The Solberg Government budget facilitates further reductions in emissions through clear priorities. The CO2 tax is an effective means of pricing emissions correctly. At the same time, we have to facilitate that those who have to pay more are also compensated in other ways. Electric car policy and the phase-in of river ferries are other examples of how new technologies use the charging system, and offensive purchasing policies can contribute to a shift in the green direction. The hydrogen and marine wind development project is other examples of public contribution to an early stage in the development of new technologies. These are technologies with transfer value to other areas and contribute to the development of new industries in Norway and export opportunities. If we're going to make a successful green transition, we're going to be dependent on a good interaction between both public and private companies and risk capital. In the supplementary proposal and in the budgetary agreement with SV, the taxation of Norwegian ownership of Norwegian enterprises was greatly increased – in a situation where we need more risk capital to create new jobs and contribute to green transition. In my opinion, it is completely wrong medicine and will make companies worse equipped to handle a demanding change. The budget presented by the Solberg government in October was well adapted to the economic situation, and the use of oil money is more adapted to a normal situation. At the same time, we see that the increase in infection rates and high electricity prices can and will affect the situation in months to come. It has therefore been important for us to use the space for action, for example. increased dividends from Statkraft yield, to compensate those who struggle most with increased electricity prices, through a targeted power package aimed at households, elderly, families with young children and students with low or medium incomes. This is an exceptional situation that also requires exceptional measures. It is also interesting that government parties and SV now see the need for more targeted measures to meet the high electricity costs. On Monday this week, the same parties presented the budgetary agreement with a flat-rate reduction in the electricity charge to all as the major measure. Well, that's good. Three days later, they see the need to promote a request proposal to correct their own policies, and ask the government to create a more targeted system. This could and should have been resolved in the budget agreement. Then we also choose to use the action space to strengthen public transport. We see that there are still significant challenges to the pandemic, and that this is likely to intensify as a result of increased infection in society. The additional agricultural negotiations have given 750 million. kr more to Norwegian farmers. That's good. Of course, there is something we would follow up if we were still in government, and it is therefore quite natural to follow it up in our supplementary proposal, which is promoted today. In the additional proposal, the government has chosen to cut into smaller régionalisation measures. There are measures that address minor remedial actions along existing roads, road safety measures and the provision of walking and cycling facilities. We think this is a strange priority and add 200 million. NOK extra on this item, rather than cutting SEK 280 million. kr, as the government with SV does. This means that several important projects will be implemented. Traffic is still an important area of activity for the Right, and we will continue to follow up the National Transport Plan in our future budgets. Without going into all the posts in our supplementary proposal, I would like to mention in particular the commitment to a reform of high school, which was mentioned here earlier, for which we have also submitted our own proposal for a representative. The proposal for a government budget for Solberg is a budget for the whole country and facilitates a good life throughout the country. It is a budget that prioritises more jobs in the private sector, provides people and businesses with the skills they need, and facilitates green migration and growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2830	We have a budgetary settlement that goes even further to develop the whole of Norway than the proposal that the government was going to propose in a short time. We're going to rust the country for the big problems ahead of us. The history of Norway is a story of scattered settlements, large, scattered natural resources and people who saw and see opportunities. That's the way it should keep going. The budget agreement, like the government's proposal, gives a clear direction that we should rebuild the whole country, invest in the opportunities that exist everywhere for increased value creation, and ensure that we have a population development in all parts of the country. The budget agreement follows a historically strong commitment to agriculture in a single budget from a government. In the budgetary agreement, the Government Parties and the Swedish Government agree that the government will present an obligatory and timely plan to close the income gap between farmers and other groups in society. The Center Party is pleased that we agree. It is important both for our food production and for the continuation of agriculture throughout the country. In this work it becomes important to take account of market developments, competitiveness against imports, adaptation of business farmers and that the increase in income should be realised in practice and not lead to overproduction. Agriculture has a major impact on employment, local value creation, development and, above all, preparedness in Norway. A change of course in agricultural policy is therefore necessary. The government’s very first step was therefore to conclude an additional agreement with the agricultural parties on a preliminary compensation of 754 million. kr over the State budget as a result of the exceptional increase in the cost of fertilisers and building materials. This has also continued in the budgetary agreement. Reinforcement of agricultural investment vehicles is important in order to meet the requirement to operate freely for all bovine animals from 2034 onwards. The government's proposal to increase these by 200 million. be followed up in agreement by means of investment funds contributing to the achievement of the unbundling requirement for small and medium-sized applications. Agriculture is an important part of the solution for achieving Norway’s climate commitments. The climate agreement between the country and the organisations must therefore provide the basis for the work on climate change in agriculture. An important measure in this context, as the government has otherwise announced in the platform, is the establishment of Bionova. In the budget agreement, 30 million are given priority. kr to establish Bionova already in 2022. That's good. Bionova shall contribute to the development of the bioeconomy related to agriculture, forestry and aquaculture, which many representatives have been involved in in the past. It will be an important tool for achieving the objectives of the climate agreement with agriculture. Not least, the financing shall take place outside the agricultural agreement. The budget agreement shows that the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV agree on important changes in the course of agricultural policy. I am very pleased with that. There has been a discussion earlier in this Chamber, now after the elections, about how the government wants to pursue a more active industrial policy. One of the measures proposed is to re-evaluate the whole instrument, and that is why the government has proposed and has agreed not to transfer Siva to Innovation Norway. On the contrary, Siva is strengthened through the budgetary agreement by transferring 40 million. kr extra to test facilities in the districts above the Sivas border. This is the so-called catapult system – dear children have many names – and it therefore offers test facilities for industry, which we depend on to increase the trade balance, and not least effectively supports it in terms of change and innovation. The system has been well received by business throughout the country, and I am therefore pleased that we have the opportunity to strengthen it. The five catapult centres that exist already have good geographical distribution and have established regional business networks. It's a great force. It provides a good starting point for building on the offer as the test facilities are now reinforced by 40 million. kr. There are a number of other strengthenings and changes in the budgetary agreement – and not least in the additional proposal from the government – that I believe are very good, especially to have a more active state that facilitates and contributes to the transition that is now to be made. In summary, the budgetary agreement is now on the table, a budget that strengthens important mechanisms to contribute to the transition to the business world of the future, and it should not least create more jobs throughout the country. It is a budgetary settlement where you also take responsibility for the whole and ensure better geographical and social distribution. There's a course the Center Party went to the elections on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2853	It is little that is as good as to adopt a budget that turns the arrow as much as this budget does – from those who have the most from before, to ordinary people. The election result was a perfectly clear expression of a wish for a shift. There was no longer a break-up of a policy that does not help balance differences and strengthen well-being. We presented our plan in the election campaign on how to prioritize ordinary people. Ordinary people are unemployed, they're workers, they have dental frights, they live in nursing homes, they study, they need glasses, they work as volunteers, they commute and much, much more. Common to all of them is that over the last eight years, they have experienced right-wing governments that have made it difficult for them. This government prioritizes them. Health and care services are given a new course in the future. The time for an underfunded healthcare service is over. The government of Støre is crystal clear that our public health services, which are available to everyone, regardless of their address and wallet, are to be taken care of. It's about the health of each one, about relatives and about a productive and sustainable society. A reinforced specialist health service is a very central part of this. We're securing a raise of 700 million. kr, which appears at the top of the previous government. Increased basic funding and activity growth help to strengthen capacity, and it helps to reduce waiting times and to re-establish the level of treatment we see as a result of the coronary apathy. We are clear that this should also lead to increased treatment in mental health protection and drug use. In addition, we strengthen the efforts of ACT and FACT teams because we know that there is a great need for more people to receive treatment through outreach teams, who meet the patient where they live and live. We have all experienced the consequences of the pandemic: social distance and closure. Some of us have known it a little bit more than others. Therefore, the mental health provision for the students is strengthened by 20 million. kr, which will help more people get help in a difficult situation. We strengthen the work of a low-threshold municipal service without requiring referral for children and young people, which will help more municipalities to be able to participate in the pilot. This is a start to a comprehensive work on better mental health provision, strengthening the provision of services to municipalities and ensuring that more people receive help when they need it. The community health service shall be equipped to be closely up-to-date and prepared to meet the health and care needs of a changing population. There are increasing numbers of older people who have a complex disease picture, and we need to ensure better cooperation on patients who need help from different parts of the health system. The stipulation is a foundation here. We are all aware that the scheme has not been good for a long time and that the situation has been demanding. Our decision-makers treat the majority of Norwegian patients, but cost only a tenth of the health budget. The government strengthens the fixed medical system with short- and long-term measures to ensure recruitment and stable medical coverage throughout the country. The government of Støre is adding 100 million. kr in addition to the addition of grants to specialisation general practitioners as a national scheme and to establish a medical care grant in the most disadvantaged municipalities. It's not just the definition we lack in the country. It has long been a challenge to both recruit and keep nurses, including nurses with special skills, which has been evident during the pandemic. We strengthen educational positions in anaesthesia, children, surgery, intensive, cancer care and midwives by 25 million. kr to contribute to a more stable manning and reduced need for rental. A health service of high quality and sufficient capacity depends on competent professionals in the service. We are proud that we have had a clear commitment to dental health in the budget unit. It's elongated. Dental health is one of the areas today where you can see that there are major social health differences, depending on the individual's economy. Poor dental health has consequences for both physical and mental health. We've got 100 million. SEK extra to the public dental service, 168 million. kr to 50 pst. dental discount for 21- and 22-year-olds. In addition, we will strengthen the system for those who have traumas and tooth frights that make the dental visit extra demanding, and we will strengthen the reimbursement system for children and young people who get orthodox. The sum of all of this is that we are taking important steps in the right direction so that it won't seem to you if you have good or bad advice. It's little that feels as good as adopting a budget that so much turns the arrow from those who have the most from before, to ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2883	The main right-hand health policy project is to create the patient’s healthcare. There is a clear plank in the government budget of the Solberg government. There is an important value in being the patient’s healthcare service and not the healthcare patients. There are in particular three elements in the patient’s healthcare that I want to draw out. The first is about moving power to the patient. For the right, the patient shall be able to be an active participant in the matter of his own health. In our healthcare, no decisions about you are to be made without you. The goal is that patients are met as whole people and that healthcare helps each individual to master his or her own life. The other thing is to use all the good forces, both public and private. In order for you as a patient to be able to choose the treatment or care that is best for you, you need to be able to make your own choices. Public and private actors must then be able to contribute. Right-wing government introduced free treatment options, which means that patients can choose from public and authorised private treatments. It gives the patient greater freedom to choose the treatment that is best for himself, regardless of the size of the wallet. The bill is taken by the public. To date, over 40,000 patients have used this patient right. Many thousands of them need drug treatment or mental health care. There are people who are important to have the opportunity to have power over their own treatment. But with the state budget that we are adopting today, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV deprive them of the opportunity to choose differently, unless patients can pay for it out of their own pocket. There is a two-way sharing of healthcare that the Right will not accept. Freedom of choice is equally important when we get older and need help at home or in an institution. In September, I was allowed to come home to Lillian, who lives at his apartment in Drammen. She praised the opportunity the municipality gave her to choose who would come home and help her, and she praised the relationship to home help, Eve, who was always the one who came to her, who had become a friend, and it felt safe. Too few municipalities let older people decide for themselves. Unfortunately, something is not going to change with a new government, which is working with SV, and we see that in the state budget that we are going to adopt today. Diversity, freedom of choice and the right of patients to choose for themselves are not part of their vocabulary or their policies, rather the opposite. The third, renewing, simplifying and improving, is for the benefit of the patient. We have put in place a package for cancer, mental health, intoxication and stroke, and the right went to the choice to introduce several package pathways. Package history means that the patient should know what to do, when to do so, and who is responsible for it. It shall contribute to rapid investigation and rapid initiation of treatment without undue delay. It creates security, and it creates predictability. 2021 has also been a different year. The first vaccine dose was set in mid-July 2020 and the new year began with optimism. Health professionals, students and retired health professionals have made a formidable effort around the country to vaccine the population, so that we can live almost normal. At the same time, health professionals have been working on explosives to trace, infect, test and provide good treatment, but not least do what they can to deal with all the other treatments that people have needed from health care. We know that it has taken a lot of our health professionals, and we also know that the situation related to the pandemic is unclear and critical. Dear health care: Thank you for being on guard — always. Psychiatric health has also been high on the agenda for the entire Right government period. We think it should be just as natural for you to get good health care if you have a mental illness as if you were breaking your leg. When more children and young people say they are mentally struggling, our efforts to help them need to be put in as early as possible. The right choice was to provide faster mental health care for children and young people, and the goal was to halve the waiting time. Faster and better mental health care will continue to be our important efforts. In the patient’s healthcare, the patient is most important. Today, I am voting in favour of the State budget that ensures it, namely the Solberg government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2900	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2906	We are now going to adopt a good budget for ordinary people. We're doing what we've said we're going to do. The hospital economy, welfare services, the municipal and county economy are being strengthened. The maximum price in kindergarten is cut, free core time in SFO is introduced, we start a dental reform. We're going to reverse a series of unsocial cuts from the outgoing government, as in the children's supplement for the disabled. We extend the right to work clearance. We're not curtailing the income from the first dollar. We're strengthening the children's glasses support. Holiday pay is paid to the unemployed and on leave. We turn up the pace of creating jobs and cutting emissions. Today, 49 days have passed since the voters had their wish for a new government with a new policy for a new direction for the country. We in the Workers' Party fought election campaigns, among others. with a plan for what we would start with the first 100 days of our government. We're now delivering on it, point by point. We run by the Hurdal platform and conduct a fairer policy to reduce differences between people and between cities and countries. We have to make sure that people can live, work and live their lives in all parts of the country. We make it cheaper to travel by ferry. It will be free for a good deal of island communities. So we're going to make it easier to commute by lowering the base subtraction and simplifying the kilometre rate. We're adding more funds to broadband. We're going to get more people out there, back into work. We increase the number of intervention sites and improve the opportunities for more people to participate in jobs and contribute their skills to a meaningful everyday life. There are many who are now alarmed and despaired at high power prices. It helps little that the market ensures that the electricity price in periods is down to almost zero, when we experience price records in periods where the need for households is greatest, now in the harshest winter. Here, we need to find solutions to remedy the situation. We have to provide answers that are better than what was given in 2016, as the main concern of the responsible State Council at the time was that the electricity price was too low. Our main task is to pursue a policy that provides a good and safe everyday life for people. Next year's budget will be a good tool for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2919	We have now spent eight years behind us with a Right-Handed government – a government that from day one knew what our most important project would be. We were supposed to develop Norway. We had years to figure out how to take new grips, and when we got in position, we were ready. We rolled out the one strategy after the other. We're setting course towards the green shift, drawing direction in the unknown terrain. We knew what it took to speed up Norwegian business, to create jobs and build our welfare state. We were busy, because we had a lot to deal with. We started reforming, because Norway anno 2013 was something different than it was several years ago. We were concerned that everyone should have a job to do, because it is the most important measure to prevent outreach and inequality, to promote inclusion and good societies. People in work are our most important economic resource. And if we're to do that, we have to start with school, with education, with people's skills. Unfortunately, the Labour Party Government is proposing to weaken the budget we are about to adopt today. Competence is important, knowledge is important, but it is also a strong business, because this is where the work is created. When the Labour Party administration now loses business and imposes an increase in the tax burden, the alarm clocks begin to ring. Building the country — building the country with knowledge, but also with infrastructure — is one of the most important ways to create new green jobs. It provides the basis for a lasting change for a business that acquires the skills they need, that gets the goods to which they are going and that gets people safe from home to work and leisure activities. We've taken formidable rises within the sector over the last few years. We've restructured, and we've streamlined. We've gotten more out of each of the heads, and we've inverted and tried to find new solutions. Not only are the new solutions, but also solutions that create tomorrow's jobs in the green shift, as we have done with green shipping and our commitment to building electricity infrastructure and charging capabilities. We've got an NTP, which is it overrides the document we control by. For the Right, it is now important that we keep up this pace and follow the plan we have jointly been some about. Unfortunately, this does not make the Labour Party government with its budget proposal. Already from the year one in the NTP period, we lag behind, and in addition, we see that one does not follow up the offensive initiative of the Solberg government in terms of technology and research in the field. This is where we're going to have to cut too. If we're going to build the country, it's important to get straight out of the jumping edge. We're not going to do that with this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2934	It's touching to hear the government parties' representatives from the Workers' Party and the Center Party telling us that now there's a new course. Yes, that's right – it's a new course. Transport reduces important investment resources and reduces road safety. It's about people's everyday lives. For me, there are also ordinary people walking on those roads. There are sections that are dangerous, that could have been repaired and secured, which would have made everyday life easier and not more difficult. In the presentation to the government parties, the Workers' Party and the Centre, there is a touching concern. A new course – yes, it is. Fuel taxes are being increased. The car charges are increased. It's a new course. For me, it's not about securing everyday life – on the contrary. They talk about all the working groups, income groups, ordinary people, workers. It doesn't make it any easier when we have a power crisis. We have a fuel crisis with the highest prices of the times. It's an alert food crisis. Then this budget of the government is not about solving challenges for most people. I am disappointed in today's debate. When you talk about power and the high prices and what government parties and government will do, the government parties with government councils and representatives are more concerned about running rhetoric on the playoffs that were done in the media in 2013. I don't think people who listen to or see the debate out there, who are struggling with the bills and are worried about how they're going to make it through the winter, are very impressed with today's governance or today's big business. I hope for a slightly more honest and tiring debate that takes people seriously. The party of progress does that. That is why we are promoting a crisis package. It's about fuel prices that are cloud-high. People are totally dependent on it. It's about food prices, it's about electricity prices, and it's about workers, as you say here from the pulpit. There is also no good regards for the Workers' Party and the Centre's party, including SV, sends the industry with broken back, the aviation industry, when they reintroduce the passenger fee in today's budget. We're a lot of people who've had meetings with them, and this is the last thing they need. They're lying with their broken back. In that industry, I am also familiar with ordinary people who work. I wish that this great crowd could gather on the proposals of the Progress Party and give a crisis package, measures that work immediately, which can provide a safer everyday life for most people. You have to stop empty rhetoric and talk about what happened eight years ago. Today, the situation now, is quite extraordinary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2947	It means something who controls the country. It means something because we, as politicians and as a political party, have different means of achieving the objectives of our policy. The government formed by the Center Party together with the Workers' Party has an important goal of ensuring reconciliation between those who have the most and those who have the least, and between city and country. The small geographical and social differences are important for the further development of Norway and to ensure the high level of trust that is so incredibly important to our country. The objective of social and geographical cohesion is followed up in the various policy areas, and I want to raise some of the concerns of the Centre Party and the Workers' Party in transport and communication, which have been further elaborated and partly strengthened through the budgetary agreement with SV. The centre party is concerned that the whole country should have a positive development. The budget we adopt tonight will have important priorities that will make people throughout the country see. Ferry is getting cheaper, and we're going to start work on making the offer free of charge for the smallest connections. This is important. It's important because people don't take a vacation for fun. People take a ferry because they have to – because they're going to school, because they're going to work, or because they're going to transport important goods to and from towns and villages along our coast. With reduced ferry prices, we strengthen the basis for construction and value creation, and we facilitate working and everyday life for people. We're strengthening the work on racial protection. Race and pace close many important roads every year and prevent the transport of people and goods. Not least, it's a burden for people to live with the threat that a race can come. The government has announced an implementation plan for high- and medium-speed lines, and in the budget agreed here tonight, this important area will increase by 130 million. kr. Last, but not least: access to high-speed Internet has become essential for us in working and leisure time. It is crucial for the business community, for the development of our businesses, and for the gathering and communication of information for us as individuals. Thus, the government has warned that all fixed dwellings should have access to high-speed internet by 2025, and an increase in efforts in this important area already in the budget of the year. We are strengthening the role of commuters. We strengthen the promises of the county councils, so that they can maintain more of the collective supply around for a difficult time. It means something to who controls the country, and we see it in the budget we're going to adopt here tonight. On the centre side, we are very pleased with the clear re-priorities that show that we have a government that wants growth and development across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2970	The word municipal economy is about as exciting as the words middle parts, fire extinguishers and bicycle helmets. It's boring words that can make the difference between being and not being. Where the middle parts, fire extinguishers and bicycle helmets can save us individually, better local economy is a safety net for the many municipalities that struggle to provide their citizens with the services they require and deserve. For several years we have heard the mantra «never have the municipalities received more money». What has not been as proud and clearly exclaimed is that the state has re-enacted other transfers, such as: the grant schemes for resource-intensive services. For many municipalities, this has been $10 million a year. On 21 October, I received a text message from the head of economy in the municipality of Larvik. It said: I have promised at the leadership meeting in the municipality that if the new government reverses the constraints of the grant scheme for resource-intensive services, yes, then at the next meeting I will present My Way from the stage. On November 8, I replied that I was looking forward to the video performance. Unless the head of economy succeeds in seeking political asylum in Iceland, as he said, we in the Workers' Party get something to rejoice over now in the pre-Christmas period. Why am I telling you this? Indeed, for the budget through which the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are currently being implemented, there is a difference. It makes a difference between ordinary people who get lower taxes. It makes a difference between those who are unemployed and can still take vacations with their children. It makes a difference for those who are mentally struggling and now need help more easily. And that makes a big difference for our municipalities. I am proud of that, and it makes sense to be a politician – and so infinitely privileged that I get to stand on this platform. According to Great Norwegian Encyclopedias, politics is an activity aimed at governing or directing social development. So we know that the different parties have different goals and desires associated with that governance. This budget shows a different direction from that which has been leading in the last eight years. This budget brings the inequalities down, not up. It strengthens the public health system. It allows more children to play with their friends on the SFO. It gives younger people the opportunity to fix their teeth without raising their consumption loans. And it strengthens the Norwegian model by making it even more pay to organize yourself. To achieve this, they must carry the largest bar with the strongest back. Those who earn the most have to pay more. Some claim that it is made of envy and jealousy. That's wrong. It's simply because it's most fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e2987	Norway faces several major challenges: Firstly, we have the great global climate crisis. Secondly, we need to increase growth to ensure the welfare of the future. Thirdly, we have to provide good welfare to those who need it the most. The draft budget of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party is designed to respond to precisely these challenges. In reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the non-quota sector, the most effective measure is increased CO 2 taxes. The government of Solberg presented in the Climate Communication a proposal for an obliging escalation plan towards 2030, which unfortunately did not get a majority in Stortinget at the time. The Solberg Government's budget proposal for 2022 represents an increase in the CO 2 tax in line with the escalation plan. The Government of Støre quickly focused on this measure by reducing the user charge, so that there is no doubt as much emissions cut as the Solberg government provided can be achieved with the red-green majority budget. We need to create more, not more taxes, to secure the welfare of the future. We need the job creators who are willing to invest their secure economy to create something they have faith in and create new jobs. We need a good school, with professionally up-to-date teachers and with bets on, among other things. Natural science, which unfortunately the government is now removing. Good welfare for those who need it the most, is about solving the problems for those who have them, not for everyone else who doesn't have these problems. When the electricity price is high, those who have poor advice must receive financial support instead of reducing the electricity price for everyone, which best hits them with bubble baths and heat cables in the drive-up. Because we saw that those with low income had problems with the parental payment in kindergarten, the government of Solberg introduced a ceiling of 6 pst. of income, which is just hitting those with the lowest income. So when the majority now wants to reduce the maximum price for kindergarten, it hits us with high and middle incomes, not those with bad advice. Because we saw that some children don't get to take part in leisure activities because of the family's economy, the government established the Solberg children's leisure card. This is a targeted and good scheme which, unfortunately, the government will now remove, without other measures taking this vulnerable group. It's our job as politicians to provide real solutions to real people's problems. It forms the basis for the draft budget of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3022	Today, the Stortinget adopts a historically good budget for people throughout the country. The municipalities are the core and the foundation of our welfare state. It's been many years since we've seen a budget that promises the municipality of Norway and the local economy as we do now. It doesn't come about by itself, and it doesn't happen by chance either. It's about prioritizing, about fulfilling election promises – about keeping it a law. Eight years ago, in August 2013, Minister of Health Jonas Gahr gave a lecture at the House of Literature here in Oslo on the Workers' Party's future project. He then said that it is about giving everyone the greatest possible freedom, where the common denominator is justice and equal rights for ordinary people, in all parts of the country. And while the right-wing government spent eight years creating a society with greater differences and a lower municipal economy, Støre has spent time shaping a policy and a party that goes in the opposite direction. A red thread from Støre's speech in 2013 goes to today's government, led by Støre, who, instead of tax cuts to the rich, spends the money on creating a more fair society, where ordinary people will again experience that their lives and their challenges are at the top of the political agenda. That is what we in the Stortinget show today when we make proposals that will reduce the burden on people who are hit by high power prices. We're cleaning up a case that's inherited from the previous government. We show it by saying that people with high incomes are going to pay more in taxes, and that those who make less than 750,000 dollars are going to get less tax. The municipalities and the counties get a real growth of 4.5 billion. kr in free income. A strengthened local economy provides employees and elected representatives throughout the country with the necessary support to continue the enormous job being done in the municipalities. At the same time, when we provide holiday money for the day, restore the child supplement for the disabled, give more money for the spectacle support and dental care, cut the maximum price in the kindergarten, introduce free core time into the SFO, increase the commuter allowance and say that broadband should be a right in line with electricity, then we can proudly say that this budget gives ordinary people the opportunity to live a good life throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3033	The left is occupied by the freedom and opportunities of the individual. We are particularly concerned that children should be guaranteed equal opportunities regardless of their starting point and of the challenges they have had early in life. Little is so restrictive as being followed for the rest of your life by a choice you have made as a child or a youth, for example. in the form of criminal offences committed. When children perform criminal acts, it is usually a symptom of other evil things that they carry with them. What they need is follow-up, help with recovery and treatment — not punishment. As a strong rule, children are not to zone in prison, and then it is incredibly important for society to be able to set up with a well-adapted offer for each young person, so that it is possible to ensure that the child does not engage in any new criminal activity. Such an offer is found in the Youth Penalty and Youth Follow-up, followed by the Council of Conflict. The government and the SV cut in its budget into the line of criminal services responsible for juvenile punishment and follow-up, which both lead to longer procedural hours and go beyond temporary posts with already acquired competences and networks. In the Youth Penalty and Youth Follow-up En route report commissioned by the Ministry of Justice in 2016, researchers recommended a faster start to follow-up after the crime in order to improve the functioning of the scheme and prevent relapses into new crime. Already today, the procedure is too long, with typically 54 days before the follow-up to the conflict council starts. It is an incredibly long time for a youth, especially for a youth in a vulnerable situation. In addition, with the cuts from the government and the SV, it will not be possible to continue some of the temporary posts created in relation to youth follow-up and juvenile punishment. In order to carry out this follow-up and punishment, it is entirely dependent on young people being motivated, and it is important that follow-up takes place through individual adaptation. For some, it may mean therapy or a sympathetic course, and for others it may mean follow-up through, for example: a leisure activity. Then it is necessary that those who work with the scheme know people who can help each young person, and know what each young person needs. Both parts require that the competence be acquired over time, and then it is a terrible shame that this cut off from the government and the SV leads to the loss of employees who already care for this competence and this network. This budget cut from the government and the Swedish government will have a major impact both on young people and on the trade union environment in the conflict council, because it is more likely that the measures will work early and properly, and that young people will be able to live a crime-free life – a life of more freedom and more opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3048	The most obvious end you can draw from the agreement that gets the majority here today is that SV has got incredibly large and well implemented. Let me therefore take the opportunity to congratulate Kaski and Lysbakken with a very good result. It is a result that I deeply disagree with in politics and that takes Norway in the wrong direction, but it is also a result that must be difficult to swallow for the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The Workers' Party and the Centre spent a lot of time and energy in the election campaign explaining to the voters that there would only be moderate, almost insignificant tax changes, tax increases, the coming period only the Workers' Party and the Center Party gained power. Now we're sitting with the fasit -- not for the whole period, but for a year. The moderation is thrown on the boat. Next year, the sum of taxes and taxes is increasing by about 8.7 billion. kr. Likely, in Norway’s entire history, taxes and taxes have never increased more from one year to another. In comparison, the sum of taxes and taxes under the red-green government was increased by 5.2 billion. kr — not in one year but over eight years. So the centre party and the Labour Party are increasing taxes and taxes in six weeks more than they did in eight years' time. It's not moderate. On the contrary, it's very radical, and it's business that has to pay the bill. The taxes on wealth are increasing by nearly 70 pst. It drains the holdings of capital. The dividend tax, which you have to pay on dividends you have to use to pay the property tax, increases by over 10 pst. This weakens the ability of enterprises to invest in jobs, in machinery, in buildings and in technology and innovation. If you don't care whether companies in Norway are owned by foreigners or by the Nordics, it's no problem to increase a tax that only the Norwegians pay. If you don't care if it's the Western or Western Private Equity family that owns the furniture factory, if you don't care if it's Lerum and Sylte who owns the juice and shower factory, or if it's the big capitalist Coca-Cola, then it's almost a reasonable grip. But for us who believe it has value that we have locally owned companies, companies owned by the Nordics, this is completely reverse from the new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3057	Teeth are part of the body, and dental services should be part of the public dental service. Being poor should not mean having to go with great pain. It should not mean that you don't dare to smile. This should not mean that basic health care is not available. The welfare state is a spice layer where we all take care of each other and each other's basic need to live worthy lives. Dental health has long been a shameful hole in the welfare state. We in SV are proud that with this state budget we make sure that the start shot goes to fill this hole. This budget is, in fact, entirely historic. For the first time in history, an important effort is now being made to fill this gap in the welfare state, which has been awaited since before World War I. It is time to start this ambitious work on dental reform now, and we in SV believe that those most in need should be given priority in the development of the public dentistry. Dental health is today a market where the vast majority of the population depends on dental services where dentists have free pricing. In the transition to a publicly funded dental health, we want to build up and expand the public dental offer and ensure good control of private dentists and dentists chains. The dental health of the Nordics is steadily improving, and in the years to come a reduced need for specialised treatment will be seen. This will mean that the dental sector can rotate towards more frequent dental visits. The knowledge of the dental sector in Norway is low because patients are not yet in place, and because dentists, unlike other contract specialists, have free pricing. In order to ensure that the reimbursement by the State is not used for an unreasonable profit by individual dental practitioners, it is necessary to impose fixed prices for reimbursement services. Families with children and young people in need of dental regulation have high expenditures. A report from the Statistical Centre in 2019 showed that children from low-income families were less likely to receive dental regulation. The entire dental care of children should be free of charge and in the long term under public control. Therefore, in the context of the budget, SV proposes to step up the reimbursement of dental regulation where constant prices are given. Children shall not notice that their parents’ wallets affect their health more with SV and the government’s draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3071	Our country now has a budget that takes the country in a new, better and more solidarity direction, a direction in which we all have equal opportunities to be part of the community. The budget of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV sees the individual resident in the city, but also in the district – a budget that takes the whole country into operation. Our main objective is an economic policy that contributes to work for everyone. Work for all has always been the main objective of the Labour Party – and not least a working life that adds security to everyday life. A Norwegian model of serious work life – government and SV have seen and listened to different municipalities and counties that have already introduced serious rules in the workplace, such as: Rogaland. At the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV's guard, serious rules are being implemented that prevent unprofessional actors and social dumping, and this makes me happy. The government also strengthens the monitoring capacity of the Labour Inspectorate. After eight years of well-organised work, we are finally on the way to better times for them to be added. For those who are unfortunately out of work and need individual follow-up, increased staffing at the Nav offices will be particularly important. The ability of our common labour and welfare country to provide good services in the future means that the promises need to be strengthened. Here, too, the government and the Swedish government take action, which means that everyone can contribute to the working life, the same amount of work capacity. For the Workers' Party, it is very important that the welfare state be built up by all participants. We're taking one for the layer. Our country is best when everyone participates. No one shall be thrown out in security if one is on work clearance money. With this budget, we have shown that we have the security of those who need it. No one shall be thrown out until one is finished, either by the Nav or by the Health Service. It shows that the government has faith in man – and not blind to the system. The welfare state, the security network, the community, all of us – that's exactly what this budget is all about. Together we pray, together we create, together we are with. The ones that have the most, bitereg the most. Just like that, social democracy is at its best.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3086	I am proud to be part of a team that has reached an agreement on a social and fair state budget – a budget that prioritises ordinary people, prioritising the municipalities, and which is the greenest state budget we have ever had. Through the election campaign, I spent a lot of time traveling around Finnmark and talking to people. The message from everyone I met was clear – yes, as clear as it can only be in Finnmark: Now a government is needed that prioritises people throughout the country. It feels incredibly good to be able to stand here today and report back to all those who have voted for us: we follow up what we have promised. I can now say to the desperate inhabitants that many of the unsocial cuts the Solberg government carried out are now going to be reversed. In fact, I was warmed into the heart of seeing the joy of one of the unfortunates who made contact with me, and when I saw her reaction when I told her that we were going to reverse the Right shortening of uneducated income – or knowing the reactions we get that holiday money is in place. As former rapporteur and municipal politician for many years, free SFO has been high on the wish list locally. It is therefore only amazing that the State budget is already supporting such an important measure by adding free half-day space to the SFO for all first-class people. In addition, the community economy is strengthened so that our municipalities are even better able to provide good services to their citizens — more care for the elderly, a better school and quality in kindergartens. As an energy and environmental politician, I am very pleased that we have received a historic green budget. Norway is facing major challenges. We're going to get more jobs, create activity across the country, increase exports and cut greenhouse gas emissions. These four objectives are to be achieved jointly through an active and forward-looking industrial policy. The list of measures that will improve the lives of ordinary people is long. As a mother, as a growing-up representative from Finnmark and as a member of the Workers' Party, I am both proud and optimistic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3101	The right believes that we should have as rich a cultural life as possible in Norway, and in order to achieve this, all good forces must be mobilised. It also means that we must have a great private commitment to culture. It's a force for private engagement. In this debate, the Labour Party has talked a lot about the government's petty cut, but if it is something that is really petty, it is that the Workers' Party will scrap the successful gift-enhancing system. Private gifts are picked up by the state by 25 pst. of the sum. Since the introduction of the scheme, small and large cultural institutions — yes, a whole of 2,500 — have enjoyed this. More and more people use the scheme. On the many visits to either festivals, museums or concert events, the message is clear: do not touch this scheme. It gives a little extra to those who get money from either foundations or other private companies. It's not commercial companies, which I know is a fear of supporting and influencing culture; it's largely funds and foundations. I think it's a pity that small festivals like Johan Halvorsen Musikkfest in Drammen, the Glogerfest games in Kongsberg and the West Fossen Art Laboratory for Social Art, which may not be so big institutions, and which have enjoyed this, are now going to be extinguished. I wonder if the government can guarantee those who have received the funds from this scheme and have enjoyed it, when the State or the Workers' Party will take over the disposal. I don't think so. And I'm very excited about how the plentiful one percent will be distributed. For the Right, it is an important principle that public money should be used where private money does not always go to, just to trigger private contributions. It makes cultural life more robust, and they get more legs to stand on. Of course, public cultural funding should always be the bottom plan. The gift-enhancing scheme is a supplement, it shall not replace public funds. There are other major arrangements on the cultural budget to ensure geographical diversification, which we are concerned about, and that we have culture throughout the country. I wonder that it is so easy to sponsor sport, while money for culture arouses great suspicion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3120	For too long, victims of crime have been in unworthy queues, while criminals have been penalized. When the government now submits its proposal to the government budget, we see that the trend is turning around. For the first time in several years, there is a final balance in the justice budget. The criminal chain is seen as one. This is the way to go to avoid bottlenecks and unfortunate accumulations that eventually go beyond ordinary people. The government strengthens the prosecution authority, and thus we paved the way for resolving the ongoing crisis in the prosecution authority. In recent years, we have seen several examples of assault cases involving a known perpetrator on grounds of low capacity. This is not our legal state worthy. That is why I am pleased that the government is now addressing this serious problem and is helping to increase the capacity and quality of the prosecution authority. Now the government is also adding to a strengthened neighbourhood police force, which will be in line with the intentions of the Workers' Party for the reform of the police. We'll strengthen the police by 200 million. kr over the Solberg government budget, and with this we will strengthen the basic manpower, strengthen the dialogue with the municipalities and facilitate the presence, visibility and availability of the police. In the meantime, it is a pleasure for me finally to be able to note that for the first time in a long time the criminal justice system is not left with a cut after the state budget has been presented. We're strengthening criminal custody by 50 million. Now, in 2023, it's going to be 100 million. kr. This shall be aimed at strengthening the essential basic manning in the first line. This is the very success criterion when we're going back to Norwegian criminal justice. I hope people in the prisons and in the health services now finally see that there is light at the end of the tunnel. It will take time, but the repatriation has begun. There's a big difference between being right and getting right. We are now in the process of addressing this injustice, and the legal aid rate is being increased in this budget, free legal aid is being strengthened, and children's special protection is being strengthened. The work is now under way. I really look forward to working on a new and fair course for the country, where people all over Norway will again experience that it is their lives, interests and challenges in everyday life that are at the top of the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3133	Selectors required a change in year selection. People have had enough after eight years of increasing differences in power and wealth, with unsocial cuts for them with little and big tax gifts for them with the most from before. Young people went out of classrooms and took to the streets to demand action against the climate crisis. Now SV has used its key role in Stortinget to change – and clearly shifted direction with this budget unit: from increasing differences to fair distribution, and from a far too slow pace in climate change to more climate action. So to two examples that this budget is a turning point: first, after many years of defense struggle for the welfare state against unsocial cuts, we turn around and extend well-being. In this budget agreement, SV has had an impact on the largest welfare expansion since full childcare coverage, i.e. free SFO for all children – first of all for the first stage. No children should go home alone because of their parents' finances while the other kids continue to play and learn. All children are to participate, and many families save a large amount of money each month. We remove this class distinction in school – first for the first class. While there is a balancing of differences in practice, it is also filling the slogan ‘Prior effort’ with content, for the play, inclusion and community created in the SFO, contributes to the development of the whole child. When the SFO gets free, we can really start to increase the quality of the content as well because all the kids have the opportunity to be there. Then we can improve skills and manning, and we can gain more good activities in collaboration with the cultural school, local cultural life or volunteering. This budgetary unity is also a turning point in the settlement of profit, revenue and market correction in our welfare. After years of free-falling for large commercial groups to derive profit from tax-funded well-being, we start our clean-up job. SV's demands are quite clear and very reasonable; each crown community and the parents give to kindergarten should go to the children's offers – not a crown for private enrichment for commercial owners. Now, zero profit models are to be investigated, among others. for kindergartens, we're going to put in place a distinction between commercial and ideals in the law, and we're going to have a number of other changes in the rules to prevent large commercial entanglements with ever larger groups and less diversity. But this is just one budget. We're not just going to have free SFO for the first step, we're also going to have free SFO for all children from the first to the fourth step. And the SV is going to throw at the next fights further.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3146	Michelangelo once said, when he was asked how he was able to make such beautiful sculptures, that it's just to chop away what's not the sculpture – kiss and let it go a little, it's there. I would also say that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have done the last few weeks. They came from an almost greystone, an inherited budget that was for the few and not for the many. The process was cut off what is not a policy for ordinary people, put on what gives fair and climate-friendly policies, and fine-tuned policies that reduce differences. We now have the greenest and fairest budget Norway has seen in eight years. We balance the geographical differences and differences between people, and we make it possible to live, live, work and nourish throughout the country. Nordland, which I represent, is a miniature Norway. It is long-distance, has a long coastline, is an island community, has inland and access to important resources such as minerals, fish and nature — and has a wide range of economic actors that are both forward-looking and innovative. But we are also the county that has really marked eight years of right-wing policy, centralisation, tight local economy, reduced funds for development, uncertainty about necessary port expansions because they have moved it to the county council, a quota notification that does not respond to what industry needs, general cut for them with at least, and we have got a tax haven in Bø for those who have the most from before. With the policies of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, I believe that Norway, North Norway and the Nordic countries have the best opportunities to exploit their potential. With an active state, we will help cut greenhouse gas emissions while creating new jobs and taking a leading position in green writing. We do it best if people feel good at work, in their lives and where they live. But what's important now, more than ever, is what creates the glue between us humans. If I'm going to bring out something that really creates magic, in addition to most people's politics, it's all the positive things that happen at the sports arena, in the corps, in the theater club, at gaming matches – that is, the offers after school, where our children and young people find fellowship and belonging, for mastery feeling and for connecting new acquaintances. In these environments, a huge capital of voluntary effort is laid down, and then it is a pleasure that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have focused on the magic of our society and granted full VAT compensation, as well as glasses support and everything else that is good. This budget makes life better for individuals, for businesses, for society and for the country. Because when things go well in Nordland and people can live a good life, then it is also good for AS Norway. And I agree with Marianne Sivertsen Næss: I am proud of the budget that we have magicd up in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3157	As new in Stortinget, I must say that I respect the job that the former government has done with regard to the treatment of the pandemic. Equally, I respect what the government is doing today with regard to the pandemic and challenges around it. But I must honestly admit that I actually don't understand what's happening, when I'm listening to the debate today about the big crisis we're having with the power situation in the country. Grown-up people who take the aim of becoming state councils and governing the country, and others, are most concerned about looking back in time and discussing who is going to be in debt, and who has done yours and fell too many years ago, instead of focusing on that people's home and freeze in a country that depends on the flow. Stream is one of the most important resources we have, and one of the most important things we have in a cold country. I looked at yer.no. It's minus 10, minus 15, minus 20, minus 25 degrees around Norway. We're going to Christmas, and we're talking about older people locked up in a few rooms, because they can't afford to light up the whole house streaming. We're talking about farmers who have five, six, seven times right-hand power. We're talking about a lot of people who have a lot of problems paying bills. When our own finance minister then is most busy boasting that one cuts whole 49 pst. of 350 kroner in an electricity charge, which is to give a couple of hundred kroner to those who get a bill of perhaps 8 000 kroner, 10000 kroner, 15 000 kroner, and who have had an invoice of a few thousand dollars before – yes, then I have to honestly admit that as a new member of the Storting I am disappointed. In fact, I think this room should be able to address challenges – as the former government did with regard to the pandemic, and as today's government stands up with the pandemic – also in a power crisis and make sure that the country has enough power, stop exports out of the country and do something with the power prices right now in this room, today. Today's plurals, in a glittering way from their side, have been able to block by bringing a suggestion that is so unintelligible that when I look at it, it's kind of like looking at the measurement dry. I can't get a comma out of it. I have to say that I am disappointed on behalf of the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3166	Choice is a beautiful thing, especially when it goes well and it ends with an Labour Party-led government. 49 days ago, Norway received a new government. In 30 days the calendar will show you a new year. From the first day of the new year, people in Norway will notice a difference. With the budget that the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV agree on today, we can state that the course will be changed in line with the wishes of the voters. After eight years of right-dominated governments, where budget winners have been the most prominent, now is the turn of ordinary people. Today, the budget is a historic green and fair one. Differences are reduced, well-being strengthened, greenhouse gas emissions cut, the unsocial cuts from the right-hand government are cancelled, and the family economy is strengthened. In the preceding six years, I have been in charge of the Financial Committee in the Municipality of Oslo and have been involved in the adoption of the budgets in my city. That's why I know what the community economy is all about – there's space and quality in the care of the elderly, it's teachers for our kids, it's staffing and quality in the kindergartens, it's child protection, mental health and cultural and leisure services. Municipal economy is about our common well-being. When the bulk of population today gives municipalities a real growth in free income of 4.5 billion. kr, it may be converted into more well-being in Norwegian municipalities. That's where people live and live their lives. That is why we need to translate the strengthened local economy into what it is actually about, and the commitment to local economy and well-being adopted today by the Stortinge means, among other things. that the budget in Oslo School is increasing. There will be more knowledge for everyone, but there will be particular strengthening of schools in the areas affected by living conditions, among others. at the Stoves, Furuset and Holmlia. Schools with most students who need extra follow-up get the most resources. It is fair and necessary to contribute to social cohesion in Oslo. At the same time, there is a strengthening of schools and special schools throughout the city, which will benefit all students. The mental health provision for children and young people is strengthened in Oslo. Psychiatric challenges for children and young people are one of the major challenges of our time. The need has increased below the corona. With money from Stortinget, more children and young people in Oslo can get help. Home services in Oslo are being strengthened, and there are going to be more reinforced places in the hospitals. Resources are provided to provide better food for the elderly in nursing homes. These were just a few examples from my hometown. Similar examples are now being seen throughout the country. Strengthened urban economy means more well-being for people in rural and urban areas. So it plays a role who controls. Now the course is going to be changed, as the voters have asked, and they're going to get what they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3181	Finally, all children should enjoy the whole of their child’s fear. Many local people in municipalities throughout the country have fought a long battle in their municipality to stop the shortening of child welfare by paying social assistance. For SV, this has been one of the most important issues to balance differences and help more poor families this autumn. Now, finally, we have an agreement with the government that we're going to change the Social Services Act, so it's no longer allowed to shorten, and that we're going to compensate the municipalities, so they can afford to change their practices. It is not about much more money for families receiving social assistance, but it may be the small extra that facilitates everyday life for those around 34 000 children in the families that this applies to. Hurray! Child protection shall be a universal benefit for all children. The previous government has proposed increased child benefit for children from 0 to 6 years of age, and that is good, but children’s needs do not diminish when they get older. A study carried out by the Church's Bymition among young people who have grown up in poor families shows that youth, and especially high school, is the most difficult time to have poor advice. That's when they start comparing themselves with others and feeling on the stigma around having worn clothes, little or no food for lunch and not being able to participate in leisure activities. SV therefore believes that we need to increase child welfare for all children, and has a strong commitment in our alternative budget to increase child welfare for them between the ages of 6 and 18. On 1 January 2022, the Child Protection Reform will enter into force. At the same time, we have a new government, which says that they will work on phasing out commercial operators and launching tenders for our vulnerable children. The government proposed to strengthen the state child protection by 100 million. NOK, and we've managed to increase this by another 50 million. kr. Strengthening the protection of state children is essential in order to phase out the commercial and to eliminate the benefits of child protection. However, I have a great deal of concern when the child protection reform comes into effect and there are no earmarked funds for more jobs and more prevention in municipalities. SV has proposed an increase of 250 new posts in municipal child protection, with an increase of 1000 during the four-year period. An important prerequisite for introducing a reform, the more both prevention and intervention are pushed into municipalities, increased resources and clear leadership. SV therefore believes that funds for municipal child protection must be earmarked, so that the money is used for what they are going to spend, and not for all the other good and necessary purposes for which a municipality needs money.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3192	Raise the commuters, we said in the campaign. Every day hundreds of thousands of Norwegians have to commute to get to work. They use their own and often their family's precious time to travel to work. The commuting can be both exhausting and costly for the individual. For society, however, commuting is positive because it provides flexibility in working life, it ensures increased employment, and it improves access to labour, and it allows for widespread housing, thus supporting society’s goals of life throughout the country. Over eight years, the Right Party and the Advance Party have consistently made it more expensive to commute. I am therefore pleased that we have now received a government that values those who have to go far to work. Now the mileage is increased; more will be deducted from the tax; the deductions are increased so that those who already have travel allowances are reduced more by their travel expenses. The commuters will simply be left with more in the wallet. The government’s arrangement also lowers the requirement for daily travel distance from 66 km to 37 km. That means that more people will get deducted. This could be done, for example, by: apply to persons residing in Asker, Lommedalen, Lillestrøm or Oppegård who work in Oslo. It may not be that far, but time use is often as high as the other one with longer distance has. This stands out to all those who take their own time to get to work for the community. I'm glad that the promise for commuters now becomes a reality. So on top of something else: the previous government entered into a binding climate agreement with agriculture where the industry committed itself to a 5 billion cut in emissions. tonnes by 2030. It is the only binding agreement the State has in the climate with a single industry. The centre party is for agreements and partnerships with industry. The challenge was that from the government of Solberg there was a unilateral agreement that the government did not set up. The government did not propose a single measure to help the agricultural industry achieve its climate objectives. And it's pretty amazing all the time this is the only deal the state has with an industry. I am therefore pleased that the Central Party's promise to create a Bionova to cut emissions and bind carbon now becomes a reality. The Hurdal Platform notes that the government will set up such a body, and it is therefore very gratifying that the budgetary unity led to our being able to say that Bionova is established in one year's time and will contribute to achieving emissions reductions and carbon bonds in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3207	I just want to thank the government and SV for the great improvement work that has been done on the state budget over the past few weeks. For a period before the additional proposition came, it might seem that it would take up to a hundred years to carry out the work on their 100-day plan, but, fortunately, after a considerable pressure from below and beyond, some progress has been made in the matter. But despite a number of good and important balancing measures in the state budget that are now being adopted, we are facing a social crisis in Norway if we do not take extensive action to solve the problems of record power prices. All the good that is adopted in the state budget today will be eaten up by the first electricity bill in most households if you do not take exceptional steps to compensate ordinary people in Norway for the increased electricity prices. We're on our way into a situation where the minimum pensioners are unsure whether they can afford to shower, and how poor and low pay did not dare to fire up in their houses. I want to remind this room that in Norway there is no electricity that you can choose not to use. It's a necessity of life over a long winter, and that's exactly why these shock prices are so serious. Paradoxically, the state sits and becomes richer and richer at the record high power price, and it is therefore worrying that the majority chooses to balance large parts of their social activities with dividends from State Power rather than increasing taxes to the rich. Instead, the bill is sent to the power customers, while the money that comes in through Statkraft and VAT should be used directly to help the power customers. Most of us had probably hoped that the pandemic would eventually go to the end. I record that there has been some controversy between the sitting and the previous prime minister if someone has actually said that the pandemic was over or not, but it is at least quite obvious that the pandemic is not over now. It was also the main message in the Prime Minister's Coronation earlier this week. This is precisely why it is so serious that the pandemic measures that have been for the unemployed will expire on 1 January. This means that all the country's unemployed will immediately have a cut in the daily allowance, and that thousands of thousands will begin to fall out of the daily allowance scheme. There's got to be a grip. If the pandemic is not over, the crisis for the unemployed cannot be over either. It cannot be that we simply introduce support measures for business and allow workers to sail their own seas. That is why we need to put in place an extension of the extraordinary corona measures for the unemployed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3219	Today, the Stortinget adopts a budget that takes Norway in a new and fairer direction. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister of Finance for the good presentation he made in connection with the supplementary proposition on the important re-priorities that the government is now going to make in its period of government. As a populace from a district group with fewer people with higher education and a widespread settlement, I am very happy that it now appears to be more important to take on the importance of getting more people to work and to use the education sector and municipalities much more to balance inequalities in the provision of services. The fact that we're now making sure that there's free core time in the SFO for first-rate, starting a new dental reform, making less differences, removing the petty social cuts and delivering a historic green budget is actually taking the country in a whole new direction. That being said, it is nevertheless very important for the Workers' Party that we do not go along with a stable fiscal policy, where jobs and innovative growth in the private sector are threatened by the temptation to spend too much money at once. Where I come from, it's like peeing a certain place to keep the heat. It could bring short-term joy and increase the cost side of the government budget rapidly — through increased appropriations for purposes, with the best intentions. If we don't use our heads, but only our hearts, in the longer term we will threaten private businesses, especially in District Norway. It is already demanding for some small and medium-sized enterprises to compete for wages and housing conditions with larger enterprises in the East. And a large increase in public budgets could lead to even greater competition for these businesses. There will certainly be parties, both far to the left of the Workers' Party and to the right, who will make large spending increases and blackmail this government's budget in order not to build enough well-being. That's wrong. Norwegian well-being and the ability of the Norwegian welfare state to provide good and fair services across the country are very much based on a wise fiscal policy, which this government is leading. I would like to warn against an overbidden policy that could risk both jobs and people's homes, at the risk of increased interest rates. We now see around the world that inflation is increasing dangerously, and it is utopian to believe that this will not affect Norway. We must ensure stable jobs throughout the country and a stable interest rate, so that houses and homes are not compromised.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3232	For eight dark blue years, SV has fought against unsocial cuts. Now the reverse operation is in progress. Now we've started to reverse unsocial cuts, we've started building well-being and safe people. There is something very strong about getting back something that has been taken from you, and it bears witness to the many stories and thank-you messages – from parents who have kids who need glasses, from performers who are guaranteed children's supplements, or from the unemployed and who are now going to have holidays with the family. For what is it really that gives us good and free life? What makes it possible for us to get up also the times we hit the ground hard? Well, it's just a strong community, because together we can stand up and stand up to each other in a way that we can never separate, at least not with ordinary income. That's why I'm very pleased with the welfare support that starts with the budget today -- with child-responsiveness also for people who have to apply for social assistance, SFO, so that all kids can join the game, and dental care, so that the smile no longer has to have a class break. Life can be pretty unpredictable things. Most people know this when we've been behind us, where people have been insecure at work, where many people have struggled to keep the home, and where fear of health has increased. That's why it's just so important that we have universal welfare arrangements that reach all, and that ensure that not only those who can pay if life is variable, can stand upright when it's boiling. Although life is unpredictable, there are some things that are quite easy to predict, and the current crisis we are in now has been warned against. We have warned what would happen by opening up total market power to power, and by partly subduing the European market and building export cables to import high electricity prices. That's why it's a little weird that people are pointing at each other today and have championships in disclaimer. I remind you of the proposal SV promoted a couple of months ago, which would secure everyone with low income help with the power bill. We are now working on both regulating the market and making sure that those who need help with the power bill will have an outstretched hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3245	The budget of the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV no are some of them, shows that now is the usual people's turn. This budget ensures that people have something to live from, and not least to live for. It's a budget for ordinary people who spend Sundays on hard work, who are moms or dads and cheers on the line in a football game, and who are proud corps parents. Some of the finest things about our country are voluntary. Through coronatidism, sport and volunteering have been available to children and young people. The differences in society are increasing, and the pandemic has accentuated these differences. Sport and volunteering have played an important role in remedying it by providing them with activity and inclusion. Volunteers are quick to show that they are appreciated. Full VAT compensation has been the most important requirement for voluntary activities and sport. It means more money to route with for activity throughout the country. Unfortunately, the right-wing government has not prioritised this in the last few years, because under the budget from the right-wing government in 2020 they received about 80 pst. VAT code. This means that in 2020, volunteering missed about 395 million. kr that should have gone to more activity throughout the country. However, at the choice, the voters gave a clear message that they wanted a shift, and with the Labour Party in government, the election was taken to reality. Our 100-day plan is being followed up, point by point, for our government delivers. We are now securing full VAT compensation for voluntary organisations. Thus, sport and voluntary activities have fulfilled their most important requirement. So we're going to make sure that they can spend more time giving activity and including, rather than running money collection and administration. I am proud that today we are going to adopt just full VAT compensation for next year. But not enough: we already pay full VAT compensation for the current year. For culture, sport and volunteering in our country, it means something who rules. As a wise man, Tage Erlander, said as well – and that is also true today: the task of politicians is to build a dance floor, so that individuals can dance their lives. The dance floor is now becoming even wider, including for culture, volunteering and sports throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3260	The budget to be adopted today is good news for Norway, it is good news for Trøndelag, and it is good news for all the voters who voted for a shift in Norwegian policy in the autumn. After eight years of centralization and greater differences between people, there's a lot we're going to deal with, and we in the Center Party have a lot of promises we're going to make. This budget is taking us a long way. A good picture of this is the situation of agriculture, which after eight years of putting its head in the wall trying to get the right government to understand, finally feels to be heard. In the additional negotiations they asked for 754 million. kr. The right-hand government had put zero dollars, but now they get what they asked for, and what they need. It is a clear change of pace and shows that this government actually believes it when we say that we should bet on Norwegian food production. Another picture of this is the municipal economy, which we now strengthen by 2.5 billion. kr more than the Solberg government would have done. For my home municipality, Melhus, it means 7.5 million. SEK – 7.5 million. Dr who can go to better care for the elderly, more teachers at school, better leisure activities for children and young people or something else the municipality itself sees as needing. It helps to ensure that we have good services close to people. At the same time, we stop several of the unsocial cuts that have been introduced in recent years. The glasses support of the kids who need it is back. Holiday money on day money becomes a reality. At the same time, the majority of ordinary people receive lower taxes and taxes. That's how we're going to raise those who need it the most. It has been very important for us in the Center Party that we should strengthen the commuting discount, lower the prices of ferries and double the bet on broadband. We've been very concerned that we're also going to strengthen the outlaws, because those who have to move to higher education should not lose money on it, and we're going to put off $200 million. kr to refurbish the police throughout the country. We think you should have equal opportunities, regardless of whether you grow up on Røros, in Leka or on Grünerløkka. These investments show that Norway has received a new government, a new government with a new course. It shows the Hurdal platform, it emphasizes this budget, and I'm so glad that people across Norway and throughout the Trondelag will notice the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3281	Fortunately, most of us get the basic welfare services we need, in the municipality we live in. It is the municipalities that are responsible for school, kindergarten and care for the elderly, and it is therefore incredibly important to have a good municipal economy. That's exactly why the right of the last eight years in the government has chosen to prioritise the municipal sector, which we'll do next year. Then I have to admit that it is very special to hear some of the representatives of the Labour Party in this debate. For example, the representative Rune Støstad was up in the pulpit and said that the right-wing government had used the last few years to weaken the municipal economy. It is with respect to report completely wrong. On the contrary, it has been chosen to strengthen the local economy, and it has also been important to provide people with good welfare services where they live. We have also made sure to give more to those who need it the most, even though in the debate here we have heard many claim the opposite. Let me take a few examples: we have introduced free core time in kindergarten and SFO, so that several of those who need it the most get access to the offer. We have provided more low-threshold mental health services so that everyone can get help when they need it. We have increased child-responsiveness, strengthened care, prioritised free leisure cards, led a policy to get more people into work and put on early work and better teachers, which has led to more people completing high school. We have also strengthened the social work of housing. The housing aid scheme has been improved. The start-up loan scheme in Husbanken has also improved and has led to families with children, especially those with poor advice, being able to fully finance their own housing through the Start-up Loan Scheme of the Husbanken. In fact, it has never been paid out as much initial loans as it has been with the Right Government. It is important precisely because owning your own home has a high self-esteem for the individual. In this debate, there are also many people who talk about inequality, but I think the left side spends too much time talking about those who have the most, rather than talking about how to raise some of those who have the least. Today, the SSB has published an article describing who lives permanently in low income, and why. One of the reasons for this is that there is too little connection with working life, and unfortunately, we see that immigrants are overrepresented in statistics – simply because they do not have a lasting relationship with the labour market, often because they do not have the skills that business demands. It may be that action places are fine, but the basic challenges that make people not at work have to be addressed. It's knowledge and competence. There are also areas where this government and SV choose to deprioritise the efforts that the Right in Government would have strengthened, and also propose to strengthen today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3296	This evening, the majority on the Stortinget adopts a new budget, and I am pleased that the Central Party, the Workers' Party and SV have reached a good budget agreement. The budget points in the direction we promised the voters that it would. It's a budget agreement that will lead to smaller differences between people. The budget will lead to a fairer climate policy. And for the first time in eight years, a budget will be adopted that slows down centralisation, rather than a budget that promotes measures that increase centralisation. I'm very happy about that. When we increase support for broadband expansion, it's because we know that there are a lot of places in the country that are getting little broadband because they've largely let market forces rule. The state’s contribution is now increasing. When we set aside funds to start work on rural growth agreements, it is because the districts are to be built up and invested more. In Aust-Agder there are clearly opportunities for some of the seat valley municipalities to look at this scheme. In the election campaign, I was constantly hearing about the reduction in the number of annual works at several of the remaining police stations in Agder. As we increase the appropriations for the police, it is for us to have a more accessible and present police force across the country. A budget with an increase of nearly 1 billion. kr to food producers in this country is a start on a new direction for agriculture in Norway. Increases in the free revenues of municipalities are good news. Thousands of new VTA sites and increased frameworks for resource-intensive users are undoubtedly helping municipalities. The current price we now experience in Norway cannot be overtime without action being taken. That is why I am very pleased that the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the Swedish Government are asking for possible measures to reduce the financial burden in the short term. We agree on that. But part of this debate and the disclaimer that the previous government and the Progress Party are doing in this Chamber today, it is mildly strange to be a witness. The power prices we are experiencing now are clearly composed of different factors, but one thing that is absolutely certain is that the energy policy that the previous government has implemented is one of several reasons why we are there today. Because that's how politics works. We've had weeks to make changes to this budget. I'm so glad that there are even more things in the Hurdal platform that we're going to be working on in the future, because with the changes we're making in this budget, we're pointing in the direction that we promised the voters that we would. This is a budget that sees the whole country, and that reduces differences between people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3315	In the years and time before the year's selection, many people were lost and angry with each other. We got to the right about important offers and services that were moved from people, about greater social differences, about degradation within mental health, about people who were afraid to send their kids to school, about child rebellion, peasant rebellion and district uprisings. We went into the elections this year with the most centralizing government. We got to the right about insecurity and a society where proximity was replaced by absences. Ensuring security and foresight is one of the most important tasks of the welfare state, and the welfare state is our sprawl layer. In the election of the year, we felt that our voice meant something. The most centralizing government had to go off and be replaced by a government that takes Norway in a new and fairer direction, where it would be possible to live a good life, no matter where a cage. We have to provide good services near where people live, more jobs and good infrastructure throughout the country. There was a lot to do after the year's selection, and we're going to keep on taking all the slices as long as we can. In this year's budget, we have more funds for municipalities and hospitals. This year’s budget included: that my home municipality, Windfjord, is likely to vote for the first time in the municipality's short history for the budget of a cohabitant next year. This means that my municipality can offer good services to the residents. We are to equip mental health protection, and the government has shown that we are raising the supply of food, by ensuring Kristiansund a package of measures, so that they can re-open the food service. We've redistributed funds so that more people get less tax, and those who have the most have to pay more. We've reduced the prices of kindergarten, we're giving free core time in the SFO for first-class classes, we've introduced glasses for children again, and not least we already have one black on the peasant rebellion from day one. The list is long, but not exhaustive, and we have barely started. Then I haven't mentioned what has been most important to us in Rogaland, the easy start of the tunnel on Route 13 that can take a break, so that the local people in Suldal can feel a little safer when they send their kids off to school in the morning. The centre party went to the options to take a given with the centralization and the geographical and social differences. So let's do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3330	This is a historic day. After eight years of privatisation, centralisation and increased differences, Norway is currently receiving a new course. This is the greenest and most redistributive budget Norway has had in very many years. Now is the common people's turn, the emissions are going down, and the differences between people are going to be reduced. Ordinary people get less tax, while the country's millionaires have to pay more. It is in stark contrast to what has been the policy in recent years, where the richest have left off more and more, and it has been cut off to those who need the most community. It has been such an unfair policy that we hardly think it is possible where the unemployed and the disabled are those who have had to finance the tax cuts for the country's millionaires. And that's what Norway said no until 13 September; the country voted down the right parties and wanted a new course for Norway. Today, the government and the red-green majority provide a new course: more well-being, less differences and more community. Justice and solidarity are now at the top of the block when policies are to be shaped, both in Norway and internationally. We have a government where solidarity does not stop at our borders. Martin Tranmæl said in a speech that we should stand with legs well planted on Norwegian soil with the look facing the world. The same thing we can say about today's government. Norway can't save the world, but we can do more, and we can work smarter. And money is not the most important thing, it is the policy that is. Then we need to think strategically about how we can spend money on changing policies, such as Norway. has passed through the rainforest billions. In development policy, we say that we should give more priority. We give priority to climate, equality, health, hunger and inequality. We are increasing support for the fight against hunger and marine pollution. Where the previous government cut renewable energy and gender equality, today's government is doing the opposite. And we put the fight against inequality on the international agenda – because the differences within a country are as great today as they are between countries. We've got a government that wants more, and that dares more. We can see that, among other things. where Norway now supports the exemption from patent rights for the corona vaccine. We support the demands of the poorest countries for vaccines; it is both about solidarity with those who need it the most, and about our self-interest, because the Coronapandemic has really taught us that nobody is safe until everyone is safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3341	I am pleased that the Workers' Party-Center Party government has reached an agreement with SV on the most green, fair and redistributive budget of more than eight years. A good budget proposal from the government has become even better, quite simply. The budget means that the perm and the unemployed are paid holiday money. The performers who are able to work a little, will be allowed to do so without losing their insurance, and children will get the spectacle back. What's so good about the Norwegian welfare state is that it's built up so that we all promise. With the new draft budget, anyone who earns NOK 750,000 and less will get equal or less tax, while with the strongest back they will lift a little more. A raise also gets the municipal economy, with a total of 4.5 billion. kr more. It means more money for schools, kindergartens and hospitals throughout the country. Good communities are created from below and up. To give an example, my municipality of Trysil dealt with earlier this week in the municipal budget. Now, using the new draft budget, they're going to get $3 million. kr more in increased revenue compared to the budget of the Solberg Government. It makes them actually able to maintain Western Trysil primary school. Instead of laying down an entire community, they can now bet and create the world's best school in the South Os, which is called the branch. Although the changes in the state budget by the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and the SV are very good, we also have to take seriously that many people feel an uncertainty when we meet in the winter. High record petrol prices and electricity prices in combination with increased bank interest rates make it difficult for some — yes, perhaps even impossible — to do so. I don't think it's going to cost you $50 to take a shower. That is why the majority of the Stortinget are in charge and ask the government to quickly find measures that can remedy the situation in the future, in line with the input I received last night from the chairmanship of the Åmvet Municipality – like many other input we have all received recently. It's about listening to people. Although we today adopt the largest cut in the electricity charge since the 1990s, we need to do more. That's not enough, and I know the government's going to do more. Finally, everything I have been talking about now, the government, along with SV, has been able to do in just 49 days. Think as much as we can in four years – at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3358	Today, the Stortinget adopts a budget that takes Norway in a new and fairer direction, which means something to people's everyday lives. We're reducing the differences, we're strengthening the well-being, we're cutting greenhouse gas emissions, and we're removing the unsocial cuts of the right-hand government. The tax changes we make give more redistribution and help reduce the differences. We keep our promise from the election campaign that those who make 750,000 kroner or less will get lower income taxes. In addition, we're doing other important steps that matter to people's economy. We cut the maximum price in kindergarten at NOK 3000 a year, and we introduce free core time into the SFO for first class. Free hours in the SFO know we're giving results. Arbeiderpartit-steer Stavanger has already introduced free SFO for all first-raters, and there has been a significant increase in the proportion of young people participating in the SFO. In fact, in single schools, all students now attend the SFO. Then it comes to the conclusion that children in families who cannot afford the SFO have to go home alone or stand outside the schoolyard and look at the others. We are strengthening well-being. Municipalities and county councils are growing by 4.5 billion. kr in free income. It means something about the service provision around municipalities throughout the country. In my own municipality, Güsdal, it gives room to e.g. to strengthen early work in kindergarten, an extended million to new teaching materials and equipment in schools, a new 100 % increase in health care, care for the elderly, and an additional million to increase maintenance to take up the maintenance service a look at both construction and roads. A little over a week ago, a bus came full of people from Suldal and Ryfylke to mark their fight for a safe school and work path past the Redsliane on Rv. 13th@item: inlistbox One of those who took the tour was Arin Eirikssønn, head of the Suldal Youth Council. He held a shimmering appeal out here, in Eidsvoll's place, where he described how the insecurity of schoolchildren and those who daily pass by the distance, goes on the whole loose. The right hand side and the front side have been aware that this route is regularly raging. They have had eight budgets where they could give priority to racial protection and give people in Suldal a safer route, but not one year have they found room for this project. What the Progress Party and the Right were unable to do in eight years, the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV were able to do something in less than two months. Now we have a government and a great majority that listens to people and prioritizes the most important things first.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3372	We are now in a period of the year where there are municipal government meetings and county meetings all over the country. There are challenging and demanding meetings where next year's budget is to be adopted, all with the aim of managing the funds of municipalities and counties for the benefit of the inhabitants and providing the best possible services to those who live and live there. Many local politicians are aware of the challenge of prioritizing within the tighter frameworks and taking care of those who need it the most – the discussion of whether to quit school, remove the youth club or cut homes. In a few weeks, the conditions for these meetings have changed, because in this budget we are taking Norway in a new and fairer direction. We will provide good services near people, services for which the municipalities are very often responsible. It is then very important that the budget we are to adopt today proposes to increase the free income of the municipal sector by 4.5 billion. kr. This will mean more well-being across the country, more care for the elderly, a better school and quality in kindergartens. The EUR 300 million proposed cut of the Solberg government. kr in grants for resource-intensive services will strengthen the economy of municipalities and enable them to provide better services to citizens who are entitled to comprehensive health and care services. Over the last few years, I've met a lot of people with increased feelings of abstinence in District Norway. In many district municipalities, unfortunately, the population goes down, and the average age of those who remain increases. The ability to see both the problems and want to do something with them is now, after the autumn's election, present in this assembly, and we see it in the agreement between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. In addition to strengthening the local economy, agriculture is strengthened. Funds are allocated to decentralised and district-oriented education, and we are developing rural growth agreements, as a new district policy tool for strengthening business and housing in vulnerable areas in the districts of Norway. In addition, adding more accessible and locally available police, more to broadband deployment and reduced ferry tariffs gives a clear signal of a change in course, a change in course that will increase optimism across the country, including in District Norway. In the budget, we take Norway in a new and fairer direction. We will provide good services to people, work for everyone and good infrastructure in the country. And in the case of good infrastructure in the country, the historic decision of ours has been reinforced by the agreement, because now it is clearly stated that we are to ensure a full KVU for the North Norway Railway, which is to be part of the basis for the next NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3387	The election results of the harvest gave us a historic majority on the Grand Duchy – a majority that will use its position to change Norway and to give a new direction to people and to society. After eight years of civil government, with the Progress Party in the Finance Minister's post, we know that there are big things that need to be corrected. No correction can be made in a few weeks, but many of the cuts made over these years, and the increases in income achieved by the richest are now to be changed. After just a few weeks, the Støre government, together with SV, has presented a historic budget, which will give a new direction. I almost don't know where to start with what's already happened: Tax changes contribute to more redistribution and justice. All with less than NOK 750000 in income will receive tax relief. Eight out of ten people who receive salary cuts today will receive unchanged or less tax. It's a big change. Municipalities and counties get a real growth of 4.5 billion. kr. It's in the municipalities people live and live their lives. There are welfare measures in kindergartens, schools, care for the elderly and volunteering. It's through a strengthened community economy that we can mobilise all the volunteer we need. We cut the maximum price in kindergartens by NOK 2 915. We're introducing free core time into the SFO. It means a lot to everyone who has children in kindergarten, and who has children in the SFO. We're increasing the commuting discount, and we're securing holiday money. We are involved in increasing the tax deduction of the trade unions, those who want an organized working life. This means redistribution to those who have great costs of getting to work, and those who want to be organized. We are increasing the appropriations for labour market measures. We create a thousand more action sites – 250 VTA sites for those who need it most in society. This we can do in just a few weeks, when the bourgeois government cut years after year. We're clearing up the unsocial cut of the right government. We now guarantee holiday pay for those who have been unemployed and on leave. We extend the right to work clearance money, reintroduce the child allowance for disability and shorten the income from the first crown. And in addition, we're going to arrange it so that you get a pension from the first heads. This is a new direction for society, for most people, for ordinary people who are struggling – and that after just a few days, a few weeks. We can imagine what it's going to be like in four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3408	After a night of party and fun, I will be completely honest that the first New Year's Day is rarely a day I look forward to. But this time the new year can't come fast enough, because after eight years with a government that has prioritised the most, at the expense of those who have the least, it's finally common people's turn. And ordinary people should not only have something to live with, but also something to live for. After almost two years of pandemic and boredom in long distances, it is culture and sport that will help fill our lives with meaning again – at Christmas concert or stand up, at galleries and exhibitions. We can cheer up the favorite team on the stand or jump on the sofa while we follow a nerve-wrenching stafette or duel in the fixation. For us in the Workers' Party, it's just the width of both culture and sport that matters – whether it's pop or rock, oil on canvas or finger painting, whether the sport is big or small, whether it's team sports or individual, man or woman, whether it's north, south, east or west. With the Workers' Party, there will be a cultural promise that will ensure an open, inclusive and diverse cultural life and provide security in everyday life for those who live by giving us cultural experiences. We are committed to strengthening the artistic economy and facilitating better rights and work opportunities for artists and cultural workers. This is already demonstrated in our first budget by strengthening the artistic economy through hundreds of new work grants, strengthening the cultural fund's tour and festival support schemes and, not least, increasing the focus on internationalising art and cultural life. We will continue to invest in Norwegian films through the strengthening of the Film Foundation, the Building Cinema and the International Sami Film Institute. And we're going to strengthen voluntary teams and organisations through full VAT compensation. In addition, I am fully convinced that an improvement in the local economy will provide a real cultural boost in counties and municipalities throughout the country. It is a new time for culture, sport and volunteering – both for the performers and for us who enjoy experiencing it. And I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3425	I would like to begin by thanking both the President-in-Office and, not least, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, who have worked together for a budgetary settlement that has today provided the basis for frameworks and promises for a 2022 government budget. The negotiated state budget has a clear change of course for society and is a government budget with clear social and geographical outreach, which will provide citizens, municipalities and businesses with a basis for developing good life, services and forestry throughout the country. After numerous reports over the last eight years, which have alerted us to ever-increasing social differences, a government now has a government that will redeploy and reintroduce fiscal policies at a level that is fairer and takes care of the most vulnerable in society. After the new government presented its change proposal to the State budget for Stortinget, I have talked to many of the spokesmen in the country, who come up with some very good news. These coordinators now see a clear change of pace, which ensures local communities and municipalities a space for action in order to create the best health and care services. Local authorities across the country can now set up policies and local adaptations to meet the needs of citizens. The government’s strengthening of the municipal economy will provide lasting and beneficial effects on the primary health and care needs of people. In addition, there will now be a clear strengthening of resources for resource-requiring services, where through the years of the Solberg government, municipalities have had to take a greater and greater share of these costs from their municipal budgets. A total of 300 million. kr will increase the scope of resource-requiring services, but not at least one room for redistribution and increased effort in all municipalities in the country. The major fixed-line crisis that has been reported for many years is – and will be – an important area for the Centre Party. The previous government has not been able to come up with measures in time. To this end, a clear strengthening of the back-up arrangements for ALIS agreements is proposed and at the same time to medical care systems in the most vulnerable municipalities. This is only the beginning of a fixed medical scheme that is the mainstay of the Norwegian health system. It seems to me that local populace can now work purposefully and well to adjust their respective budgets, and even though the outside scale is now creeping down creepy towards a blue and cold level, the new state budget provides warmth and hope for the future, which ensures a more equitable welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3438	The last period was my first on Stortinget. Then there was rebellion: ferry riots, coastal uprisings, district uprisings and people's reactions, and the bandit guerrillas folded up their sleeves. There was rebellion against centralization and against the policy of right-wing government, including the Progress Party, led. But now it's a new government, and I'm glad that the Central Party's strong regional policy commitment is clear in the new red-green budget for 2022. We remember those who live out of sight. For us, small differences are important, both socially and geographically. A better ferry policy has been working for too long. Now it's going to be like that. It must also be compensated for the green shift in boat and ferry traffic, and these are good rates for coastal areas and for the environment and climate. Then it's going to work on being able to include the speedboats and the planes on the short-haul network in the price cuts. The budget is 2.3 billion. kr less in fees than the budget of the right-hand government. That's good. Then solutions have been found for several unsocial cuts, for example on the shortening of disability benefits and holiday pay on daily allowances. A great thank you to those who let go of the small income they had, those who had some residual labour again. It was a nice message to get. Then I'll say a few words about Nesna. The municipality gets better ferry services, because the county gets more money with a new government. It was nice to hear the county council in Nordland with responsibility for the finances in the county saying that when the county gets 61 million. kr more, spend a lot of money on cheaper ferries and better route offers. The money is to be used for better services for people. There will be recordings of new students at Nesna the next autumn. Seven weeks after the new government platform was presented, we know that. When the additional proposal of the new government was put forward, it was quite clear that more attention should be paid to education, but the concepts used in higher education at Nesna have been disturbing. I believe that the text there should mirror the concepts of the Hurdal platform better. But an additional proposition is presented under great time pressure. What we know now is that there is a commitment of will, power and money to get both reestablished and further developed Campus Nesna.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3451	The transport sector accounts for about one third of all greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, which are to be halved by 2030. There is a need for a radical transformation of the transport budget. SV will allocate far more to environmentally friendly transport than the government, and the impact is derived from proposing cut-offs in environmentally hostile motorway projects and higher environmental taxes. The railway shall bind cities and parts of the country together to replace four-field motorways and aeroplanes. It has to be cheaper and better to travel collectively. We need to create an attractive and nationwide train service for passengers and freight. Goods on the track are still losing relative to goods on the road. This is contrary to good climate and environmental policies, and is contrary to the Stortinge objectives for freight transport. Norwegian cities and towns need to be less car-based and more affordable and pleasant. Few people need to use the car for work, school and kindergarten. That's why we've also recovered the amount of the smaller cities that are part of the urban growth agreements, in the budget agreement with the Workers' Party and the Center Party. We will also extend these urban growth agreements and provide more collective support to several cities in the country. Then we've been worried about the situation of public transport. Routes were among the companies that announced that it would be routed if the aid did not come. It would have had dramatic consequences, because we know that a good offer is essential for people to choose to travel by public transport. That is why I am pleased that we have now established in the budget a compensation mechanism to counteract the negative repercussions of the pandemic on public transport. But still, we are a long-distance country, and the need for the car is huge in many places. SV has therefore received several important budget awards for electric cars, and it has been important for us to give priority to achieving the electric car target for 2025. It has been announced for a long time that the electric car target would not be reached in 2025 without further action. In particular, the leasing market and vans have been far behind in electric car sales, which could have torpedoed the electric car target, and thus also had serious consequences for Norway's ability to cut enough emissions from the transport sector and achieve the climate objective that we are obliged to achieve under the Paris Agreement. With these electric car winches, SV hopes we'll get a new one in the electric car revolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3466	Today, the Storting adopted a budget that takes Norway in a new and fairer direction, a direction with less inequality, more well-being, more security and better preparedness. This is a historic green and fair budget. It's a budget that announces a fight against Difference Norway, and it's a struggle to preserve our social model. Ordinary people should work in a safe working life and pay less taxes on their own income. Well-being services such as kindergarten and SFO are cheaper for everyone. Large-scale assets and revenues shall contribute more to the community. Regardless of where a cage is located in Norway, the community should set up when it really needs it. In recent years, people in parts of the country have experienced more insecurity. In order to regain security, it is crucial that police, ambulances, and fire and rescue services are more present and coming faster, especially in the districts. This budget significantly strengthens the local economy. Municipalities and counties get a real growth of 4.5 billion. kr in free income. It means more well-being across the country, such as more care for the elderly, better schooling and quality of kindergartens, but it also means more and better preparedness in the municipal sector. The resources to deal with crises must be available throughout the country. The main response resource is the local police in cooperation with municipalities, health services and the fire and rescue services. This budget will strengthen the security and services of citizens throughout the country. The Norwegian community with high confidence, living communities and a strong public sector is a solid starting point for good preparedness. Then the strengthening of the local economy is a significant contribution. It's by building on the best thing in our country that we get people on a big social level. Strong communities, high trust and small differences are crucial for people to be able to safely participate in the development of Norway. When the government in the draft budget prioritizes actions that respond to the challenges people face in everyday life, building trust and community and reducing the differences between people, it also equips Norway to solve the major challenges ahead of us, such as climate crisis, digitisation and solving the major challenges of the welfare state. The goal of the government is a justice sector that provides legal security, better prevention, where resources are available and find each other, and where police and emergency services are present in Norway as a whole. The most important thing is to ensure that crime and unwanted events do not happen. The government must fight crime, but also the causes of crime, by preventing and investigating better. In this budget, the government meets these challenges of investing 200 million. NOK more to the police and SEK 30 million. kr more to increase the capacity of the Public Prosecutor’s Office. Summer up: The government budget is setting out a new and fairer course for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3479	The free legal aid system is one of the most important mechanisms we have to ensure that people have their rights respected. That is why I am proud that the SV in the budget unit was given an assurance that children affected by expulsion cases will receive free legal assistance. These are serious issues; these are issues with great consequences for the children involved. There are children who have been on the run, children who live in insecurity in families with an uncertain future, and they are extra vulnerable. It is therefore absolutely essential that the apparatus around jobs be well equipped and ensure adequate legal assistance. I am also pleased that we have put in place a real strengthening of our heroes in Jussbuss and NOAS. There are people who make a difference in asylum seekers and immigrants' lives with their work, competent professionals who work thoroughly, objectively and humanely with things where our system does not always reach. Multiple cases end in the courts, and outcomes in 60 pst. they show that the foreign authorities are not always right. But with increased funds, even more could get help, not only to be right, but also to get right. This is not just the case number and legal interpretation of paragraphs. It's human creatures. It is a start – there is a start to work to ensure the legal certainty of asylum seekers, and not least by putting in place a two-party process in the Study on Foreign Affairs. Everyone shall have the right to be heard in matters affecting them and their lives. It is disappointing that this government does not want to listen to the UN and protect the number of quota refugees requested, nor will they accept more asylum seekers from Greece. We are closing our borders while there are still crowded prison-like camps out in Europe. Integration is a word that politicians often use, either because we don't think it's good enough, because we want to place responsibility somewhere, or maybe also as an excuse for not accepting more people on the run. But the content of that word we should perhaps talk more and more about – all the small and big things we as society can facilitate so that the individual can become part of our community. It's about money, but it's also about attitudes, how we talk to each other and not about each other, and in a meeting between cultures and people. We see how many communities accept their new neighbours — they set up late and early on a voluntary basis to welcome their neighbours — and how they protest when governments unreasonably send someone out of the country after they have been integrated. This is not something that we can adopt politically, but we can and must adopt an asylum and refugee policy that facilitates that in fact it is possible. Here we still have a lot to do. SV promises to continue this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3490	Recently, I visited over 100 trustees in agriculture in the interior. New government has created expectations and a changed mood among farmers. That's good, because agriculture is a bearer in our society. It's about safe food production, thousands of jobs across the country. But it's also about an industry that's gone tired, which wants a different policy than what we've had in the last few years. It has shown not least the strong peasant revolt in the last year. New government means that both optimism and belief in the future are back, because our government is already delivering with this budget. One of the first things we did was to agree with agriculture on a preliminary compensation of 750 million. kr over the State budget. We have great ambitions on behalf of Norwegian agriculture, and the Hurdal platform is ticking out a new direction, where the social mission for agriculture is to ensure enough safe food produced on Norwegian natural resources. If we are to succeed, the farmer must have a wage to live on. That's why we say that the income gap between agriculture and other groups in society needs to be narrowed. This day I heard former State Council Victor Norman mention Gudbrandsdalen as the country’s most beautiful valley. That's very well said. And then it's like this in the Gudbrand valley, where I live, that the beautiful cultural landscape doesn't come of itself. An active agriculture, herds and herding through generations has shaped the unique landscape. In order to maintain this, we need to reverse a trend with centralisation and maximum use. We need to facilitate a varied usage structure adapted to the country in which we live. Therefore, an increase in investment funds of 200 million has also been introduced. kr for small and medium-sized applications. At the same time, we will set a quota ceiling on milk production that is adapted to the agriculture we have, and we will have to carry out a more restrictive predatory management. That's good news, not least for the country's most beautiful valley. One of the finest things about Norway is that there are people living in the whole country, and that we can produce the world's best food from our own natural resources. New government, in good company with SV, is calling about this, with a new and more offensive direction in agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3505	The President may agree that it is also very beautiful in the Gudbrand valley.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3510	Current prices are shooting in the weather, health is becoming more expensive, and differences are increasing. It is gratifying that several of the small cuts of the Solberg government are being reversed. What's not as enjoyable is that the self-interest in health care increases by 461 kroner. It'll be more expensive to be sick next year. Greetings to the government for ordinary people. Higher proportions of healthcare will reinforce the differences, and I really can't understand why the government will continue such an increase from the right. And unfortunately, the budget is also quite toothless on dental health. It is not in the vicinity of living up to the objective of equalising dental care with other health services. In fact, if it goes at this rate – which is from the budgetary agreement – it will take many, many years before the target is met. Too many years for people who live with pain and suffering and a dental bill they can't pay for. And it's incomprehensible that the government is questioning the tax settlement with the right. They're at peace with tax cuts that have had the most to say for increased inequality, i.e. the low corporate tax. It actually makes the one percent that's the richest pay lower taxes than a lot of ordinary workers. If you increase that tax from 22 to 23 pst, it will be 4.4 billion. kr – money that could have gone to actually have a proper implementation of dental reform and reversal of the increase in self-interest. That's what the government chooses not to do. The time for the richest percent to be satisfied must be over. The time for health to become more expensive must also be over, because after eight years of civil government privatisation has been built up and health care has been reduced. Health crises reinforce the need to strengthen public health services. But we can't say that we didn't know. The hospital capacity was already too low before the pandemic, we knew that the preparedness was too poor, and we knew that we needed more nurses. We've had eight years of right-wing government, so the Labour Party and the Center Party came to power with a budget settlement, and then we'll always hear, we've had so little time. But to be honest, it's actually possible to do more if you want to do it. And if there's one thing that I hope this government is now taking hold of, then it's the hospital capacity, and that's strengthening the well-being, because we need the nurses who are there now, and then they need pay and working conditions to actually stay there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3522	The green shift is not about whether we're going to cut the emissions, but how we're going to do it. When the goal is to cut emissions and create new green jobs, today's government is doing the opposite compared to the Solberg government. Even the government and the Swedish Government say that they cut more greenhouse gases in their budget than the Solberg government did in its proposal. It's hard to see that it can vote. But what we can say with certainty is that the three parties will create fewer green jobs in the future. They will simply weaken the assumptions for the green shift, weaken the value creation, weaken the innovation and therefore also weaken the economic prerequisite for conversion, because it will be more expensive and less predictable for those who want to create new jobs. An extra tax bill of 10 billion. kr is 10 billion. kr less for green job and value creation. It will be de motivating for resilient enterprises, which will primarily facilitate the creation of new values. We need more green, new industrial jobs. We need new solutions, but the only thing we've heard from so-called innovation and government innovation is old ideas that the state should run the industry itself. We don't need a state hydrogen company. It shows the establishment of Gen2 Energy in Lake Mosque and Aker Solutions’ industrial plans in Narvik. These are good examples of that. This is about good framework conditions, because the ringing effects and optimism these establishments create are great, not just locally, but throughout North Norway. For North Norway, the green shift is in practice a reality. It's happening right now. But it doesn't help much when it comes to cutting and lifting breaks in the north, and when the state wants to outrun private companies in creating the green jobs and values to build the well-being of the years to come. In the Hurdal platform, the government believes that the northern regions are Norway's main strategic field. The government will make the north areas the center of green conversion. Then it seems that the Workers' Party and the Centre have forgotten this, when they, together with SV, choose to cut many millions of kroner in north-eastern actions and warn that the government wants to kick bones under those who actually want to establish a new Norwegian green industry, because the government thinks they can run the best of their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3531	Today is a good day – a day when we will adopt a budget that will bring Norway in a fairer direction, a budget with a clear social democratic footprint. There's a lot to rejoice about – and, President, I have to share the joy with you: today I woke up to the world's best news from Minister of Labour Hadia Tajik: pension from the first crown as early as next year – a proposal we get the pleasure of negotiating in this room in a short time. I note that the representative, Mr Asheim of the Right, in the change of line with the parliamentary leader, Mr Aasrud, is concerned about the implementation by the Workers' Party of new policies for ordinary people, and that at the same time it is being rolled out so quickly. In this case, it is probably more correct that the bill Asheim is concerned about, is “long overdue” – so “long overdue” that many of the businesses have already introduced this a long time ago. Now there is one million employees who first receive pension from the employer after they have earned NOK 106 000. Let me raise a working group where this is common. It's a group I know well, and it's the working group that may meet the population most often by all workers, every day, sometimes several times a day, even under the pandemic. They are the ones who accept us, assist us and help us in the jungle of products and goods. It's the ones that allow you to enjoy Christmas, the Christmas cod, the Christmas rib and the risk strip, if you don't go out into the woods and shoot the food yourself, namely the country's shopkeepers. These are good-looking workers who have good reason to enjoy today's news of retirement, and only in Oslo counts the 51,000. I think we should give these an extra thought the next time we're in the store. They deserve our respect, and they deserve us to arrest them when we trade, by using mouthbands, so they stay healthy if we carry covid-infection we don't know about. And I think we should pick up our packages as soon as possible before Christmas. When we see the pile of packages at Posten's reception, we'll remember that there are shopkeepers who every day look at these from the car into the shops, so that you and I can pick them up. I think they deserve every penny of service – from the first penny.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3542	Equal opportunities are essential to balance social differences. The biggest difference between people depends on whether you're at work or if you're outside. In an uncertain pandemic, it is therefore essential to keep pace with getting people back to work and creating new jobs. It is striking that job creation is not a topic when the government and SV present their budgetary unity. There is no political signal that the government has any goal of creating jobs. A crucial objective for the Right has always been that the coronary apathy should not help more people to stay out of work. Where in this budget is something that stimulates job creation? Where in this budget do we find solutions that will make it pay to work? The budgetary unity we are debating today is primarily increasing public expenditure with the surplus from extraordinary electricity prices. There's a tax bill for 10 billion. to employers, small and medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises. Teachers, midwives and conductors are outside the definition of ‘common people’ and are now starting to pay top taxes. The NHO director was as clear as you can be: the comparison with SV makes it harder to run a business in Norway. The time we live in is very special. Not only are we going to keep living in our economy despite an ongoing pandemic, but we are also going to change and create new green jobs. How to do that. has the government and the Swedish government poor or no answers. The fact that the country is to a greater extent engaged in industrial activities and is competing with existing private enterprises is not a good solution. To phase out private enterprises that contribute to our welfare services is diluting an entire labour market, and it gives users less freedom of choice. Those who are going to build our future job market are now getting an increased tax bill and a clear message that it is becoming more difficult to do business. We are totally dependent on creating something before we can increase public expenditure. It is good social policy to create jobs and include people in the labour market – increasing taxes is not.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3561	In the cultural budget, the government in the supplementary budget has strengthened many of the areas. We are happy about that, but the stakes are in some areas too cautious and small. SV is pleased with the strengthening of the artistic economy, where we agreed on a solid increase in artists' scholarships. We look at this as a good start and will continue to work for an escalation of 500 homes over the four-year period. We are pleased that we were able to negotiate an increase in the grant to the actor and dancer alliance, so that they can hire more artists who get a stable income even between paid assignments. There is also agreement that funds should be set aside to initiate a musical alliance in accordance with the same principle in 2022. Some small but important appropriations that we have fought for are worth mentioning. We've got $1 million. kr extra to TV BRA – TV channel for, with and by people with disabilities. Someone probably got acquainted with them when they made election broadcasts earlier this year. If you have not seen this, I strongly recommend downloading the TV BRA app. We have increased funding for KODE museums and artists' homes in Bergen, we've got 5 million. kr extra to the Sami Film Institute, and worth mentioning is also 2 million. kr extra in operating aid for the sheltered oldest sailing coaster «Anna Rogde» in the north. SV is concerned that the cultural field itself should allocate funds through the large schemes. That is why we want to strengthen the budget vigorously with increases to Norsk cultural funds, Audio and Video Fund, the film fund, regional film centres and regional cultural funds. This is what will do for those who know the subject to distribute the money, and that at political level we will keep the arm's length distance necessary for the free and independent cultural life. SV is also concerned with creating literacy and interest in literature in all ages and communities. Special attention is paid to literacy for children and young people. In the SV's alternative budget, we have set aside 90 million. kr to a strengthened purchasing system for prosecuting, purchasing budget and development of libraries and a national read strategy. SV recognises the free editor-driven media as an important premiscible for democracy and general public information. Therefore, SV has also proposed a significant strengthening of media support. In addition, we are pleased that this budget provides funds for the work of equality, anti-racism and non-discrimination. We also had a desire to grant money to Safemuse's residence for persecuted and threatened artists, for many artists are threatened, imprisoned and tortured around the world. They need protection to practice their art and to survive.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3578	Today, I am very, very proud to be involved in adopting a budget that takes Norway in a new and fairer direction, because now we are delivering both a historic green and fair budget. We're reducing the differences, we're strengthening the welfare, we're cutting the greenhouse gas emissions, and we're removing the unsocial cuts of the right-hand government. We provide a budget that gives municipalities and county municipalities the opportunity to provide good services to the inhabitants and run development, not liquidation. Too many municipalities have experienced cuts on cuts and a state that runs away for several years. In Northern Ireland alone, municipalities receive 116 million. kr more and over 30 mills. kr extra in free revenues and almost the same amount to reduce ticket prices for ferries. It means more well-being across the country, more care for the elderly, a better school and increased quality in kindergartens. We're also reversing the Solberg government's proposed $300 million cut. SEK in grants for resource-intensive services. Together, it will both strengthen the economy of municipalities and enable them to provide better services to citizens, who are required to provide comprehensive health and care services. Now, luckily, it ended at the time when it was spent 50 billion dollars. NOK just to cut the property tax, while the others got increased probabilities, more expensive kindergartens and SFOs and increased fees, while those sitting at the bottom of the table got an infinite list of petty cuts. We must not forget that, less than two months ago, we had a government that cut physical therapy to damage to fire and to people who had amputated an arm or foot, who cut in dental regulation for young people with skew teeth, in the spectacle support for young people with poor eyesight, in the children's supplement for disabled people and in undressed income for those who could work a little extra. The list of unsocial cuts is as evil as only eight years of right-wing policy can create. We now secure holiday pay for the day, extend the right to work clearance money, reintroduce the child allowance for the disabled and cutlery not without income from the first crown. With the Workers' Party in government, election vows are made into reality. Ordinary people will notice a difference from the first day of 2022 through the budget adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3591	Today there is a joyous day for the K5 joint project – a new road between Bergen and Voss. Now we're starting to see light in the tunnels in the West, because now safe road and path are going to be a reality. E16 and Bergensbanen are a main vein between east and west, a main vein with road and track that has our race faces, and which has created concerns with a significant risk of life and health for those who have traveled on this road. Today I'm not going to talk about all the races that have gone on the E16, or all those that have stood along this raspy stretch and promised means. I want to talk about all the advantages we get. With 214 million. In 2022, we can finally plan for a future in which our professional drivers will have a safer working day. We can safely send our children and families on a run between Bergen and Voss. We get climate-friendly transport between Bergen and Oslo because a good deal of goods and goods can pass on to the railway, and Bergensbanen will be a real alternative to aircraft for passenger traffic. These are concrete measures that will cut emissions. On top of all of this, we have reduced running time between Oslo and Bergen. This is a stretch that both industry and private people have had the highest on their desired list of road sections that need to be repaired. The Solberg government did not allow enough resources to maintain progress in both road and rail planning for the whole route Bergen-Voss. With an extra of 114 million. kr is now provided with the necessary means for maintaining progress in the further planning of new roads and railways all the way to Voss. And with the start of the Ringeriks track in the east of 2022, another hour of travel time will be saved. The Bergensbanen was a revolution in 2009, and now we are again going to revolutionize the journey between the two largest cities with a train time down to 4 hours between Bergen and Oslo. I would like to thank the government and the Swedish Government, who have listened to us in the West, and have taken a serious look at their promises and words in action.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3604	The country for which we are now to adopt a budget is long-term and diverse. There are large and smaller cities, rural and fishing areas, different opportunities and different challenges. Common to all is that it is in the south or in the north that people live in these municipalities – people who depend on a strong and powerful community economy. Over the years, Norwegian municipalities have gained more and more tasks and expectations. It is a wish – and it may also be a need – that more tasks should be done in municipalities, but it requires. In addition, there are several older people who, even with good reforms, will need health and care services in the years to come, and too many are resource-intensive services. We also have a younger generation that has completely different demands and expectations, and it is to be covered in school, activity offers and eventually with easily accessible health services. SV is therefore relieved that we have received a budget that strengthens the content of the tasks that the municipalities have. A strengthened community economy is an important step on the road. We would like the amount to be slightly more consistent with the SV's alternative budget. It would give the municipalities significant increase in free resources. But measures such as free SFOs are a beginning. Child-responsiveness is important. It will prevent, especially for children who are now growing up in sustainable low-income families, and it is also a scheme that many municipalities have already adopted. Increased provision for students in need of mental health care is good. It's a beginning of an increased bet in this area as well. It is also good that several unsocial cuts are reversed – as many have mentioned here today. Children's supplement for disabled children, children's spectacle support and not curtailment in casualty will provide a better everyday life with slightly increased purchasing power for many. There are many unsolved tasks and many needs that have not been met in this budget – for both municipalities and municipalities. SV will continue to work on the policies and efforts we have in our alternative budget. We can mention free cultural schools, strengthening community leisure clubs, increased grants to municipal public libraries, and not least a stepping up of low-threshold mental health and drug services. We see an ever-increasing need for how early efforts can be absolutely essential, but it requires funds, and it requires professionals across the country. There is therefore a need for further strengthening of free resources for municipalities so that we strengthen the public services where people live, but in such a way that local democracy gets jobs and even priorities based on the opportunities and challenges they see. SV is satisfied with a good start. A reverse operation is in progress, and we're going to continue the important work for those who need us the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3621	There has been an interesting debate to follow. One by one from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have been up and applauded the budget that they agree on, but there has been little enthusiasm about the future, and that is understandable. It has been talking about the snow that fell last year, and so also in 2013. They've talked a little bit about students, which are also understandable. What they have to offer students in high school who live in a cabin is NOK 170 more a month. The intention of the Higher Education Act for all is becoming more difficult and more difficult to achieve for those living in shelters around Norway. They've talked a little bit about maritime industry, and the proposal that's on the table within the net pay system puts the workplaces at risk. That is why it is also understandable. But most seriously – little has they talked about the pensioners. The cooperating parties have all promised increased minimum pensions, but this they do not follow up. A retirement pension shall help all older people to have a worthwhile old age based on earned rights. The pension reform was introduced in 2011, against the votes of the Progress Party, and the reform led to the under-regulation of the old-age pension and the loss of purchasing power by the country’s pensioners over several years. Fortunately, we changed it in February of this year, ensuring an increase in income equal to the average of wage and price growth. Through government participation, we have been able to pay for parts of the weak income growth of the country's retirement pensioners. By increasing the minimum pension several times and reducing the shortening between married and cohabiting, the overall tax burden is reduced. This has strengthened the economy of the country's pensioners. But despite this, there are still more games. Married and cohabiting pensioners still get their pension curtailed every year. It should concern more than the Progress Party that the country's minimum pensioners have more than ten thousand fewer lives per year than is the level at the EU poverty line. The point of progress is that those who have the lowest pension will have their pension increased. It is very important that they get a normal daily economy. We are therefore proposing in our option to increase the minimum pension by NOK 5000. Within and outside the government, we have increased the minimum pension by NOK 21 000, and with this increase we had an increase of NOK 26 000. It will make everyday life easier for those who have the least to walk with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3636	Ask a people in the street in Norway about how they experience legal certainty in their everyday lives, we can settle down that we live in the country where people state the second highest sense of legal certainty in the world. In this way, everything is good in the legal state of Norway. But people's experience of legal certainty does not always match what the system actually is like. The woe of the rule of law is probably hardly anything people think about in their everyday lives, but when you face a big system or a strong counterparty, you quickly feel powerless. The need to strengthen legal certainty in Norway is quickly noted. What do you do when the owner of the house tries to throw you out on no basis, or you're in a child distribution case, or you want to complain about a Nav decision and can't afford a lawyer? In order to remedy this situation, the Free Legal Aid Scheme was introduced in its time, but because the income limit has not followed the price and wage trends in society, solitude is now outside the scheme, because the minimum benefit exceeds the income limit of NOK 246 000. There are currently too large class divisions in the judicial system. There are examples of people with very low incomes just above this limit taking consumer loans in order to be able to pay for legal aid. Do we want it like that? Do we think that's good enough? In countries like Sweden and Denmark, about 40 pst. by the population covered by a legal aid scheme. In Norway only 8,5 pst. covered by such a scheme. Then it may not be so strange that even the UN Committee on Human Rights has criticised this very scheme. To use Kim Larsen's words, I can't understand what a government should do well for, if it's not to help the weak. The strong will be all right. SV entered into negotiations with the government to ensure a policy that reduces the differences between those who have much, and those who have little. One of the best-selling goods in society is legal certainty. That is why it was important to strengthen legal certainty for those who need it the most. One hundred million. kr extra to the free legal aid system is the most strongly lifted in several decades. Not only is the income limit increased, but we have also committed the government to propose a new law on legal aid by the spring of 2023. Then we really get to review the scheme and look at what areas we're going to expand it to. SV has long been committed to extending this mechanism, and that is why we are already doing so in this budget. We provide free legal assistance for children affected by expulsion cases. It's an important start. I'm very happy that we're getting to this. In two weeks SV has been able to strengthen the legal aid system more than the previous government did in eight years, and I am proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3649	The history of Norway has shown us that community functions. The fact that we have a welfare state where we take care of each other, a public health system and a public school, is not something that has come about by itself, it has come about because the labour movement through a hundred years of struggle has fought for benefits and rights that make Norway one of the world's best countries to live in. We're gonna be proud of that. But we'll never rest on the laurels and take anything for granted. Because our base wall welfare state is built on, and we're proud of, the last few years have begun to crack crack, and three letters are central to the attack on the welfare state: not ABC, but ABE. The ABE reform, popularly known as the red tape and efficiency reform, wasimplemented by the Solberg Government in 2015 and means that state activities face annual budget cuts. You can wonder if the SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party messed up their marker booth during the negotiations, because in the next year's budget, for 2022, and in the budget agreement, there are still traces of Erna Solberg when they put in the proposed cut for next year. The ABE reform is one of the most ideological reforms of the former right-wing government. We can't let it live on in 2022 as well. What Red does in his budget, is to reverse the coming cuts, the fresh cuts for 2022, at $1.9 billion. kr. To reverse what has not happened should be a sort of minimum. Let me remind you that in this Chamber there have been earlier statements by Labour Party politicians, among others. by the Council of State of Hadia Tajik, on the ABE reform: ‘This affects patients and hospital staff, victims of violence waiting for judgment and the safety of prison staff. It will also have a strong centralising effect.’ The Red fully agrees and should wish the Workers' Party also followed up in action. Another argument that I have heard – a strange one as such – is that all businesses have planned to cut in 2022, and it would therefore be unpredictable to remove them. What had helped, had been to finally calm the employees of the public enterprises. Especially because of the pandemic and high pressure, I think the staff of Nav, FHI, Health Directorate, etc. is quite worn, like many others. And that would actually have helped make it a little more liberal over New Year's. Let me remind you that there are still very uncertain times. If the infection situation changes and there is a new economic downturn and new contractions, it is not good that, for example, Nav gets a greater pressure on case handlers who work with the daily allowance. I believe that the workers in the hospitals, in the Nav offices and in prisons had earned more and better than continued cheese needs in 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3672	Had I not been better after a few hours in the hall today, I would have thought that there was still a campaign, and I am a little uncertain about whether I am most impressed, or whether I think it is most scary. Ordinary people also have their children in private kindergartens. Ordinary people work there. They have family members who are affected by rare diseases and who need a slightly different follow-up from the one they can get in the hospital. Ordinary people report as foster families. Drug addicts are ordinary people, even if the criminal policy of the government should provide something else. It's more common now than before to struggle with eating disorders. Many common people will choose more for themselves, and common people often depend on the state making private people with capacity available because not all common people can buy past the queue. For the option for ordinary people, it's just that they stay in line – queue for their kids in kindergarten, queue for help with a drug problem, queue for the surgery that allows you to go back to work or join your child's football training. For eight years with right-wing rule, our goal has been that more people should have freedom of choice and decide more about their own lives. More people need to be treated more quickly and more people need to be able to create their own jobs. And I think the president takes my point: that ordinary people are different people. Now you have to look at how to remove private ones in the welfare services. Then I think you can ask quite a number of Central Party rapporteurs across our country – or those who live in the innermost, as I have now learned that it's called – about how it's going to work in their municipality, how the offer in their municipality for their inhabitants is going to be. My suspicion is that there will be no better care, there will be no more places, and there will be no more freedom of choice. I also think we can establish that the unusual people, whoever it may be, are doing quite well. They may be worse for ordinary people. Yes, perhaps it is even such that it was not their turn anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3683	It's not every day that we put obstacles in the way of oil companies' eleven-ville performances in the pursuit of more fossil energy. This was done by SV on Monday when we got an impression that no 26 concession round on Norwegian base would be published next year. In addition, the CO 2 tax on oil companies shall be increased significantly. A conversion fund to be financed by a levy on oil and gas production shall be explored and an climate agreement between the Government and the oil companies shall be considered. SV believes that such an agreement can be based on the same reading as the NO X fund of business. There was an agreement SV had made it possible for the state and the business community to establish when Norway failed to fulfil its obligations to cut emissions that led to acid rain. The agreement has resulted in our reaching our international commitments. In addition, SV has increased the allocation of public transport and thus contributed to securing it through the pandemic. And not least we got more money into Enova. That's important, because it gives people the opportunity to put in place an additional measure that will give them a lasting reduction in electricity billing. This winter, power prices have exploded. I spoke yesterday to a single mother who was sitting on the bathroom and working. She did not dare to use the stream of fear for the next bill. She has also not been among those who have been able to afford to implement additional measures. That is why we must now have a commitment to energy efficiency improvement which will also benefit people with poor advice. Yesterday afternoon, SV invited the government parties to come to us and join us and set up a system that helps people who are now struggling with a sky-high electricity bill. We are pleased that the government parties today answered yes to our invitation early today and will make such a proposal. That's good, because urgent action is needed to help people who are now struggling with the power bill. We in SV expect the proposal from the government to come quickly, that it will come before Christmas, so that people can go to Christmas with certainty that they will get help to pay the sky-high electricity bills.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3704	The representative Drevland Lund is already doing comeback.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3709	You're not rid of me yet! When I say 1 pst., what do you think about then? That's not the tax rate Right wants to go, but it's actually 1 pst. of the world's population now in flight. It means over 82 million people, estimates the UN. Not since World War II have more people been fleeing, and it is serious. Often we hear talk about the refugee crisis. The truth is that this crisis is not over. It's just to look at all the people who are currently at the border between Belarus and Poland, all those who are at risk of life over the Mediterranean, or all those who are in refugee camps in the so-called neighbourhoods. For these people, there is still a crisis. We can't do everything for everyone, but we can do something. I am then disappointed that the budgetary agreement is still unable to comply with the request of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, namely to accept 5,000 quota refugees. In addition, we set aside money to receive a further 1,500 from the crowded camps in Greece and Italy. We have to provide a proper and fair treatment of the people who are already here. Tomorrow I'll meet Helene Austad on the outside here, a woman who fights to get her husband back to Norway. The man Haji has been sent out of the country despite having two children, despite having a son who has died here. In addition, Haji has a work contract and a job, but he is not Norwegian enough for Norway. He does not have strong enough belonging to the kingdom. Understand the one who can. Another example is Delnaz, Khairi and Della, all born in Norway and living in Tønsberg with their parents Amat and Dakhwaz. Delnaz and Khairi go to school and Della in kindergarten. The children had a temporary residence permit in Norway, but the Norwegian State has withdrawn it. The family did not win with their complaint to UNE. These children are ours. These are our children, and they should be allowed to live in Norway and have a safe upbringing. The family has nothing to go back to in Northern Iraq. They are Jesuits, a persecuted religious minority group, and it is inhuman to send the family to a life in refugee camps. Norway can do better than this. Therefore, Red believes that all children born in Norway should automatically have Norwegian citizenship. In addition, we believe that there is a need for a five-year limitation period for the withdrawal of citizenship. In our alternative budget, we also remove funds allocated to the transport and withdrawal of citizenship from this year's budget. A new solidarity, humane and humane asylum and immigration policy is needed – as a violation of the policy that has advised for too long, regardless of who has been in government. It's unfortunately something I think we're also going to look a long way behind with this government, but Red is going to keep fighting with everyone else out there for a new policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3728	‘The way they stopped me was aggressive and came out of the blue. There was no explanation; they just snaked me into the nearest wall. They got my ID, but they weren't convinced that I wasn't who they were after." And on the other hand, ‘It happened in front of people, and it was quite traumatic. It drew unnecessary attention». This happened last year to Abdi about the search that happened when he was 15 years old, the first of several searches he was going to experience. «I was 14 years old and hung out with my friends in my community at Lindeberg when a patrol drove by. They stopped and asked, "What are you doing here? Do you have anything on you?" Then they wanted to search us. When I asked why, I was thrown hard into the wall." This told Norwegian-Somalic Mubarak Omer to the Evening Post last year. Mubarak Omer has been stopped over ten times by the police for no reason, and he is clear that this has gone beyond his trust in the Norwegian police. Lawyer Awon Amidu of Trondheim received this year's support in the Discrimination Study that the police had stopped him much more frequently than the people else, and that this was based on his skin color. 22-year-old Moin informed a few years ago of TV 2 that he had been stopped more than 30 times by the police in recent years. I've never been stopped by the police randomly on the street, and that's because I look like I do. Ethnic profiling has taken place in Norway, and it does. These are not my words, these are the words of the then Prime Minister of Right, Erna Solberg. The police depend on trust to do their job in a good way. Many people experience being stopped by the police on the basis of their skin color, and there is a need for more knowledge of the scope of such a practice both for the police, for those who are constantly experiencing discontinuation, and for developing good policies to counter this. That is why it is huge and important for many that we now start a pilot project to ensure the notoriety of personal checks. As an SV and as an anti-racist, I am proud to have secured throughput to start with a receipt scheme. There are many who have fought for decades for this. We've discussed it several times in this room, and now it finally happens. Opposing discrimination and racism is not just about fine party speeches; it is about the policy we are pursuing. For SV, it is important that that policy is clear and that it is anti-racist.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3749	The country gets a budget adopted tonight, but I believe that several elements of what has been negotiated will take Norway in the wrong direction. I understand that action is being taken to ensure Nesna's operation in higher education, but putting education at Nesna again, under North University, will most likely have to lead to an internal struggle for funds. In my part of the Northern Trøndelag, we have several places of study that are associated and organized under the North University. I fear that these will now compete with Nesna for the scarce resources, and that this could lead to a negative development for the places of study, which are already threatened. I hope I'm wrong, but if I don't, this will be negative for the other places of study in the Nordic University. Education is alpha and omega if we're going to succeed in finding skilled labour and providing housing in the districts. The agricultural industry is important for rural areas. It is good that the budget agreement adds to an income gap in the industry, but I am still a little surprised that the government and SV are tightening up the income target that was agreed by all parties in 2016. This is a decision that the income gap between agriculture and other groups should be reduced and that good market adaptation and product development would be a prerequisite for income formation. But I fear that during the government parties and the SV now adding up, the channelling policy will weaken, and that central areas in Norway, such as the East and the Jären, will come out of this decision better than rural agriculture, which is the part of agriculture that really needs a boost. There are many of them in the budget agreement. It is in itself dramatic for Norwegian industry and Norwegian workers. I fear a negative trend in the years to come, especially for the labour-intensive working life in the districts. One of the tax increases that are really dramatic for the industry in the districts is the tax increase related to the valuation of breeding permits. One might want to have a discussion about this. Seafood is one of our most important industries, not only in the districts, but also nationally. This grip is now directly hostile to districts and is hard on capital and jobs in the districts. It is almost incredible that such a grip is taken on the watch of the Central Party. The handle might have had something to do with taking other, nutritious grips. In this agreement, there are very few signs of private initiative and entrepreneurship organisation. I fear that this agreement will be negative for the district industries and especially for the seafood industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3762	North Norway has had a great deportation over time. This isn't just dramatic, but in a few years it would have decentralized Norway as we've known it, could have been history if we hadn't got a new policy. Finnmark has had some tough years, with a lot of relocations from many municipalities, but luckily we're getting a new chance. Our course is a completely different one than the Solberg government had staked out. From now on, investment will be made in Finnmark and districts. It's going to live and live people here, and we're going to have a goal of settlement, not relocation. The first signal we got was the so-called Finnland subtraction. It was going to increase to NOK 20 000. It's not that big an increase, but it's about the signal value this shows. Here one should not tighten in – no, one should make it easier for people living out of the way. The government will receive more goods from road to sea and will ensure the further development of fisheries-dependent coastal communities. The government will therefore strengthen its commitment to coastal, port and fairway action. I live on an island far out in the sea and am therefore very pleased with the new direction we see coming for us who live so that we have to use ferries. Here one will provide good ferry services and ensure that transfers to county ferry services are better suited to the needs of travellers and businesses. Our finance minister took this up with ferries and said that now the work started to get free ferries for islands and other communities without road connections to the mainland, and make all ferry connections with less than 100,000 passengers annually free of charge. It'll be great. No matter where we choose to live our lives, we have to have the same possibilities in life. Major and minor forms of nutrition must be heated. Different societies must have the same benefits, for example: police, health services and schools. This should be a matter of course. There are such goals that we now have to work for. The rapporteur in Båtsfjord said that we must have confidence in the fisheries policy. We have the world's best fish, and we've been processing fish for hundreds of years. We can do this. The coast wants more work, and we have to stop sending the fish abroad for production. We have to fish the fish ourselves, and we have to produce it ourselves. Everyone wants development, not liquidation. The government is now taking the necessary steps to stop centralisation. We want to develop more jobs with the resources we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3781	People are experiencing sky-high power prices. Price shock is harmful in all ways to an emergency product. People experience disempowerment. More and more people are looking for the Stortinget. What is our message to the government? The direct reason for today’s extremely high Norwegian electricity prices is that the prices of access points for Statnett’s sea cables to Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom are very high, DKK 1–4 per kilowatt-hour. The resolution of coal and nuclear power on the continent has given rise to increased demand and extremely high electricity prices. Wind, Germany’s main renewable solution, cannot replace stable production from coal or nuclear power. Germany will further reach during this and next year the phase out of two more times 4000 MW of nuclear power. Norway may exchange 9 000 MW abroad, equivalent to about one third of Norwegian maximum load in our power plants. Today's power market works. We import sky-high power prices. The extraterrestrials have become drainage, not electricity exchanges with the rest of the world. If the situation in Germany is not serious enough, it is also a fact that the UK cable now only delivers 700 MW. It shall be increased to 10,50 and then 1,400 MW. There will hardly be any current in return, except under extreme wind conditions. Current electricity prices are not the result of special and extraordinary conditions, as Statnett says. It is a misguided policy in line with climate policy. The transition from conventional gas, coal and nuclear power generation to unregulated wind and solar power generation has destabilised price formation, while becoming vulnerable to the development of the European gas market, where Russia is also important. This results in high electricity prices – yes, higher electricity prices – resulting in unstable electricity prices and extreme price variations in electricity. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has granted a concession to the laying of cables under conditions. For example, State Council Tord Lien from the Progenskrittspartiet granted a concession to Statnett for the Norlink cable from Tonstad in West Agder to Wilster in Germany on 13 October 2014. In point 12 of the concession: «The Ministry of Oil and Energy reserves the right to modify the terms of the concession during the concession period if the general interest so requires.» In Norway, the Ministry of Oil and Energy has control over our state-wide Statnett. The current situation shows that the assumptions for the concession to the direct current cable of the rest of the world have changed completely. The size must be able to take power back over the power market. I agree with those who believe that there has to be a restriction on how much power can flow out of Norway, when the level of water storage for our hydroelectric power plants is at a minimum, while the price level in our neighbouring systems is sky high. In principle, that would mean a maximum price system. It is urgent that the Stortinget now discuss the necessary system changes. International market forces for a necessity product that must be capable of being controlled from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3801	The municipality is the best friend of the inhabitants. Everyone lives in a municipality – yes, all cages in the best. I live in such a municipality – approx. 9,000 inhabitants – with good public services. Therefore, I am very pleased that the Workers' Party and the Center Party together with SV no strengthen the economy of the municipalities. An increase of 4.5 billion. kr in free income is very important. It gives municipalities, for example: Wind fjord possibility for services close to people – services performed by proud contributors who can work. Strengthening the local economy means strengthening the community. A strengthened local economy now provides, among other things, cheaper kindergartens and free core time in SFO. This will benefit the inhabitants. The fact that people who receive social assistance are not allowed to move in their child’s privacy means a lot. It's a universal order that they've lost for years, for the most part. It shows that our country in the last eight years has not been a community but a society for individuals. Now turn this around. It's good news for the country, and it's good news for everyone. The government provides important Community schemes. Another example is that the government and SV introduce the child plugin for the rest of their lives. The budget has the best thing in it – that something is also done about resource-writing services. The objective of the top funding initiative for resource-based services is simply to ensure that those of the municipalities’ citizens who need comprehensive health and care services are provided with it. The House Bank, which gave people the opportunity to build their own housing – which gave my parents the opportunity to build their own houses in the 1960s – must be strengthened. The government and SV introduce social housing again. It's socializing. As a local politician for many years, I have seen how important it is to own and own housing. There is peace and security — a good place to live. It provides more social smoothing and provides more opportunity to get its own dwelling. By now, local authorities are able to grant more initial loans. It's a good thing for all of that debt. Many municipalities are also struggling with negative population growth. Now it is possible to move home. I ended there I started. The municipality is man's best friend. The municipality provides services to the inhabitants from the beginning and to the end – your municipality and my municipality in all phases. This budget gives municipalities even bigger muscles for good public services, so it's a budget for a small and large municipality, a budget for the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3814	It was impossible to be in Glasgow without knowing the seriousness – that, for the first time in world history, we should be able to lift people out of poverty; we should be able to have more well-being without increasing greenhouse gas emissions. It's going to be demanding, and we have to be honest about that. However, combining effective climate policies with good industrial policy and energy policies can also create enormous opportunities for Norway and for Norwegian jobs. For eight years, the right has been in the brink of new, green industry, for a business that is in full swing with the transition. We've lifted sea winds, we've raised hydrogen, and we've taken hold of the force to get where it's needed. We want to use the state's purchasing power to promote new technologies, and we want targeted support schemes for businesses and people. But we are not going to get away from the CO 2 tax: pollutants are going to pay. It is the most important tool we have to develop technology, to make alternatives to fossil energy competitive and to cut emissions – not in five years, but next year. Therefore, it is surprising that SV has let the Workers' Party and the Centre's party get through and hollow out the CO 2 fee, knowing that next year there will be less greenhouse gas cut than otherwise. It is even more surprising that the government parties, yes, even Prime Minister Gahr Støre, dare so confidently claim that budgetary conciliation cuts clearly more than the Solberg government budget proposal – especially when they can hardly mention one single additional measure that will actually have an impact as early as next year. The only thing we know for sure about this budget is that the polluter has to pay less, that it's going to be cheaper to live right outside the cities and commute in by car, and that small and medium-sized enterprises get a tax return on the top of an increased CO 2 tax. In fact, it is worth reminding the Workers' Party and the Centre that fair green transition is not about slowing down and postponing climate policy for people; it is about increasing the pace of transition while redistributing and supporting those who can get outside. This is a budget that lubricates the money thinly rather than prioritizing those who need it the most. Many people get a little cheaper kindergarten, but the 40,000 families with children in Norway who have the worst income do not benefit from it. Everyone gets a little cheaper electricity tax in the budget, but ordinary families who actually need help don't get targeted support. District municipalities with many school buildings receive extra money – yes, even municipalities that receive 28 times more support per student than students in Oslo School receive. At the same time, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV choose to cut off the extra support for vulnerable students in the cities, who are very hard hit by the pandemic. Right will speed up the green transition, create more jobs and have a welfare society that is the most for those who need it the most. That's our direction for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3838	In the state budget now presented by the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and the SV, we see that there are vulnerable people and people with low incomes who are prioritised – and it's time to jam me. Norway has a diverse population, both geographically, culturally and socially. In my short time as a functioning wholesaler and a member of the Labour and Social Committee, there is one thing that has occupied me and that has led to many enquiries from all over the country. The matter in question is to reintroduce the amount of the allowance for the loss of 0,4G. This means that a disabled person can take a little extra work or participate in political work without being penalised financially. Where the government of Solberg promoted this proposal after working on it for many months, the new majority has been able to rectify it in just seven weeks. It shows a new direction in which the new majority will take the country. Now we're going to spend 250 million. This measure is a good investment in the quality of life and dignity of the people concerned. We're not going to underestimate the feeling and value it has for the individual to be able to work a little bit and feel useful, to contribute according to ability. It creates dignity in people. In my life on the side of politics – now as a big-time representative – I am delighted to be a spearhead, with 43 years of membership in the Norwegian Federation of Scouts. As a volunteer in many organisations over many years, like everyone else doing volunteer work, I don't have a figure of how many waffles, dorolls and hours of counting, etc. as voluntary work in Norway takes place every year. For all that we buy into all the organizations, whether it's music, the Red Cross or sports teams, we pay VAT. In recent years, VAT compensation has remained unchanged. The new Workers' Party-Center Party administration has now been fully compensated for VAT. It's a system that benefits everyone, whether you're rich or poor, no matter where you live, and it's not depended on where the Christian People's Party in the last government prioritised it. Here, each organisation can make its priorities free and facilitate the work of the many leaders who spend their spare time for the second week after the week for years. Here everyone can get a cheaper quota in the organisations; even the small associations can. It is also not dependent on a rich uncle, who in the gift-enhancing scheme that the government of Solberg doubted. Volunteering in Norway is through the diversity of teams and associations we have, one of the winners of this budget. It's very fun to be a politician and give it to all of the leisure heroes in the pretty country that's standing all year round.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3856	We are behind us for eight years with a centralisation government, where the Right and the Progress Party police reform led to more police in the office, longer distances between people and the police and a rather voiced treatment of the justice sector as a whole. Now the work to clean up this started. An important step for the Central Party and the Government is an offensive police budget for the whole country, with a strengthening of 200 million. kr. Some of the fasits after the previous government are among other things. the closure of well over 100 county offices after centralising the police, and 42 courts after the same centralisation tool. The Central Party and the Workers' Party have pointed out a clear direction for the country's police, where all citizens are entitled to equal rights of preparedness and must be able to feel safe in their everyday lives. There will be more policemen in the streets and more visible police near people, no matter where you live. It is therefore good that, through the budgetary agreement with SV, we agree on the involvement of police and prosecution, which facilitates both increased local presence and enhanced police content through the strengthening of crime prevention, better prevention and investigation. The former government parties have tried to create the impression that everything is in the best order. After the last government eight years, it's probably not like that. The situation after the previous government is, among other things, less local presence, with a weakening of prevention and poor police preparedness in many places. The population of the smallest municipalities feels less secure. The 2018 downgrading decision that all the remaining posts should be strengthened was not followed up by the previous government. Trustees, employees and municipalities throughout the country report that the provision of police services has deteriorated under the previous government, and the close police reform has reduced the percentage of clarification for several types of criminal cases. I could still have several things, but the challenge is crystal clear: there is a need for a strengthening of the police, prosecution and the entire criminal chain. We are in the process of doing this through the budgetary agreement between the Centre Party, the Labour Party and the SV. It is local police that form the rootstock of both prevention and crime control, whether at Stovner, in Sogndal or at Ibestad. We know that, people know that, and we're doing something about that. That's why we've committed ourselves to starting work on setting up new posts for the police as early as 2022, with a minimum staff to secure the police out there among people, and also an office that's open, where people can come. If we are to achieve the goals that the government has set itself for the police, it is essential that the police have enough resources to do the job. We've started the job – 200 million. kr extra in the State budget adopted. It's a good start, and there's reason to enjoy it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3873	Tonight it happens. Now we have had eight years of unsocial right cut, increasing differences between people and – not least – it has been the power of money that has guided social development. But tonight a budget is adopted for ordinary workers and families. The message ‘tour of ordinary people’ has inspired grassroots organisations and communities throughout the country. Among the few who have been negative, the Right and Special Representative Tina Bru, who used large parts of their national meeting speech to criticise the message. She wondered who ordinary people are. Tonight, Tina Bru gets the answer. Common people include: the families with children, who get NOK 2 900 in the wallet if you have one young person in the kindergarten, or NOK 4 900 if you have two. But Bru claims: «very little money, so little that it really isn't noticed by most». For us who are so privileged to be elected here on Stortinget, maybe not $4,900 is a be or not, but for very many, this is actually the budget for e.g. a vacation. Ordinary people are also disabled, who are now free to be deprived of the motivational money for the job they do, both in the workplace and for local democracy. Not to talk about the unemployed, who have taken the greatest noise on behalf of all of us because of the closure of society and the corona measures when they lost their jobs. Fortunately, all our workers can now meet a brighter summer, with the security of holiday money. After we had a sorely intrusive increase in numbers, the debate has largely gone on: How quickly can the new Workers' Party-Center Party government rectify the unsocial policy of the right-wing government? But today there was a funny new criticism. R. Asheim all of a sudden thought that now it is too fast to implement the Labour Party policy, because the NHO had apparently not got all the pension from the first crown they earn, and that this will in particular help many of our great shopkeepers, who either have lower wages or lower job breaks. I believe that Henrik Asheim should have brought this, because we have said, "Now is the turn of ordinary people." The change takes place ‘now!’. Therefore, the evening belongs to the unemployed, the families with children, the disabled and shopkeepers. This is their evening – because now is the usual people's trip.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3884	As Finnmark’s representative, I would like to draw attention to Finnmark. The development of the population in recent years gives all cause for concern. If we do not succeed in turning this around, we can see a popular Finnland, especially in East Finland at the border with Russia. As Norway’s main security policy region, radical action is now required. I've said it before and I want to repeat it to the boring thing: it's a security policy threat that people move from the north. I'm still optimistic. The northern regions have all the prerequisites for becoming a centre for green migration. We have the natural resources, we have the area and we have not least a favourable power situation that gives good conditions for industrial establishment. Hydrogen has never been as relevant and current as today. Norway has good assumptions for taking part in a hydrogen market, and this is not least the case in the far north of the country. The government has said in the Hurdals platform that we will help build a coherent value chain in hydrogen, where production, distribution and use develop in parallel. The State budget reinforces this work, where we are going to start a comprehensive research work on hydrogen. Furthermore, we have proposed to further strengthen Enova, a strengthening to contribute to green business conversion, and these funds may also help support hydrogen projects. The Hurdal platform is clear that we now have a government that will work for a new giver in the North Region policy. The new Northern Region policy aims to reverse the negative population trend, develop local values to generate growth and make the northern regions the centre of green conversion. There's a lot of opportunities here. As a magnificent representative from the very northernmost part of the North, I want to be a pusher and a watchman for these words to be translated into action. Finnland has a clear advantage for the production of hydrogen, such as good access to renewable energy, lower price of electricity, access to natural gas, cold climate with cold seawater for cooling, access to CO2 storage fields and an established energy industry. And with one of the largest hydrogen markets, which is today Asia, traffic through the north-east pass can become an even more important waterway for freight by sea. Let's start the job of creating a future in the north and at the same time make the northern regions the center of green conversion. Now it's North Norway's turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3905	There's no bad weather, just bad energy policy. I would like to begin by encouraging the Minister of Oil and Energy, as I see sitting in the Chamber, to draw up and give his assessment of all the proposals that have been debated today, concerning electricity and energy. These directly interfere with the responsibilities of the Council of State. Right now the prices are sky-high, and higher they're going to be if the government doesn't make a political turnaround. Then the government must also explain its political assessment, because the power crisis is no law of nature; it is a political crisis. As I said, it must be worse. The Norwegian authorities are planning to increase the capacity of the foreign tables from next year, as the representative Lundtägen had in mind. It has been a political goal for prices to rise, for us to link more closely to the European electricity market – from Tord Lien in the Progress Party to the State Council of the Workers Party today. Although the weather shifts and governments change, the same miserable energy policy is pursued, where the profits of the power industry are the guiding principle. In debates, the Council of State has supported this policy both in terms of security of supply and in terms of international commitments. But draining the water stores to sell to the maximum bidder, as has been done in the autumn, is not about security of supply. It's about making as much money as possible, costing what it's going to cost. At the same time, we see that other European countries place restrictions on their markets, namely Germany or Sweden, and this is not about international obligations, as it is about homeless market beliefs. Households also have to bear increased costs, both because of high market prices and because of planned increased charges. The cut in the electricity charge is going to be zeroed with an increase in the network rental and a running time charge on electricity, which is introduced on 1 January. If we are to have not only a new government but also a new policy, we need a new energy policy. We need immediate action – we cannot send the bill for market management to households. For what is the point of a rich country if it has a poor people? Then we have to do something about the causes of the crisis. Now we have to put social needs and considerations first. They have to weigh more than the paycheck and bonuses of the power industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3920	For all those concerned with safe communities, this budget is good news. The Centre Party, together with the Workers' Party and SV, has ensured reinforcements in the field of justice, which are important for people. To strengthen the police by 200 million. This is a concrete example of a new direction of policy. Opening up 20 new police posts and saying clearly that we need to strengthen the existing ones means something to people's everyday security throughout the country. The goal is that there will be fewer incidents where the police do not have the capacity to move out, where fire and rescue or health professionals must be in a dangerous position in the police's place, and that the police can come quickly when people need it. The centre party has been met with the claim that we are too busy with the house and build in terms of the police, and that the most important thing must be that they are on the road and are driving the patrol. Well, when the government now strengthens the police and is occupied by the offices, it is because it doesn't matter where the police move out. In our image, it's not the same whether the police move out of a centralised office miles away, or whether they move out of the place where the incident actually happened. The reports from District Norway in recent years are that the police have become more absent. The goal of government's policy now is, of course, a more present and visible police force, because the security that comes from local knowledge and presence means something to people. The government also prioritises strengthening the courts, because access to justice is important for people and for people’s legal certainty. Clearly, it means that we have courts spread throughout the country, and that these have autonomy, professional competence and local leadership. There's a difference between the law and the court, even though the Solberg government tried to make it sound more like a question of conceptualism than the centralization concept it actually was. This government will therefore restore a decentralised court structure. The courts are for people, and local courts are important for the trust in our legal system. So the government's going to spend 20 million. the recruitment of more judges in the smallest courts and courts, for experience shows that, in addition to a poorer legal offer, it leads to a deterioration in the local legal and legal environment, which obviously also has an impact on local business, public employment and communities as such. Everything is related to everything, as they say. The government takes security and legal certainty seriously, takes seriously the fact that police and justice are part of our communities and cannot be resolved as a remote-controlled service regardless of geography.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3935	The Labour Party-Center Party-Registration, in cooperation with SV, has now received a budget in a short time. This is also a budget that gives a signal that the job has started by taking the country in a new direction and using the whole country. That job starts with this budget. Where the other government cuts, we bet more on e.g. Broadband, racial security, police, municipalities and county municipalities, to name some areas. I am on the Transport and Communications Committee and would also like to say a little about the efforts of the municipalities. We have spent a long time on climate-friendly ferries and fast boats, which are important contributions to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Unfortunately, the purchase of climate-friendly ferries and speedboats has led to an increased cost for county municipalities. So we've also seen that ticket prices have increased as well. In the budget unit between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, we now ensure that the State will compensate the county municipalities for the additional costs associated with climate-friendly ferries and speedboats. The centre party has been busy bringing down the prices of ferries and speedboats, and it is clear that the county council and municipalities must be compensated for the increase in costs when the ticket prices are to be reduced. Fortunately, we've got a new plurality on Stortinget that takes responsibility for getting prices down, and that's started with it in this budget. The government is now starting work on getting a free ferry system to islands and other unconnected communities to the mainland, making all ferry connections below 100,000 passengers free of charge every year. We're also going to have to halve the cost of the ferry on the other routes. I'm unlikely to be happy with that bet. It means an unlikely amount, both for business and for people who use the ferry. I want to get into a couple more areas. When it comes to the coercive municipalities and county councils, I am very happy that things are happening in Ålesund – that the municipality of Haram now makes it possible to hold a referendum, and that Ålesund municipal government has listened to them. I am also pleased with the signals that the municipalities that are about to run these processes get compensated for their expenses. In the end, I want to talk about an industry that will also see a change with this government, and that is the taxi industry. The government will now ensure that the taxi industry will get good and order conditions where customers can feel safe and drivers can live from their jobs. We now want to put an end to what we have seen in the taxi industry, and get a serious diet in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3950	The representative Kathy Lie had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3955	SV has, as one of its main issues in this budget, a fully regulated VAT compensation for voluntary activities. Making VAT compensation regulated is an important step in creating predictability and faster payment. The government has submitted what they think is sufficient funding, and I was glad today that the Minister of Culture announced that full VAT compensation will also be granted for 2021. But one of the most important things for volunteering, that is, a regulatory system, was not implemented in the budget agreement. That is why I am pleased that the Minister of Culture, in reply to my reply earlier today, promised that she would work on the criteria of a regulated scheme towards the budget for 2023 – for the voluntary organisations, such as sports teams, corps, leisure clubs, outdoors and other local offers, should not pay VAT on income from voluntary work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3960	We have now received a government that believes in all of Norway, which fights for all of Norway, and will develop all of Norway. We fold up the sleeves and start a real bet in our districts. We also see that in the budget. We want to make the access of high-speed broadband a straight, equal line to electricity, and will ensure that all households in which it lives shall have access to high-speed broadband by 2025. Already this year, we are increasing the stakes on broadband. We are now also introducing something completely new: rural growth agreements. This is a new tool to invest in business and contribute to growth and development in our districts. Not least, we are strengthening well-being across the country. This is what we do, among other things. by increasing the free resources of municipalities and counties by 2,5 billion. kr. This means that many older people get better care, and that there are more teachers in schools to learn how to read, write and calculate, that more sports facilities are being developed, and that local businesses are being invested throughout the country. We will give ordinary people more influence over the community and its country. Now is the time for coercion, centralization and aggregation. No municipalities or counties should now experience pressure for closure or merger. Interestingly, in this debate the Progress Party has criticised the current government for the high electricity prices. It's really kind of amazing that it's going to work. After all, the Progress Party had, throughout its time in government, both the Minister of Oil and Energy and the Minister of Finance, and the Tord Lien of the Progress Party had hardly moved to become an oil and energy minister before he made it clear that he wanted more expensive power. And not only that: it was repeated that he was tired of low power prices. The progress batch increased the electricity charge by almost 50 pst. Norwegian law was amended to allow private export cables of Norwegian electricity. It was the Progress Party in the government that notified Norway into ACER, an organisation that has an explicit mission to create a fully integrated energy market across Europe. In the debate, the leader of the Progress Party showed that the Progress Party is now proposing to take control of exports of electricity out of Norway. Then it is ironic that the Progress Party in the government signed a declaration that one would not restrict the export of Norwegian electricity. In fact, the then government wrote on its own websites: ‘The declaration contributes to increased European exchange of power’. So the goal of the party in government was something quite different than what we hear now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3975	The new government, in cooperation with SV, has submitted a draft budget that provides good grounds for optimism in agriculture. The government reacted quickly and received the extraordinary cost growth that has occurred during the harvest. The newly elected Minister of Agriculture and Food barely put her new key card in the office door before she had an agreement with the parties for compensation. In addition, it is covered by an investment aid of 200 million. kr for next year. This is extra investment money that is very much in demand and that is necessary for the future if we are to succeed in a living agriculture throughout the country. Not least, the rapid and positive action of the government results in a vitamin injection into the industry. Almost 1 billion. kr has been put on the table as an immediate measure in the autumn. 754 million. kr is now paid in February, 200 million. kr is then added to the investment pot next year. It is in the interests of agriculture, it is also a good contribution to the local construction industry, it is a good signal from a government that has set a new course. For eight years, the Right-Government, along with the Advance Party, has prioritised a rise for agriculture. Norwegian food producers have been met by a government that has not been willing to meet the industry with measures they sorely need. Last year, then, the Solberg government has put the additional negotiations in fear of having to take a cost. Let there be no doubt: Norwegian food producers have an important role in society. They're going to produce clean and safe food for our people. Therefore, it is right and proper that we give farmers the same income opportunities as other groups. In conclusion, let me mention two important points that are also included in the budget agreement with SV, which provide a good direction forward: through the establishment of Bionova, we will have a toolbox that is even better rigged, so that we can achieve the climate goals that are set, including for agriculture. Bionova shall contribute to the development of industrial activities throughout the country. This toolbox shall be available as from the last six months of 2022 and shall be financed outside the agricultural negotiations. I am pleased that the parties have also agreed to submit a binding and timely plan in the coming years. The plan is to close the income gap between farmers and other groups in society. The revenue gap shall be dense irrespective of the size of use, production or part of the country. This government will contribute to a viable agriculture throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e3993	With a Workers' Party-Center Party government, there will be a new course for the country. The budget to be adopted today shows this through an offensive commitment to equal opportunities. Of course, the Labour Party has always been at the forefront of the fight for equality and to ensure that everyone is included in society – regardless of gender, sexual orientation, functionality and ethnicity. But that fight isn't over. It's our responsibility to promote equality. We still have to stand in front to fight hatred and discrimination, and our task as elected representatives is that everyone should be able to live free lives and be himself. Under the Right-Registration in the last eight years, equality has unfortunately gone backwards. In the fall, the voters gave us a clear answer that they wanted a shift – a shift for Norway, and a shift in equality policy – and with the Labour Party in government, equality is again a priority. Gender equality shall be a priority in all areas of society, including the labour market, because it is equality to ensure that everyone has the right to a whole set of fixed positions. Women and men shall be guaranteed the same opportunities, and no one shall be subjected to harassment or violence in the workplace, because violence and violence harm our health and are a serious social problem. That's why we're now strengthening our work on it. This budget is offensive to promote equality and inclusion. With the budget we adopt tonight, regional gender equality work is prioritised by strengthening gender equality centres. We provide for an increased commitment to their organisations to improve living conditions and quality of life for people who violate the traditional standards of sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression. That is why we are also supporting women's organisations and strengthening the anti-racism, discrimination and hateful expressions. Through all these strengths, we give those who work daily to increase equality, in a better way to do even more. Equality and inclusion do not come about by itself. We know that too well. Equality and inclusion come through action, and it must also be prioritised in this space. This government shows in the budget and in action that equality is being prioritised – and it slips me.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4004	The representative Grete Wold has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4009	Having a job to go to is important. Own income, experience mastery, social community and contribute to paying taxes, yes, being able to participate in the community at all, provide quality of life. When many people fall out of work, we have to look at different ways to solve it. Nav does a great job and works well with many different actors. In addition, we have voluntary organisations that set up and find creative ways to solve individual challenges. It's not all that we politicians have to rule too much with, but we have to facilitate so that diversity can flourish. We are particularly pleased that in this budget we strengthen schemes such as Job Cleansing, so that more women who receive social assistance can continue to participate. That's what results are. SV will further strengthen voluntary organisations in the field of integration, as we see that this work benefits from listening to them and creating learning venues between people. The interaction between the public and the voluntary sector needs to be strengthened, and we still need to keep it high in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4016	The current financial debate on the Stortinget can be summed up quite briefly: climate, fight for the highest charges and most bans and the green shift from all possible angles, where Norway’s microscopic contribution to global greenhouse gas emissions is to be cut, no matter what it costs, and no matter what the negative consequences of such an unthought-out policy may have. The parties struggle to have as much climate gas as possible but do not focus on what it costs, or what the consequence is – either for the state or for the business community, and absolutely not for the population. Focus on energy policy, security of supply and proposals to make life easier and make everyday life more reasonable for most people, with lower taxes and taxes, only the Progress Party focuses on. Today's debate makes me worried and sad considering the future of our country when you see where the other parties want us to go. The policies they want will destroy people most, destroy Norwegian competitive advantage and do not mean anything to global greenhouse gas pits, which they claim are so busy with. Europe has already led the policy of these parties, for a time when climate policy is trottering energy policy, and the result is now: a Europe which has a major energy crisis, where there are power shortages and power grid disconnection, and where people are at risk of freezing in their hearts because of un-power prices. We already see frightening trends also in Norway, but still the other parties at Stortinget will not even reconsider the course. It seems that the other parties do not understand that the population and the business world after a long pandemic, many of which have been outsourced, unemployed and destroyed, need uplifting policies and support — not higher prices and taxes. Several batches must take the blame for the current situation in the power market. Mainly, politicians have put climate policy and profit over security of supply and reasonable, stable electricity to their own countries. Economists, blue-brews and fantasies have guided energy policy in Europe and partly in Norway. The progress party sees how wrong this wears off and works purposefully to correct the course. It is an extensive work and takes time, but we should not blindly follow an EU with a misguided energy policy. It's not acceptable. Before that time, the immediate problems are ahead of us. Today's electricity prices are devastating, and the government and the Storting must act quickly. It's not time to wait for weeks or months. We need action now. France has introduced electricity caps and provides support to low-income households, Spain repays money from power companies to the population, and several other countries have also introduced measures. Germany has, for example: limited exports from the foreign table to Norway for five years, and Sweden has recently restricted its transfer to Norway. All countries other than Norway are likely to be able to take action. Today's problem is political, and then the Storting and the government have to get on the road and come up with measures to help. The focus cannot be on swine climate policy and microscopic greenhouse gas pits when the population cannot afford food or even heat their own homes. The Norwegian big thing: Remember that you are chosen by the people – for the people!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4033	What in the world has Red spoken against Norwegian industrial workers? The working party will develop the petroleum industry and take a strong position on sea wind. Red says no to both. Maritime industry along the entire Norwegian coast is in one of its largest conversions ever. Norwegian petroleum activities will become less important over time, and if Red had been determined, this would have happened almost uncontrolled. They say no to any further search activity, including Norwegian gas. That gas does not only contribute to strong value creation and safe jobs throughout Norway, but will make a strong contribution to climate-friendly migration across Europe, with carbon capture and storage solutions. It is bad enough that Red says no to workers and the petroleum industry, but they also clearly refuse to take a leading role in what may become one of Norway's most important industrial ventures. Menon has calculated that floating sea winds can create 128 400 years' work in Norway, but not only does Red say no to the workplaces, they say no to all the electricity that Norwegian sea winds can generate. One can only imagine how high the current bills will become too common people if Red gets what they want. Organisations as different as Greenpeace and Industry Energy have shaken their heads over this anti-industrial policy from Red. The Labour Party agrees with both Greenpeace and an overall trade union movement. The working party believes that the petroleum industry needs to develop, not wind up, and we believe it is on the shoulders of the offshore industry that we are going to create new, safe jobs for ordinary people, for example. by building strong industrial environments on sea wind. That's how we take Norway in a greener and fairer direction, and that's how we create the basis for the public revenue that Red is so happy to use. The question is pressing: What in the world has Red spoken against Norwegian industrial workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4044	All of us in this room have been campaigning for months and have had many meetings with ordinary people in order to meet here tonight to adopt this budget. I myself have been around Oslo 15 cities and met engaged voters who, in a large majority, wanted a new course for the country. This was my 19th election campaign, and rarely do I remember distributing such a clear election program as I did – the 100-day schedule of the Labour Party. And today, 49 days after the government change, I can with my straight back proudly hold up the 100-day plan and say that we make election vows into reality – 40 concrete things that the Workers' Party promised to start working with within 100 days of the government change. The results are nothing less than impressive. By means of the budget adopted today by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, election vows are made into reality: For our corps at Bøler or for the sport team at Grorud, it means a lot that full VAT compensation is introduced for volunteering. Not enough of it coming from 2022, it's already happening in the current year. Those who make less than 750,000 dollars will pay less taxes next year. Those who earn the most have to pay more taxes. That's how we create a fairer Norway. The holiday allowance supplement for the unemployed and on- leave is reintroduced. Children's garden prices are being reduced. All first-class ratings throughout Norway can rejoice that from the next school year there will be free core time in the SFO. It has been a long time since we have had a similar welfare promise in Norway. We're finally starting a dental reform that targets the young and those with special needs. Low-threshold mental health care is a priority. The hospital economy is being strengthened. The trade union deduction is increased. The CO 2 tax is being increased because it is necessary to achieve the climate objectives. Children shall be given the spectacle stand again. Those who receive redundancy benefits will no longer risk ending up on social assistance because Nav has not been able to clear them up quickly enough. Prices are cut. We are strengthening the cultural budget. It is also provided for items that do not have direct budgetary relevance: The railway tendering regime has been cancelled. Work is in progress on removing general access to temporary employment. Work on the introduction of collective redress is under way. We are in the process of tightening up the use of hired labour. This is the status after 49 days, and the time doesn't allow me to go through all the points. I am already looking forward to the next election – not because it will be my 20th election campaign, but I am happy to stand and distribute running notes at T-Bahn stations and malls throughout Oslo, to tell the voters that they can trust the Workers' Party. Optionlifts have become reality. We keep what we promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4119	In the Workers' Party, we say that good growth lasts for the rest of our lives. That's why it's so incredibly important that we have a child protection that provides security and help to children and families who need it. Unfortunately, for the last eight years, we have seen a right-hand side that, at each crossroads, has used the opportunity to outsource important welfare services to private actors, whether in health, refugee reception or child protection. It helps to take money away from the service and take important resources out of the public sector. Our common well-being shall have only one priority: to provide child protection services for the benefit of children. For this reason, every single crown to child protection shall be allocated to the service and to the best interests of the children, shall not be taken out of businesses and groups as dividends to private owners. Together with an improved community economy, we are now strengthening public and ideal child protection, and we are going to start working on a quality reform that ensures that we address the challenges we face today in the field of child protection and ensure that children and families are well cared for. In addition, in the Workers' Party, we want a boost for families around our country. Unfortunately, we have a situation where 150 000 children grow up in persistent poverty, and the previous government did little to improve their situation. In our budget, we're now giving families more breathing space financially. We do that by lowering taxes for ordinary people, introducing free SFOs for first-class ratings, good lending schemes for sports and leisure equipment, for example. through BUA, and full VAT compensation for voluntary associations and organisations, which will help lower the threshold for participation in sport and culture. In our country, there are many different people living in different life situations and phases. In the Workers' Party, we are clear: the community must always stand up, regardless – both when life is fine and easy, and also when life is bad and difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4130	The education system, as it works today, is involved in reproducing social differences in our society. Young people from families and communities with a small tradition of higher education take less such education than those who have received the culture of education from home. If parents have long education and bookshelves with books, children are likely to take higher education considerably. There are also clear geographical differences: new SSB numbers show that 22.3 pst. the population of Oslo has what is considered to be longer higher education, i.e. more than four years. Oslo is cutting that statistics the most, while my own state, the Inland, is cutting the worst. Here and in More and Romesdal, this only applies to 6.1 pst. Also in the case of shorter higher education, the Inland lies at the bottom of the statistics. When we look at the employees in the university and higher education sectors, these differences become even clearer. For a while ago, the Research Forum had a notice about Terje Lohndal from Lwagal, who became the country's youngest professor at the age of 27. Lohndal has a background from the working class and felt that everything was very strange to him when he began moving into the academy. He would wish that the way in there was easier for such as him. Had not his talent for language and linguistics been discovered, it is doubtful whether he had chosen this career path. Today he is a recognized language professor. Professor of Sociology Marianne Nordli Hansen points out that the working class is more than 30 pst. of the population, while only 7 pst. of the doctoral candidates have such a background. About 78 pst. has a background from the upper class or upper middle class. She says, ‘There are very stable and large social differences. It is clear that the education system is not an egalitarian system.’ The Workers' Party will create a society with less differences. When education policy is on the agenda, it is important that we also take the debate on the class background and facilitate social mobility. Of course, educational institutions need to meet students from different backgrounds in an inclusive way, but this is also about geographical differences, where the distance from teaching places can be decisive for which choices are made at a crucial stage. Therefore, we believe it is important to facilitate much better decentralised education. In this way, we can contribute to an educational culture throughout the country – not just in the big cities. At the same time, we will meet the needs for skills both in business and in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4146	We're going to get more jobs, create activity across the country, increase exports and cut greenhouse gas emissions by 55 pst. We're facing major challenges, even without a pandemic and high power prices. The Norwegian society is the most digitised in the world, and the population has a high level of digital competence. Nevertheless, the need for increased digitisation is great. Broadband must become a right and accessible to all. It gives equal opportunities throughout the country. Broadband must be our foremost weapon against centralization. We need more ICT skills to meet society's needs, especially in terms of data security, and we need an ongoing education and training reform and increasingly ICT knowledge in all professions and in all areas of society. Large amounts of data are unused in e.g. the construction industry. Facilitating the digital success of businesses will take a strong step towards sustainable development. This does not only require the engine park to be electrified by 2030. It must be the total emission that counts, and requirements for innovation and re-use of data must be part of the criteria in tenders. We're going to depend on the entrepreneurial industry joining us to achieve our goal of 55 pst. reduction of emissions up to 2030. Technology will be essential to succeeding in the major challenges facing society. This applies both to the development of the public sector, to the development of existing industries and to the creation of new industries to address climate challenges. Focusing on technology and skills is also a prerequisite for securing future jobs. We are at full speed into a crisis of competence, and without being able to exploit resources and train more, the result will be poorer community services and lower productivity. If we are to do this, the state must contribute more. We need an active state of ambition. This is not solved by market forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4159	Tonight we take Norway in a new and fairer direction. It's a historic green and fair budget we've been presenting. We reduce differences, strengthen well-being and cut greenhouse gas emissions. The voters gave clear notice that they wanted a change in course. Today we deliver the beginning of that change of course. Ordinary people will notice that we are strengthening well-being. Municipalities and counties get a real growth of 4.5 billion. kr in free income. It means more in welfare throughout the country. In addition, there will be free core time in the SFO for first-class students, and we will start a dental reform that targets young people and those with special needs. Ordinary people will notice that we are increasing the allocation of labour market measures, creating thousands more action sites and about 250 more VTA sites. Hubs are reinforced by 100 million. kr, and there is room for closer follow-up of persons without work. This is a budget that gets more people to work. It's good for the individual and for society. For the Workers' Party, the individual's ability to get a job and to support himself and his family is the most important objective of integration policy. Work is the key to the rest, and the way to work is through education and qualification. If we're going to get more people to work, early work is crucial. Therefore, it is so important that we cut the maximum price in kindergartens at NOK 2 915 per year and introduce free core time into the SFO for the first class. And what does early work and qualification mean? Politics works. The Stoltenberg government started its trial of free core time in kindergartens in selected Oslo urban areas as early as 2006, and researchers have now followed these children over time and found more positive results once the students have now taken national 8th stage tests. These students have actually achieved better mastery in the national reading test. Children in low-income families, where mother does not work, seem to have had the greatest benefit from free core time, in both the reading and calculating skills of the 8th stage exams, and the boys have had the greatest benefit in reading. Politics works. Just look at what we got into the City Council in Oslo. In recent years, students in Oslo have improved their qualifications both in secondary and secondary education. Several young people apply for vocational training, and several students complete and pass the school cycle. These are results that speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4176	Today we are going to adopt a budget that gives a completely different course for our country, a course that reduces social and geographical differences. We get a budget to enable all citizens to have access to good public services close to where they live, and we start a comprehensive operation to reverse centralisation. In the additional number, we increase the free income of the local government sector by 2.5 billion. SEK – 2 billion. kr to the municipalities and NOK 0,5 billion. kr to the counties – and in the budgetary agreement with SV further strengthens the local government sector. Overall, there is an increase of approx. 3.5 B.C.E. kr in addition to the proposals of the Solberg Government. This is a lot of money, but it is essential for municipalities to be able to provide good services to the population, to strengthen kindergarten, school, care for the elderly and health. The starting point was frightened and gave municipalities zero room for action to work on business development or to further develop their services. In particular, small and medium-sized municipalities have been starved for many years. Skeletal distribution needs to be corrected over the year, but this is a good start. 300 million proposed cut by the Solberg Government. kr of the grant for resource-intensive services is reversed. This is an area we need to have a careful review of. In the last eight years, an increasing proportion of these expenditures have been shifted to municipalities, and this has given them major challenges. In smaller municipalities in particular, where the need varies considerably from year to year, this often accounts for a large proportion of the municipal budget. The basic grant of SEK 500,000 per primary municipal school will give municipalities incentives to invest in a decentralised school structure and ensure a good school offer close to where they live. The most obvious change in course is in district policy. The Hurdal platform states that centralisation must be stopped. District policy permeates policy in all areas, and it has also made a clear mark on the budget. Where the Solberg government halved its efforts in eight years in terms of regional and regional policy measures, we estimate. Among other things, money is allocated to the development of rural growth agreements. Here the municipalities must define the need and it may be different from region to region. Building growth agreements shall be fully rolled into the next budget. Otherwise, there are regional policy implications in everything we do. There are increased commuter deductions, broadband, police, racial protection, cheaper ferries, etc. This is a budget that prepares Norway for the future, which stimulates business development and housing throughout the country. Eight years of centralisation is not reversed in any weeks, but this budget is a new course for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4194	The slogan that now is the turn of ordinary people, almost starting to become a parody, because while ordinary people are struggling to pay the electricity bill, there's a party in the Ministry of Finance because the state makes billions on the high electricity price. On the table today there are concrete proposals that will remedy the situation immediately for most people. The progress party proposes to give a cash payment of NOK 4000 to each household, to help pay the electricity bill. The government answers by saying that they will do something soon – perhaps, in the future. The Central Party's response to what to do to pay for the high power prices is to refer to eight-year-old newspaper reviews with former oil and energy ministers, as if it helps the population pay the electricity bill. It doesn't help ordinary people to die. In the Advance Party's alternative state budget, we refuse to spend billions of dollars on symbolic climate action and help without effect. Norway has a state budget of 1,500 billion. kr. The lead party will give priority to the most important one. We want to increase pensions for those who have built the country. We want to increase the hospital budgets. We want to keep state-funded care for the elderly because it works, and because the users and the municipalities want it. We want to expand more road and infrastructure. In my constituency, West Agder, we will repair the sheltered Bakke bridge. We want to secure the Haukom Mountain in Sirdal. We want to give more money to Nye Veier AS so that the E39 between Kristiansand and Stavanger can be developed faster. We will provide more money for labour market measures, including: Two million. kr to Hopeful in Kristiansand, who is doing a great job of getting young people who are struggling out of work. All of this matches the red-green parts. Six months ago, the Progress Party doubled the Offshore Ship Decommissioning Scheme to ensure employment and activity in Norwegian shipyards and recycling companies across the coast. The Workers' Party-Center Party government is winding up the scheme and sends hundreds of industrial workplaces into uncertainty as a result. Obviously, the shipyard workers along the coast are not ordinary people enough. The same is obviously not the pensioners or the power consumers, because it is not their turn this time either. Who the government defines as ordinary people has become a well-hidden secret. The inhabitants of this country deserve to know what to do urgently by the government to remedy their situation here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4207	Norway has got a new government and a new direction, and it has to be noticed by ordinary people. It's by building on the best thing in our country that we can bring people on the big social promises. Now we are giving priority to more major school and education interventions that will help people in their everyday lives, and that will equip Norway for the major challenges we face. In the budget, the maximum price in kindergartens has been cut for the first time since 2013, i.e. since the last red-green budgets. It will provide an annual savings of almost NOK 3000 for those who have one child in the kindergarten, and almost NOK 5000 for those who have two children in the kindergarten. Lowering the nursery rate is important to make the offer available to everyone and to give young children’s parents more time to walk with. At the same time, we introduce free core time into the SFO. SFO is a major cost for many families with young children. On a national basis, 100 000 young people are not participating in the SFO. The introduction of free core time is an important welfare reform that helps us to include more. For us, it is important to reduce the price, but also to look at the quality, because there is great variation between municipalities in how they implement the SFO, how they organise, what the content is, and what the skills of employees are. That is why we are strengthening the potential for empowerment for employees, to improve the quality of the children in the SFO. We have heard that the time for the great enlargements in our common well-being is over. This was probably a truth that helped finely under the previous government, but the budget that the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV stand together, shows that it doesn't have to be like that. We need to bet on a strong common school where all students can master and thrive in teams. School is an important arena to balance differences, and to build trust in a society. It is of great value that children with different backgrounds learn together, and for that we build a community, and we build the differences. It creates trust, and it gives everyone equal opportunities. There are several large, unsolved tasks left after Right & Co. One of these problems is the lack of teachers. We have to train more new teachers. We have to make it possible to learn the entire professional life, and we have to bring back all those who have left the profession. We've already started this job. We have stopped the separation of skilled teachers who have a lot to contribute, and we have removed a rigid four-claim that stopped young people who had a dream of becoming teachers. Over the next four years, we're going to do a lot more, but we're already going. All of this we have delivered in just a few months, and a new government is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4226	I want to tell you about an experience that I had a while back. I was a proud member of LO's apprentice patrol. I got to travel around and meet young people who had their first years of working life as proud apprentices. But it wasn't all the experiences I got there that gave me a good feeling in my stomach. I think especially one meeting well. I was at a nursing home in a municipality not so far from where I live, and met one who had an incredibly great joy for the work she was doing. She had simply always dreamed of working with the elderly, sharing the care she had in her heart, with other people. What was real to her was that she not only received poor follow-up when she was going to join as an apprentice, but that they were so understaffed that in some cases she had to lie to the elderly about what the time was – that it was bedtime, and that the wait that she would otherwise give, and the conversations that she would like to have, were not possible to make. They were so thinly manned. The feeling that I knew when I heard history and she broke out in tears says something about the realities of a strangled community economy. It's not just numbers, figures and statistics. It's about man, about care, about the ability to care. This is precisely why I am so unlikely to be happy that we have finally received a government that takes this seriously – 4 500 million. kr more for the local economy. It has something to say to our people who are going to deliver the services in their care, to have it liberal enough to let go every hour, and to get it liberal enough to take those conversations and do more than just care and medicine. That's what's really going on. This government is now on its 49th day, and we deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4237	Now this government has to show that they can deliver. On the same day that we are discussing the budget for next year, the Minister of Finance announces that a new crisis package will come to the Stortinget as early as January because of the measures against the corona pandemic announced today. Bringing new measures to the Storting in January is enough for public transport. It needs to be strengthened. That's not enough, what has been done by the government parties and SV where we are now. It may be time enough for the train companies that don't get any compensation as it is now, but that must get it when we get out in the spring. It is not enough and time enough for all employees in the outdoor industry, all those who are left in a situation where they will be met with leave, and it will come quickly. First, what the Minister of Finance has to do is: luckily, the blue-green majority last year revised a reserve pot to the scheme via the municipalities of 500 million. kr. That's 200 million. kr. They must exit via the municipalities immediately. That authority has the government. That case does not have to come back to Stortinget. Second, we have to learn from what we did last year. Then the blue-green majority granted 250 million. kr from the ejaculation directly to the municipalities to the outdoors. It worked. It was delivered within two weeks, and it worked. We need to do that this year too. Thirdly, the period for which the enterprises will pay will start to run already this weekend for the first leave. I see NHO alerts that they will have a reduction from ten to five days. The solution is the NHO itself with the LO, because this is part of the main agreement, and the LO and NHO must agree to extend the interruption period, i.e. the period during which a company can reinstate and hire a permit without risking a new employer's period of leave. It was extended in the spring of September. Now it has to be revalidated. This must be done by LO and NHO tomorrow December 3rd, otherwise the employer period will start running for employees already this weekend. Employees in the outdoor industry also have to pay electricity bills, and they have to celebrate Christmas. What the government has to do is to give a guarantee immediately that such a change of rules does not affect the right to daily allowances. The three things the Minister of Finance has to do. It has to be notified tomorrow, and it has to be done tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4256	Traffic and investment in public infrastructure will be crucial for how Norway, as a nation, will cope with the transition we face. Even without the help of the government to weaken the attractiveness of the Norwegian capital, the investments, the activity and, more importantly, the revenues from the oil industry will fall. There's a lot of suggestions for what we're going to live on after the oil, but no matter what, we're going to be more than ever dependent on having a good and efficient public infrastructure. The new government is failing in many of these areas. It is cut in national road investments, the framework conditions for the maritime sector are weakened, and for aviation – which is at the bottom of its back – reintroduces a passenger charge, increases VAT and increases CO 2 tax. It's a handshake in these times. In addition, a higher threshold for the construction of a quadruple road must be introduced and rail competition removed. Obviously, tomorrow's challenges are not to be solved, but one should reintroduce yesterday's problems. We are totally dependent on being able to provide stable, predictable and effective framework conditions for our business to succeed. The Progress Party will be investing on the coast and on freight by sea, we will ensure a good flight offer across the country, and we will give priority to maintenance on the rail that stops the lag. But perhaps most importantly, we're going to build better and safer roads. Since 2013, the Progress Party has almost doubled the allocations to roads. Through the draft budget of the Progress Party, we build the country, and we bind Norway together. While prioritizing the development of a tribal network between the regions and the major cities, we cut out tolls as a source of financing for road construction. When the Progress Party builds roads, we build roads for them to be used. And as anyone who has a calculator can verify for themselves, it's the use of the project that's the difference between a socio-economically profitable project and one that's not. Finally, I want to express my disappointment at the government's weakening of the maritime sector and the net pay system. Fine words about freight and green shipping will help little if we fail to recruit and care for the Norwegian sailor and wife. It's very sad that the three parties that are now the majority of the next year's government budget are the same three parties that in the election campaign promised to strengthen the net pay system expensively and sacredly, and that are now failing a whole industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4272	Some of the dynamics of the financial debate are the contradictions between the lots, where the opposition criticises the position and the opposite. However, I would like to start by saying that I am happy to live in a country where, after all, we have a great degree of stability, regardless of who has run. It is a strength for Norway and provides security for both people and businesses. But then there are political differences between us – fortunately, because that is what is a democracy. For the Workers' Party, it is essential to strengthen the safety net provided by the Community. That is why I am very happy that we are now ensuring the security of income for those who are not clear on the AAP in time, that we stop the abbreviation from the first crown for disability, and that there is now vacation money for those who have gone unemployed. But I also want to point out that we are now looking at the beginning of a dental bet. While the previous government has tightened up in several areas in this field, we now have a significant expansion for young adults, for children and young people who need dental regulation, a strengthening of public dental services and not least a strong commitment to schemes for those with severe dental anxiety, such as people who have suffered torture or abuse. It is unworthy when some in this group have had to go up to four years in order to receive the necessary dental treatment. Earlier in this debate, the right has been attacked by the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre Party to extend the universal arrangements, whether in terms of child care prices or free time in the SFO for first-class ratings. But I do not see the Right introduce a specialty to have children in public school or self-payment for hospital stays for those with good finances – fortunately. And I think that must be a sign that the development of universal welfare systems has been quite successful. So the Workers' Party's answer is that they with the strongest back can rather pay a little extra over the tax slip. We now also have a significant strengthening of the municipalities, perhaps not so tense for the former government parties. A representative from the previous government was challenged before today on their cut to users with high resource needs and thought it was not that dangerous, because it was just the municipality it went beyond. But the municipality is all of us who live there. It's about what kind of services you get in organized services, or drugs, mental health protection or school. In the state budget, we're now picking up about 320 billion. kr based on revenue from the oil and gas industries. It shows how closely the words «sheep» and «parts» are connected, and there should be a cross of thought for those parties who want to turn off the lights in the North Sea while they like to use every single penny in the state budget without turning a blind eye. Then, of course, it's not enough, what's in the budget tonight. The policy has been put together in such a way that one will never be finished. But this is a good jump in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4287	In today's budget there are many important written proposals that do not directly affect the state budget for 2022 but that show a new course. Two of them relate to food production from Norwegian agriculture. The first is to ‘present an obligatory and temporal plan during 2022 to close the income gap between farmers and other groups in society. The revenue gap shall be dense irrespective of the size of use, production and part of the country’. The second is to ‘ensure that investment vehicles contribute to the realisation of the unbundling requirement for small and medium-sized uses’. This is very progressive. These proposals must be seen in the context of the Hurdal platform, which states: ‘Prepare and implement a stepping-up plan for safe food production on Norwegian resources and set a 50 per cent self-sufficiency target for Norwegian agricultural food, corrected for imports of feed raw materials.’ At the last big time, a decision was made with all parties, except the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, that we should have at least 50 pst. maritime supply of agricultural food by 2026. This is now to be realized, equalise all the demands we also have to fulfil in a serious working life. What is the social task of agriculture is food preparedness/seal supply. Agriculture must provide enough food – bread, milk, fruit, vegetables and meat. In addition, we have to have fish. To this end, the income of the holder is an instrument. The income of the holder is not the objective; it is an instrument to ensure the social objective. The historical problem with this in terms of income adjustment between agriculture and other groups is overproduction. Overproduction generates falling market prices and is destructive to the stockpiling of income. Then we have to remember that Norway does not receive overproduction on its own agricultural land. Overproduction is the result of overimports. The elephant in the room is the import of grain and soya. That's why we have the old slogan for the Norwegian League to build agriculture on plough feathers and not ship smelting. What's important then is that we get a new rate where it's more profitable to grow larger areas in Norway and more expensive to import soya and cereals from abroad. What we can do is start with an increased levy on soybean from Brazil – with a major change, which requires better import protection under WTO legislation, of which Norway is part, we can introduce the best customs protection of crowns and customs duties. The new foreign minister has given promising signals on that point. We can start by upgrading agricultural land in Norway, rehabilitating the land in Storfjord and Hamarøy, getting new technologies to make it attractive in the agricultural buildings, to follow up the second point, on the unemployment requirement for small and medium-sized livestock farms.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4300	It is with great concern and concern that we in the Workers' Party see that electricity prices are increasing dramatically. Yes, we are used to electricity prices fluctuating, and in periods of low rainfall and cold winters we have had to cover ourselves on high electricity bills. But what we see now is far beyond what I can remember in the 30 years I have had to pay my own electricity bills – NOK 3–4 per kWh and NOK 30 to take a shower, and where families in simple two-man homes have to pay for increased electricity costs in January, from initially NOK 3000 to NOK 10 000. You can't handle those power bills over time. That's why we have to find good solutions in the short term for the pensioners, lonely and families who are now unable to get the wheels around. But in the longer term, we need to facilitate greater power generation in the form of building more our own green, renewable energy, and we need to put in place a grid that can transport the electricity more efficiently around the country, so that we do not get high prices in one part of the country and low prices in another. This is what the government is working on, and it will solve many of the challenges people face today. As a new representative on the Stortinget, it is in a well-trunneric language that I should like to hear from the Progress Party in this debate. They have, of course, had a hand on the steering wheel in the past eight years, and unfortunately this has not been done quickly enough by the previous government. This is not an explanation, it is a reality that must be placed. We're approaching Christmas, and the most important thing now is what we do in the short term. Here all the stones have to be turned around, all the recordings are being evaluated, and not least there has to be a pace of work, which I am sure it is. No one in Norway will have to freeze through Christmas or winter. In the budget, there are many good measures that redistribute our common resources – more to those who need it the most, and less to those who need it the least. The local economy is considerably strengthened, and much more money is now being allocated to action. The local economy can now help those with acute problems in managing the current billing now in winter. Then we have to make sure that anyone who can do energy-saving measures by replacing old technology with new technology. There is a lot to save for those who choose to replace old panel ovens with heat pump. However, it can be an expensive investment for many, in which case we, as a welfare state, must ensure that everyone is given this opportunity through targeted, strengthened and enhanced measures. It's good for the individual, but it's also good for society in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4315	The most important issue in the 2020s for this magnification and for all the parliaments of the world is going to be the climate issue. This is the decade when we're going to solve the greatest challenge humanity has. Where our previous prime minister, Erna Solberg, learned what it was like to be prime minister in a government where she said it's tough to stand up for the climate in a government where people aren't so busy about it, our new prime minister does not want to be in the same situation. There he's got the whole team, which gives results from day one. We see the result today: we have received the greenest budget in Norwegian history. We deliver what we promised in the election campaign: a fair climate policy that cuts emissions and creates jobs. We see what kind of opportunities this gives Norwegian business. We've got a new Minister of Economic Affairs who's talking about this on the inside and out. As the manager, he went ahead to take responsibility for the climate and nature of his business. Now he's going to do the same for all of Norway. Where the previous government spent seven and a half years presenting a climate report, our government has given results from day one. When we're going to discuss the state budget next year, we're also going to present a climate budget that shows how we're going to achieve our very ambitious goal of cutting 55 pst. of Norwegian emissions. Where the previous government led a climate policy that led to a break in the climate agreement for 2020, we must achieve the goal. We have to make it easy for people to live environmentally friendly. We will therefore work to increase support for public transport so that more people can travel by train, bus, boat and track. But if you're going by bus, the bus has to go, and because of the pandemic, public transport is in a very difficult situation. Where I live, in Akershus, Viken, Ruter is now in a very serious situation. Without additional help, one would risk cutting one third of the offer. The bus had stopped going at noon. 20 and on the weekends. I am at least very happy that the budget today is 500 million. kr in emergency aid to the public limited liability companies. It gives us more time to secure public transport and know more about what will be the new normal. While the debate has been going on in the hall today, people in my part of the country have been told to come back to their homes to prevent the infection. It underlines how important it is, what we are doing today. Today, I would like to thank the County Council with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party in Viken and the Red-Green City Council in Oslo for the incredibly important job they have done to ensure that the bus goes back to normal, and that the Stortinget is with them today and gives them the necessary support.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4326	Education policy is one of the most important tools we have to achieve the goal of bringing the differences between people down and using the whole country. Here the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV provides a good basis. The growth cycle affects us all. It is the hub of many communities throughout Norway, and this is where we have the opportunity to give all children and young people the tools they need to move on in life. I note that more representatives from the Right and the Left, both in the debate today and in the media over the last few weeks, are spreading concern that this is a new direction of education policy. The representatives of the Right and the Left are quite right that we should have a new direction of education policy, because there is a great need for that. We need a direction that supports the goal of getting more people through school. Here we know that it's the students who aren't the strongest theoretical students who often fall through. They need more practical instruction adapted to their needs. That is why we strengthen the practical-esthetic subjects in continuing training and do not introduce the extra hour in the natural sciences. At the same time, we're going to make sure that the way to get a place to learn is getting shorter. Then we need a direction that focuses on more qualified teachers in school. That's why we're re-establishing teacher training at Nesna, as a clear signal, and that's why we're removing the four-digit requirement in math. Because it's not like that, it can't be like that, that how good you were to derivative a power when you were 16, you have to decide whether you can become a Norwegian teacher or not. In this budget we also lower the maximum prices in kindergartens and introduce free core time into the SFO for 1st class. It is also a new direction to ensure that everyone is able to participate in the offer regardless of the family economy. In particular, we ensure a new direction of education policy, where you should have equal rights to a good education offer regardless of where you live. We strengthen the work of decentralised education, ensure the principle of secondary education in several counties and increase the grant of outpatients for all those students who have to leave to go to higher education. This is combined with 2.5 billion. extra NOK 500000 in grants to municipalities per primary school. This is how we strengthen the space for action of the municipalities and at the same time ensure that they do not have to set up secondary schools on the basis of a tight community economy. You ask me, this is a good signal for education policy in the next few years. It's the beginning of a job to get even more people through school, more teachers in Norwegian classrooms, and to have equal opportunities regardless of how much your parents earn and where you grow up. After eight years with a government that has centralized and made the differences between people bigger, there are few things in education policy that are more important than doing exactly that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4340	I understand that the Councils of State have some sort of watch regime in which they roll over who sits here and listens to the debate. Most of them take the floor, but I have registered that the Minister of Oil and Energy has signed up. That's what I think is very happy, because then I hope we can get a clarification of what proposal No. 284 means, where one should return to the Storting with possible measures, one should look at measures. I wonder what in the decision they intend to make today, which is different from what the oil and energy minister has said to TV 2, NTB, NRK, VG and Dagbladet in the last few days. Isn't that exactly the same oil and energy minister that said? If there's a chance to get some more measures and get a little information on what's at the back, I would appreciate it. Is it e.g. cash payments to all those behind? Is it for single groups? Is that supposed to be targeted? Could it be the minimum pensioners now can expect to get something? Is it perhaps targeted at the students? Can the farmers, who now have expensive power bills, expect something extra? Or should it be a need - tested system? It would have been very good to know if this is something the government parties and SV have planned to come before Christmas, or if there is a payment to come in the new year. I also wonder how it is thought to be solved. We know that the previous raise decided to give the minimum pensioners an extra NOK 5000, I think, but because Nav didn't have the systems in order, it took almost five months to get it in place. Can the Minister of Oil and Energy be clear and say that at least it will not take five months to make a cash payment, if that is what the government parties have planned? When the oil and energy minister comes up here, I also hope I can get a comment on the representative Lightbakken said earlier today, in the line change. When I challenged the Lighthouse, I asked if he was satisfied with the victory at a stop in the concession rounds and increased the CO 2 charge for the oil industry, or if this was just the beginning. The light tank confirmed that this was just the beginning, now he was going to get started and get more years after year. I hope that the oil and energy minister or some of the other representatives from the Workers' Party or the Centre can come up to this pulpit today, look into the camera and tell the oil workers who depend on their jobs that there is no danger that the jobs can go with the majority that is now, when SV is now going to hunt new oil winches in the years that are coming. I hope some of them can come up here and say to the Lightbox: What you got now, was here, but no longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4354	It's I'm a little bit of a emptiness the new government takes over, if you're going to believe this debate. I have to admit that even though it is a bit nice to hear new representatives proudly speak out to the new government and its policy – I believe so – it happens by talking others down. I would like to remind you that Norway is constantly topping the lists of the world's best countries to live and live in, including in the last eight years. Sustained governance through the oil crisis in 2014 and the migration crisis in 2015 – with a shift towards new growth in the economy and new jobs – also caused the Solberg government to be re-elected because the policy worked. You shouldn't believe it when we hear the reality descriptions here, and now it's going in a new direction. It's almost as you hear the torches turned off, the forks are put away and the protest bases are unpacked. Yes, those who have stood with lua hand can now put it on, and well it is. Because even here in the main hall, it's called, and it's not just the presence of right-wing people who take care of it. It's a little dangerous to add to such a polarizing tone right now, because some people remember that the AAP receivers didn't get the fast and tight follow-up they were promised, under the red-green. The scheme was also called a treadmill out of work and into a permanent outside closet. When the red-greens talk about unsocial cuts, I also dare say that the most unsocial we can do is look at schemes that don't work, without doing anything. A new direction for the country cannot be full stagnation or reversal of necessary changes. Giving more money is no solution for lasting lifting those who need it the most, if the money is lubricated outwards. When the maximum price in kindergarten is reduced for ordinary people, it is great, but 40,000 low-income families already get well below the maximum price, pay less and are not taken from it at all. The same applies to the boasting of a historical reduction in the electricity charge to all. It gives a lot to those who consume the most – at least to those who already save where they can. This is one of the divisions of Norwegian policy – we who not only distribute among ordinary people but target those who need it the most. I also recall that it was the two government parties that pointed out the possibility of the greatest social reform in recent times: the drug reform. A new direction could be to implement this. There is no void of fire for the new government to come. In fact, Norway is well equipped to meet the challenges many describe here, and get out of the pandemic with a robust economy. This is due to eight years of steady management through several crises. I wish the new government well. I do, because I want good for Norway and everyone who lives here. I want the reforms to be successful. But we can also slow down the pace of this debate a little bit and try to relate to reality as it is. This is a good country to live in for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4373	It has been interesting to follow the debate over the past twelve hours. As the representative Bruflot so pointed out: you should almost think there is still a campaign in this room. In turn, representatives of the government parties have come up here and told us about everything that is going to be so much better with the budget that has now been presented. But no one mentions what this budget unit has cost, and how it got in place. The use of exceptional income from the surplus of Statkraft — which was due to the high electricity prices — has been central to achieving this consensus. These are the same high prices as many in this Chamber have criticised and resented in the current debate; these are the revenues that are now being used to create a budgetary union. These revenues were not used to reduce the electricity bill of the so-called ordinary people initially, no this money was used to impose permanent expenditure on the government budget. In other words, the government budget is charged on a continuous basis with what, hopefully, is a one-off income. If the current government does not expect to receive these revenues annually in the future government budgets, they must cover this with other revenues, i.e. either tax revenue or increased use of oil money. So these are expenditures that are going to be charged to future generations. The Minister of Finance could proudly tell that the oil fund contributes NOK 60000 per capita to this budget. That's about. 9.5 pst. GDP. But what the Council of State did not mention is what is at the bottom of page seven of the State budget. It is written that the use of oil money in the year’s budget is significantly higher than in the period preceding the pandemic. Then we spent NOK 50000 per capita, approx. 7.7 pst. GDP. Furthermore, it is written that we cannot expect the oil fund to grow at the same rate in the years that are coming, and that we must reduce the use of oil well under the rule of action, i.e. 3 pst. This means that the current government has to find the money to finance the permanent expenditure on the state budget, elsewhere than in the oil fund. And on the basis of the rhetoric shown in this Chamber during the debate that is now taking place, private business will be excluded. They are subject to high taxes, especially if they are profitable. It is the creators who are to be charged the cost of the budgetary unit. It is only Norwegian-owned enterprises and Norwegian-owned business. Several speakers have been busy with ordinary people, and let me point out that the common people work in the business that is to be taxed, the business that is to be deprived of the ability to create new jobs. It's jobs in the districts we're talking about, and it's business that's doing the most important inclusion work. And if we want to create lasting social cohesion, people have to work, and then we're totally dependent on business. The policies outlined by this government are most likely to contribute to depleting business, which we rely on to ensure inclusion in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4382	During this debate I have learned something new. Firstly, there is no way of how terrible it has been to live in Norway in the last eight years. Who would think it was in the best, richest and most like-minded country in the world? Secondly, it seems that only parties on the left have a monopoly on defining what is unsocial or not. The times that the right has prioritised pointed welfare schemes, so that they actually hit those who need it, better, or strengthened the working line, it's unsocial. But when the government cuts the holiday card for children in low - income families, it's okay. To cut $15 million. This can be done in the springhouses – working community for people with mental challenges. I don't think it's unsocial to cut 662 million. in education for girls in poor countries after a pandemic, although we know that it is one of the most important measures to prevent girls from being married as children. Natural science is one of the subjects where the parents' education level has the most to say about how a student is doing at school, but it's certainly not unsocial to cut the extra natural education in the school that Right gave up. It is certainly not unsocial to cut off the extra support for schools that have been hard hit by the pandemic and that have many students who are following. It is certainly not unsocial to remove the requirement that all students meet teachers who have depression in the subjects in which they teach. It is certainly not unsocial to vote in favour of a budget agreement which requires families with less than 400000 DKK of income to pay more in taxes than they would have done with the Right's draft budget. It's probably quite within the framework of voting against a drug reform, and the free treatment option – which has saved lives – can cut the left side with a good conscience, because it's all about ideology after all. Government parties are good at writing about history today, but there are some chapters they have forgotten. With the right in government, over 40,000 low-income families have been given free core time in kindergarten. Three times as many families have received support for holidays and leisure activities. We increased child welfare for the first time in 20 years, we increased housing support and more than doubled the one-time benefit for newly-baked parents with low income. We expanded and improved the care allowance system and got more than 4,500 more qualified teachers, over 47 000 teachers were offered further education, record highs are completing secondary school, and waiting times for mental health and drug treatment went down. We introduced 28 packaging pathways for cancer. This isn't unsocial cut in my eyes, but what do I know – now, after all, I don't represent a party on the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4393	Towards the end of such a marathon debate, which of course has clear elements of ritual exercises, one can also take note with interest of the tone set in this hall from the new majority. In this majority, the parties to the government, which are part of a minority government, have chosen to cooperate on this occasion with parties on the left. It's going to be exciting to see how far you're going to get with such a division, confrontation and polarization that lies in many of these rhetorical outcomes we've got during this day. Something might have to be attributed to the fact that some of the representatives are new, so they actually believe that the world is still like the speech points they used during the election campaign. But I must also reflect that part of this assembly has a relatively theoretical relationship with work and business because they have not been there. You could at best say that they accept it, but you don't know exactly how it works. We've got a siren speech today from distributional orientation and very little about value creation. This government and this majority do not promise well, because what the welfare state actually relies on is profits from economic activity in privately owned enterprises. For it is not the politicians who generate the money by granting it. If you go through the inserts, you'd think it was the way the batches had their own banknote presses. But they take the money out there, which is made by strenuous people, for their own purposes. I also have to say that the review earlier today, where the Workers' Party's fiscal spokesman thought it was very interesting that you should now also start including withheld deposits in the dispute, while at the same time being very proud to have increased the wealth tax and increased the dividend tax. This is, of course, a retained surplus that is just back and creates a solid enterprise, which will also have greater profitability in wage and salary settlements. While with this majority, it seems that the ultimate goal of economic activity must be to make the state as large and strong as possible, so that we finally all become employed there. This does not promise good for Value Creation Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4402	The representative Ask Hill from the Workers' Party swung to the slightly large rhetorical heights and quoted Prime Minister Tage Erlander. He has once said that the policy's task is to build the dance floor, so that the people could dance their lives. But the representative Ask Bakke might have grasped another statement from the same day Erlander: we have to work out of the crisis, we can't decide out of the crisis. There is a deep recognition of the importance of work and the importance of workplaces. The option is unemployment. There is alarmingly little involvement from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV – not to talk about the fiery cluster sea on their left – in terms of jobs and job creation. The melody here in the hall is well-being, more well-being, preferably lubricating thinly. The government of Støre comes to the covered table, but the government of Støre will meet some challenges at the next corner, and those challenges are directly described in the perspective message, as this hall, primarily the position, might have read before entering the debate. The action space in the state budgets is moving towards zero towards 2030. This means — in good Norwegian — that the growth of expenditure is greater than the growth of income. What do you do in such a situation? When the Solberg government put the necessary reforms on the agenda, which it is quite clear that you have to go through no matter who is in power, it was caricatured as ‘centralisation’. Looking at a certain degree of grading of welfare schemes, it is caricatured as ‘ussocial cuts’. The problem with welfare systems if they become too general is that they are incredibly expensive to improve. In this way, child welfare is a very good example. It stood still for 23 years before the government of Solberg raised child welfare in 2019. The danger of such arrangements is that they will not, in the long term, meet those for which they are intended. Then I have to say in the end: I listened with interest to the posts of the representative Jacobsen. Already now he is looking forward to standing by in 2025 and was going to tell about everything he has got, and he ended up listening to them keeping their promises. No, the representative Jacobsen, you don't, you've already broken a very important promise from the Workers' Party – at least it should be important. So it is people who earn less than NOK 750,000, who are now receiving tax increases, who are in violation of the Workers' Party's tax guarantee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4413	The representative Tetzschner is concerned with tone and value creation. To take the tone of the debate first: I would encourage Tetzschner to take a round with his own party on the rhetoric of the coronary apathy. And in the matter of value creation, I can comfort both Tetzschner and the representative of Riveres that the rest of the post is going to be about that. The state budget under discussion today is the greenest and fairest budget Norway has seen in eight years. The Labour Party delivers on the mandate the voters gave us now in the autumn – when we take action to speed up the green transition and facilitate companies to create new, safe jobs throughout the country. That is what we get at the same time as we cut greenhouse gas emissions and straighten out for eight unfair years under the Right and the Progress Party with unsocial cuts to the weakest and gift packages for the richest. During the same period, Norway has systematically slowed down in relation to all our trading partners in mainland exports. Norway needs greater ambitions and stronger instruments in business policy than we have had with the Right and the Advance Party. We in the Workers' Party have opted to increase mainland exports by 50 pst. for nine years and take a leading position in building strong value chains based on hydrogen, and now we set the pace for next year's state budget by strengthening the hydrogen content of 120 million. kr. And then we're going to add 40 million. SEK to Siva in the development of nutrition throughout the country and SEK 50 million. kr to a green shipping borrowing scheme. On top of that, we are going to compensate the county municipalities for the realization of zero-emission ferries, and we are asking the government to plan for a large-scale green hydrogen production in Norway. We can be world leaders in creating a new industrial adventure, while helping the world cut emissions. The right-hand side leaves business to itself. We in the Workers' Party have a different vision. We believe that an active state can be a partner and support for business. We will take the challenges facing industry, seriously and use the instrument in Norway to speed up the transition, create new industrial adventures and create good, regular jobs throughout Norway. For now is the turn of ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4426	In the funeral of former Prime Minister Odvar Nordli there was a good friend of Odvar who told something very interesting, which I have been inspired by. He said that Odvar Nordli had had as a delivery gel that as a popular choice you should be the voice of those who otherwise don't seem or hear – not the microphone stand for those who want to shine and show up anyway. I think the big problems we've experienced in recent years, first with the shutting down of society with the background of the virus and now the power crisis we're experiencing, can show that over a long time in Norway we've actually forgotten a little about the attitudes Odvar Nordli had. Because what was very interesting about the shutting down of our society was that it appeared to the public and in Norwegian debate that many very basic jobs in Norway depend on the fact that we have enough workers, which we may not have been good enough to see. It is often said at seminars that young people do not have summer jobs, and that they do not have part-time jobs, because jobs are digitised away. It turned out to be a truth with very great modifications as we lacked people to plant forests, take up vegetables and do absolutely fundamental and decisive work for our everyone's safety. Now there have been some interesting articles here about having a good tone in the debate and dealing with reality as it is, as Heidi Nordby Lunde said. One thing that reality is going to show us in the next few years is that we're missing something as basic as truck drivers. In Europe, it is estimated that 400,000 truck drivers are missing overall, and we will lack many in Norway as well. The reason for this is, among other things, the existence of too weak an employment policy, inadequate recruitment towards essential occupations, and, of course, many problems of social dumping. We see the same problems in many industrial companies, and I get a little bit of thinking when right-wing representatives come up and say that everything has been very bad in the last few years, because it doesn't. In my own home country there are 40 pst in individual municipalities. of the pre-employment population. And the paradox is that in the same municipalities – if you travel to Hydro in Magnor, where 40 pst. of the population is out of work – recruiting people is difficult. After all, it is only possible in a country where employment policy fails and training policy fails. And that's a common responsibility we have. Then we can relate to reality as it is, and start improving the policy so that we get a better and safer society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4435	The representative, Andreas Shelg Unneland, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4440	Since 2000, 158 women have been killed by the partner or a former partner. In Norway, there has been a general decrease in the number of deaths in the last 30 years, but not in the case of partner killings. In 2020, the partner killing committee found out that in all the cases they investigated, women had been exposed to partner violence before they were killed. Partner drops do not come without warning, and much has to be done. It has been important for the Swedish Crisis Centre Secretariat to be increased, support for the special legal assistance measures strengthened by the JURK, general support for women’s organisations is lifted, support for the State Children’s House is strengthened, and support for the Incest and Rape Centres is increased. Human violence against women is a major social problem that needs to be taken seriously. As a feminist, it is important to say that we are now giving up this fight. It's a game we have to win, because something else is not an alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4447	It was an interesting and long debate, we're approaching the end, hopefully. I just want to clarify a few things. First of all, there are several members of the Central Party who have claimed that we are not following up on the supplementary agreement with agriculture. That's wrong. When the Solberg government presented its draft budget in October, it was naturally not with all the time it had not been negotiated. We have now taken that into account in our addition that has been promoted today, and in our adjustments in our own budget, so there is the exact amount needed to follow up that agreement. Then I hope that this matter is at least resolved. So electricity prices have taken a lot of attention today. I record that the Minister of Oil and Energy has signed up on the list of speakers, and I appreciate that very much, because there may certainly be a need to clarify some relationships. Among other things, the impression is that the energy policy that has been in place in recent years may have had an impact on the situation we are now facing, which I experience as extraordinary, and which requires extraordinary action. If you look at the average calculation of the current price in 2020, it was 11.6 øre. So we had record power prices last year. If you look at the average price over the last 10 years, it was 27.8 cents. This shows that we have had a system that has ensured good electricity contracts for both Norwegian industry and Norwegian consumers over a long period of time. Then we have an extraordinary situation right now, and it requires extraordinary action. I think it's incredibly important that we then focus on what's really the challenge. That is why we have promoted our proposal where we say that when Statkraft makes more money to sell electricity, it is also natural for consumers to take part in it through concrete solutions, concrete arrangements, just to help those who need it the most, in a situation where electricity billing has become a problem. That is why we have promoted our proposal, and we hope and believe that the government – when we see that the government parties, including SV, have now promoted a proposal for their own government, or at least to the Workers' Party-Center Party-government, where they are asking for their own policy to be corrected – it is good. We need a more focused system that hits those who need the most, including students. Then I think it's fine – when the Minister of Oil and Energy now sits here: the Hurdal platform says that one should «work to continue and strengthen Nordic and European cooperation in power in a way that is in line with the interests of Norway as an energy and industrial nation». It's a starting point and a policy that I share, and which I'm very happy that is embedded in the Hurdal platform. But it can sometimes seem like, especially when I listen to central party representatives, that it's not so very firm among both government parties. So it's nice if the Council of State can figure out that it's actually the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4466	The best way to reduce differences is for children and young people to get a good education so that they can get a job and manage themselves. The good framework conditions for creating and maintaining jobs in the private sector are also essential for giving people work, and not least for maintaining the sustainability of the welfare state. The budgetary agreement for the government is bad news for both students and workplaces. Right in the government prioritised the school – our ambition was that in 2030 90 pst. by the students completing secondary school. The government and the SV show that the most important thing for them is neither knowledge, completion nor learning. The most important thing seems to be where the school building is. The government pays for the maintenance of school buildings by cutting school hours, the teacher-specialist system and the funds to raise the students who were hanged because of the corona. I'm sorry. The budgetary agreement shows that the government and the SV lack answers to the major challenges facing Norway. How are they going to get more people to finish school when they cut knowledge to prioritize construction? How are they to create more jobs when they send a heavy tax bill to an already under pressure business? How are they going to prevent health cows from growing when they want to cancel contracts with private operators that can repair cows? How are they going to cut the greenhouse gas emissions they're saying they're going to cut? How are they going to prevent and deal with crime when they want to have a police structure that clearly turned out to be out of date? How are they to maintain legal certainty for people when they want to return to a court structure that, in the opinion of the National Audit Office, was a threat to legal certainty? I could still do that – it is sad to witness that good and necessary efforts from the previous government are being stopped or reversed. This is not the way to go to address the challenges facing Norway. Finally, a comment on the interventions in which the justice sector is being dubbed: this sector has seen a sharp increase during the Solberg administration, and the sector has never been better able to cope with today’s challenges. Now, the heavy trade unions are asking the government not to reverse the reforms. I really hope the government will listen to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4479	It has been very interesting to follow the debate here in Stortinget today. It has been about the draft government budget for next year, but it has also been about electricity prices. That's why I'm taking the floor here. I understand that the debate has been largely about electricity prices, because it is a worrying situation. I'm worried that there will be families who are unable to pay their electricity bill, or who have to cut other necessary expenses due to the high power prices. That is why I asked the NVE earlier this week specifically for a new assessment of the power situation and the expected power price during this winter. The NVE's message was that the situation at high prices is going to last through winter, and that prices can also be even higher than what we've seen lately. This is why the government has started work to look at the possibilities available to facilitate the situation this winter. I want to underline ‘this winter’ because, as it has also been said from the Stockholm pulpit earlier today, it is an extraordinary situation, where we have a lot of different conditions that make us have high electricity prices today. We have an integrated power market with the Nordic countries and, in part, Europe. Therefore, it affects the high gas prices, the high coal prices, the high CO2 prices, but also the fact that there has been no wind and little water in the warehouses. I would like to stress that there is no power crisis or power supply crisis in Norway today, but we have a situation with very high power prices. We are now looking at measures that are taking well and that can be implemented quickly, precisely because there is a rather precarious situation. There have been some concrete proposals in this debate on how this can be resolved. I'm open to considering everything that can remedy this situation, but I don't want to go to the Stockholm pulpit here and now decide on the proposals. I'll leave that to Stortinget. I see that proposal No. 284, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV, get a majority, and I'm of course going to follow up the decision that's made immediately. Then there are some of these proposals that have been promoted, which are not about the situation today, but about the power market in the future. In the Hurdal platform, the government has mentioned more than 20 points of action, and we are of course in the process, but it will not help those who cannot pay the electricity bill today. It is therefore necessary to look at these immediate measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4490	SFO is unlikely to be important – a place to stay after school, play and have friends. But not all children can afford to go to SFO. This means that there are a lot of people who get disconnected, based on the contents of the family account. For this very reason, I am unlikely to be happy that we have received a government that will introduce free core time to all first-class classes throughout the country. Today we're on day number. 49 since the new government joined, and this government is delivering.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4497	What is the red-green project – what unites and engages the three parties that have now submitted a common draft budget? When I listen to the posts from the three red-green parts, it's obvious that the red-green project is reversal. Many of the representatives of the Workers' Party have spoken today about a new course. The fenced-out course points straight back. It would be thought that after eight years of opposition, government parties had hatched a whole series of new ideas and better solutions. But there are not new bets, but the reversal of working policies by the government of Solberg gets the most space in the submissions from the government parties. So many reversals had the Workers' Party in its 100-day plan that, according to the Prime Minister's statement, they did not have time to add everyone to the additional number and had to use the negotiations with SV to submit the last one. Red-green parties have agreed to reverse the diversity of welfare services. It is not the users who focus on the red-green, but ideological skylights when the parties plan to phase out commercial operations in tax-funded welfare services. Nor do such formulations testify to an understanding of the creation of values. Whether the private doctors and dentists are also among those that the government will phase out is uncertain. On the right, the government carried out a long-term municipal reform that provided stronger professional environments and better services to the population. The Government’s main ambitions for the municipal sector seem to be to split up well-functioning new organisations. My home municipality, Lillestrøm, was thrown into uncertainty when, as one of its first acts of office, the municipal minister sent a letter to the newly married municipality asking if it could not consider a divorce. In late Monday, there was a happy clarification from the Workers' Party locally that they are committed to further developing the new municipality instead of following the government's reversing plan. Similarly, the Minister of Finance's own home country, the Inland, has rejected the government's desire to reverse and split up the new state. The government parties locally do not want a centralized reversal. In the budget debate, there are few indications that government parties have ambitions for the services offered to citizens. For the Right, it is the population and the service offered to the inhabitants that is the central issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4510	Today marks the start of a new course for our country, where people are most definitely given priority over billionaires. The budgetary agreement between government and SV provides many families and people with a better and safer economy, a little lower shoulders, a little bigger hope for the future. More people get holiday money, more kids get glasses, more families get child welfare, and more people can still get a small amount of work income. This means too many. But it's just a start. We must further – strengthen well-being and benefit. Today also marks the beginning of a safer everyday life for school pupils, kindergarten students, commuters and professional drivers on a racially dangerous road in Suldal, Ryfylke. An extension tunnel shall finally be put in place. Today, I would particularly like to thank and congratulate the many in Ryfylke who never gave up, and who finally listened. The paradox is that while this day marks the power of this hall, we also notice the amputation. Today's debate is probably so much about something that is not decided in the government budget: the electricity prices. For right now there is a strong and fair uprising going on at record high power prices, which frame both industry and household hard. If so, it should be lacking that this is not a major issue in the national parliament of the country. On the other hand, there is a symptom that something entirely decisive in people's lives and economies is taking off the table here among the country's top populace. Since 1990 we have had an energy law that allows the market to control electricity prices and distribution of power. Instead of the people's representatives giving priority to the use of power, and having more powerful means of controlling the electricity price than the charging policy, there is supply, demand and speculation. In recent years, this systemic problem has been reinforced by the integration of the European electricity market. The last two extraterrestrials have given Norway an export capacity far greater than we need for a reasonable exchange of forces. As a result, we import higher power prices. Yes, immediate action is needed for the many people who are currently struggling to pay the current bill. SV and the government are joining forces today to ensure that this happens. In addition, SV will propose measures that limit market power and will provide more reasonable and more stable prices in the longer term. Then we must replace market power with democratic governance. Stream should not be a commodity and speculator. The force shall give light and heat in our houses. The force should be used strategically, so Norway can be an industrial nation and not a commodity colony.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4529	I would like to start by thanking the Council of State for a rather brief explanation about electricity, because electricity prices are of the utmost concern to our finances – and in particular to the state's finances. The state serves richly, while the households are being skinned. I want to remind the Council of State of something the Council of State said on Dagsnytt 18th October. Then the council said no one should freeze because of high power bills. I hope the Council of State remembers these words, because it is not reassuring for people that immediate action is not clear when prices are so high. And it's not going to get any better. Many people are concerned about the current situation in the future, and I will mention three good reasons for this: firstly, the capacity of the foreign tables will be increased from 1 January. Secondly, network rentals shall be increased from 1 January and, according to the calculations, they will increase more than the electricity charge cuts. And thirdly, a running time charge is to be imposed on electricity from 1 January. That is the question I ask myself, and as I believe the Council of State should also ask itself, if the Council of State with its hand on the heart can promise that no one will freeze because of the high electricity prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4536	I would like to start by congratulating SV on the result of the negotiations. I have to say that they have done an ok budget quite red. By red I mean that it has become very expensive. It's a lot of money -- for a lot of good purposes, obviously, but also a lot for wastefulness. There's a little bit of this that's the problem with political money. There is no art of distributing more and more money all the time. The art is to show responsibility, even when it's unpopular, and put the brakes on. There I expected a little more of the Workers' Party and the Center Party. I don't think they've done so well with the responsibility of this budget. What we see is that this budget is to be paid by Norwegian ownership. One thing is those who have a lot of money, they can take it enough, but there's also a lot of that ownership that doesn't feel either privileged or rich. They go to work every day and try to create something – for themselves, for their families and for the community. It is the Norwegian ownership that is now under pressure from this government. It's not just asking those who already pay a lot, to pay more and more and certainly will do it in the years to come. We see another shift in budgetary policy from the government. It is trying to phase out the private sector to a greater extent. It's completely new. It's completely new. It's a real change of pace. They're not just going to pay more taxes. A large number of jobs are to be phased out. There's a sample set to start working on this. Private kindergartens, private hospitals, private children's shelters, health clinics – a lot of them are under attack now. Where's the limit going? Where are you going to put the principle limit? At some point, we may start talking about doctors or dentists or physiotherapists or civil servants or gardeners or janitorial services or anyone who somehow provides services to the public may get this a little demagogic or populist stamp welfare profit. What previously belonged only to an external side of Norwegian policy has now been adopted by the Norwegian Government, and a sample has been set up to deal with this so-called welfare profit movement. I don't like evolution. I think there are a lot of voters, moderate voters, behind both the Center Party and the Workers' Party representatives who don't like this development either. Here I can promise that the Right and the bourgeois parties will take up the fight, show resistance and be an alternative. We're going to say, well, whether you work in the public sector or you work in the private sector, it doesn't matter. The most important thing is to work, create values, bring the welfare community forward with other impulses and ideas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4547	The representative Frølich gave a good picture of what the Right People have largely said in this debate: they are worried, they think it's going to be expensive, and it's terrible when we try to help ordinary people who need a handshake. Had Peter Frölich or other Right-Representatives ever been on leave, I think they had hoped they could get holiday money the following year. Or if you were on redundancy pay, I would have hoped that this room would make it useful to finish that time of work. That's how we can go through the theme of this state budget. I have a lot of understanding that the Right People don't understand what ordinary people's needs really are. That is what they have said in this debate, when they in some way do not realize that spectacle support is important, when they do not realize that holiday pay on unemployment benefits is important. In my opinion, they have then misunderstood. They don't have to worry about value creation or anything. If there's something social democracy over time has shown, not least in the next story, it's that you're very clear on value creation. What should worry is that under the Right Rule there's a It's worrying, because it's the sustainability of Velferds-Norway. We want to increase exports by 55 pst. by 2030, because it is absolutely necessary to correct the errors of the right-hand government as it has developed exactly that relationship. Then we're going to cut the greenhouse gas emissions by 55 pst. until 2030. If we follow the last input of the Solberg government there, we end up at 24 pst. in 2030 – far away from the goal set. By 2030 we most likely have to cover a power loss of maybe as much as 40 TWh per year, if we succeed in using the green shift. The representative of the Harek Rivers said that this government came to the table. There's no way to say it's any more wrong. The big problems are still unresolved. They're in front of us, and today's government is going to take care of it. Finally, to the discussion on price and power: I am very pleased with the good presentation the oil and energy minister gave to Stortinget. I'm still very surprised that two former state councils have been up here expressing their ignorance of that situation. Both the representative Listhaug and the representative Bru have left the offices of the Ministry of Oil and Energy without knowing what reality they were in. It's scary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4558	Those who have declared their ignorance are all the representatives of the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the SV who have stood on this pulpit here today and have not had one answer to all those who are now concerned that the electricity bills are coming, and whether they have money to celebrate Christmas. I am very pleased that the Minister of Oil and Energy comes to Stortinget and takes the floor, even though it was very little new that came from there. We both met Anita Bjørnevig Knutsen at the debate two days ago – a single mother from Agder who described how she and the children are now freezing, and how worried she is about Christmas, when she can barely afford to buy gifts for her children. I believe it is too passive that the government does not lift a finger to come up with measures. Now two days have passed since this debate, where the oil and energy minister was on TV and promised to come back to it. The fact that the NVE now says that it could get worse, that the price could get higher, makes the seriousness just get bigger. The Progress Party will not sit and watch Norwegian electricity customers pay for a failed climate policy in the EU. People need help now. Therefore, I would like to challenge the Minister whether she can guarantee to all those who are now concerned about Christmas, and whether they can afford to pay their bills, that we will find measures that will allow us to get out money before Christmas. I am pleased that it is said that all proposals should be considered, but there are several concrete proposals on the table today that the Labour Party chooses to vote, which the Centre Party chooses to vote down, and which SV chooses to vote down. We both have a proposal that we can pay $4,000 in cash, we have a proposal that we want to deal with urgently, to take control of the foreign tables, and in our alternative budget we have proposed to eliminate both VAT and tax next year. We're in a situation where the state can expect extra income of 30 billion. kr – referenced both in the Evening Post and in the DN. Nevertheless, you sit here and give no answer. The state craves in, and most people bleed. That is why I would have expected the minister to bring something more concrete to all those who are now disappointed that several weeks of budget negotiations gave zero and nothing to anyone who is concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4573	Throughout the day – and in and on its own over the last eight years – the red-green parties have struggled successfully to create the impression that the welfare has been built up under the Solberg government, that the poverty has submerged over the country, that the community is in the process of becoming confused, that the municipal funds are bottom-crashed, and that those who need the help of society are almost left to themselves. The only problem with this narrative is that it's untrue. Indeed, some schemes have changed, and there have been good reasons for this, but the big picture is that the tax intake has increased significantly, that the large amount of money has been spent on strengthening well-being, and that there are more in work and more in completion of the school. Housing-social policies have been significantly strengthened, and there has never been any less homeless before. Hospitals have been added to 21 billion. kr, the waiting times were significantly reduced before the pandemic, the municipality sector has 70 billion. kr on book, which is 40 billion. kr more than they had in 2013, the free revenues have increased by 35 billion. NOK, and the number of ROBEK municipalities has been reduced from 46 to 17. There are 486 more psychologists in Norwegian municipalities, we strengthened health and school health services by 1.3 billion. NOK, and we increased the number of annual jobs in the service by over 1,400. We made a change of pace in the care of Russorg with bets of over 2.4 billion. Dr, and we wanted a new drug reform, which the weakest in society described as the most important social policy reform in many decades. We have rights-based user-driven personal assistance for those who need it, and we have systematically invested in jobs for people who are out of work. We gave free core time in kindergarten and SFO for low-income families, we increased child welfare, we increased the one-time benefit, we put on leisure activities for children, we lowered the threshold to get into working life through individual job support and functional assistance, and we invested enormously in school, with 4,000 more qualified teachers, and 40,000 teachers received further training. We carried out an integration promise and an inclusion table – and I could still. Next year, more money will be spent on public budgets than ever before, but that tree cannot grow into heaven. The action space in the Norwegian economy will be significantly smaller in the years that come, than we've been used to, and that means that we who sit in this room must start to be more interested in how we spend the money we have than how much more we're going to spend. So far, the interest in this has been slow, but it will force a debate on how we can become more innovative in the public sector. New technologies, such as artificial intelligence, the Internet of Things and the sharing of data, can make it possible to offer ordinary – and unusual – people even better services within a tighter economic framework. A good place to start is the purchasing power of the public sector. 600 B.C.E. kr is used each year for goods and services. How we spend that money has an enormous impact on how innovative, sustainable and effective we become, but also on what kind of business we get, and not least on how well-being can be further developed, to the joy of both ordinary and unusually lived lives throughout this country in which we are so happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4585	In the debate that has gone on about history and responsibility and that one has our government council here and the state council there, at least I can say that I have no background or history in that way, and therefore I can only look forward to it. The situation that is now when it comes to power and power prices, was certainly not predictable in this room or otherwise. It's coming rushing into our society, and it's very serious for most people who now have problems paying the bills, and not least people who actually sit and freeze. That's the situation. In this context, we are launching the debate here today with Minister of Finance Trygve Slagsvold Vedum, who is not talking about the electricity price crisis with a single word in his article. It was very special. Therefore, it is very good that the Minister of Oil and Energy came here to the Stortinget no – legally late, but she is in place, and it is good – but there is still vague play on what is going to happen. Something has to happen when it relates to the price situation of electricity in Norway. We can't have it like that. It's very dramatic for business, it's very dramatic for most people, and we're going into Christmas -- people can't wait until January or February or March because you're going to have some bureaucratic stuff before you can figure out what it's like. Then it's sad that we in this room here today can't adopt anything else. Finally, to the representative of the Labour Party, who was most busy in blaming or someone should know: if everyone in the previous government should know, what makes today's government not aware? Then today's government should know what to do, if the previous government should have known. Here's something really scouring. We should deliver a clarification today to the Norwegian people. We should cut the electricity prices. We should be gripping when it concerns the export of electricity to the rest of the world, stop it. As we pierce stream out of the country, there will be less competition and rising price. So here's a lot of things to deal with, but the prices should be cut right now, in this room today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4598	The previous speaker said that no one could foresee this. Well, oil and energy minister Tord Lien said in 2016 that there were too low electricity prices, and that there had to be measures in place to raise the prices of renewable energy. But I agree with the previous speaker that there is no sense in blame-sharing. What we have to do now is take action in the short term and in the long term. In the short term, we have already taken action in the area of housing aid, in the case of electricity taxes, which are cut back to the level from the 1990s, while the previous government – with the Progress Party – increased the electricity charge. Then we're also going to work quickly with further measures, so that people can afford to pay their bills. It's important. I think all of them in this room are just as worried about the current prices that we see now. I think it has been a great debate in Stortinget today. There have been a lot of new representatives in the pulpit, and I'm looking forward to the next four years in Stortinget. There were some right-wing representatives at the end here because new representatives had been out of work and had not been out of business and therefore did not understand about value creation. I want to take a great deal of distance from the kind of characteristics of new, young representatives who have been on the platform here today and deliver the goods much more than most experienced representatives – and that applies to all parties. So the Right has also been concerned with universal well-being. Yes, we have even heard that it was wasteful to bet on the universal welfare state. That's what the Norwegian welfare state is based on, that we have a common welfare state that everyone supports, and that is a common insurance system for all of us. There was certainly also irresponsible budgeting in this budget – and it came from the Right, which has increased and increased and increased the use of oil money, even before the pandemic, increased the use of oil money in good times to make its budgets go up. In the first budgetary agreement with a new majority in the United Kingdom, non-oil money consumption is increasing. I'm proud and satisfied with that. Then we've had representatives from the Workers' Party and the Center Party on the pulpit here today who have been enthusiastic on behalf of their communities and the issues that are now being adopted, on behalf of their municipalities – which are now being strengthened by the community economy, which can hold community schools that were about to be closed, one can hire more people in the care of the elderly, in the kindergartens – and in view of the active business policy one should run around the whole country, where one has to cut emissions and create jobs. The overall project of this new majority is about making everyday life easier for people, better economy, better welfare for people. This is the greenest and most redistributive budget that the Stortinget has adopted for many, many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4613	In this long debate that I have had the honour and joy of following for eight years before this year, I have heard the Labour Party – in these debates – draw a very gloomy picture of Norway under the Solberg government. It's all right and perhaps to expect when you're in opposition, but I have to say that I think it's something special to hear the exact same rhetoric being the main tone of this debate when you're actually in position, has won the election. You'd think you could show a little more joy and focus a little more on your own policy than anything that's so bad in Norway because of the way we've been running. Criticism is so charismatic, it's so grossly unreasonable. I sat in the hall earlier today and heard a representative from the Workers' Party talk about the evil under the right government, the evil that has been in existence for eight years under the right government. Then I heard the representative Aasland standing here now accusing me of not knowing what reality I was in while I was an oil and energy minister. Then it is something special that the government has chosen not to draw out the big message I sent, but in fact it believes it is so good that we should handle it. So something real has come with me in the time I was an oil and energy minister. It's not so much nice to say about that rhetoric, except that I might say thank you – thank you because it really arouses my commitment. I want to work on it, I want to work on it, it gives me the belief in the Right Solutions, that they're the best for the country, and I'm going to continue in our years of opposition now. It is that every government this country has, please, make Norway a little better. It's also going to be the case with this government. After all, we agree quite a lot. So correctly, the Right believes that it is wrong to lubricate thinly. That's not the way we want to prioritize. But it is not evil, and we can have a debate on it. So it's a little strange to hear all the Workers Party representatives here today talk about – again – all the unsocial cuts, all the time they almost didn't prioritize to reverse one of the cuts in their own additional proposition, but now they take the credit because of the comparison with SV. Then I have to say that I think the Workers' Party has also reached a sort of new bottom in its rhetoric when, in the debate on current today, in its eagerness to shift the focus away from the fact that they are not today launching a solution to help those who are struggling with the current, they say that the high power prices we see now are an inherited power crisis after the Solberg government. I think the Workers' Party knows how the power market works. I think they also know that they largely agree with the policy we have in this area in Norway and that it is not the policy we have taken that now leads to high electricity prices. I want to remind you that there has been an incredible amount of more renewable energy built in the years we've been running. Never before has it built more networks, and it's thanks to our policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4628	I heard the oil and energy minister explain the situation in the power market and that we don't have a power crisis. It's an interesting debate, but it doesn't help ordinary people now, people who have an acute problem, and that problem is that they can't pay the electricity bill. They need immediate help, and we've heard a little too long – and a little too many times – that the government should look at different solutions. But now it actually has to end the seminar, now it has to be done. It's what ordinary people expect, and it's also what ordinary people deserve. It doesn't help people and businesses that taxes and taxes are now increasing by 9 billion. kr. Only charges alone increase by 3.5 billion. kr. It will be noticed by ordinary people who already have major challenges because of increased spending on everyday life, and it's not all, the richest, that the left-hand side keeps moving forward, that gets this bill. It is those who contribute most to the creation of value in society who have to pay. And even if the back is strong, the shoulds can get too heavy. It does not help parents of 140 000 children that the red-green majority will undermine the economy of private kindergartens and also eliminate private health and care providers. The result will be less diversity and poorer quality and, in particular, increased costs will be incurred both for municipalities and for users. Norway has a good interaction between public and private, and it has to be continued, not destroyed. It is important that we have room for private and alternative providers that can contribute to the better functioning of public services as well. That's what ordinary people deserve, and it's at least what our children deserve, and it's 140,000 of them who benefit from a private kindergarten offer. Then it will probably just have to say thank you for the debate – thank you for a long debate. So it's going to be exciting to see what's coming next in terms of measures to relieve the high current costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4639	I would like to thank you for a good debate that I believe has been factual and relevant. I think it might be useful for Right concerned representatives to think that what is happening here is not dangerous polarization, but an image that power in this country is being redistributed now. For today we have heard that all of them have had the worst advice, which has marked the unsocial cuts of the right-wing government the hardest, and they now get a majority that reverses these cuts. We hear the sound of the nation's richest who can no longer turn to the government to get new, big tax cuts. Now those who have become richer and richer are going to contribute more to the community. This isn't polarization, it's redistribution. Right-wing representatives believe that spending money on common welfare as kindergartens is the closest waste of the country, but that if it is private paid by the country to carry out the same welfare services, it is value creation. That commercial benefits can be derived from these tax-funded welfare services is not waste — it is also value creation. The representatives of the Right Party and the Advance Party seem to be serious about the fact that most people make around and over 750,000 dollars a year. Top tax for ordinary people, it's said when the tax stands still or decreases for 82 pst. by nationals of the country. The confusion of the representatives of the Right is complete when there is a warning against over-exploitation of oil money after eight years with an increasing record use of oil money, which SV has opposed. We also do not balance this budgetary agreement by making a new overnight charge, but use redistributive taxes. I will end by saying that today's collapse is facing a power crisis, and tonight we also see the contours of new infectious measures that will certainly characterize us who are now elected, in the same way that it embossed the previous magnification. In both situations, we will have to work together — with the coronary crisis, because it will require new measures to secure people and jobs, and with the power crisis, because it illustrates the challenges that the climate crisis will pose. We must dramatically transform both the power market, industry and transport systems. Our joint task will be to ensure that it does not increase differences in Norway. The climate crisis and the inequality crisis are linked and must be resolved together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4652	Three reflections after a long debate: firstly, it has been fascinating to see all the representatives from the Labour Party who go to the Chair one by one and are so proud of the new government that ultimately prioritizes well-being, which has got heart heat back into Norwegian policy. Example they use, what is it? Yes, it is for those receiving the daily allowance to receive the holiday money, to have the spectacle support, and to have a free core time in the SFO. What are the issues in common? It is that the Labour Party Government has not proposed them in its budget. Hadia Tajik's explanation of that was that they had to have a financially responsible arrangement. But now it's inside. To the extent that there is the difference between a hearty and a hearty eight budget, I think quite a lot of representatives from the Labour Party should be happy that someone else contributed with a heart starter in this process. The second is that there's been a long discussion about power prices, with good reason. There is no one – nor do we in the Left – who blames the Minister of Oil and Energy for the lack of the wind, for the slump of water storage, or for the fact that the gas is expensive. The reason why there is a debate is that the government presented its priorities together with SV on Monday, four days ago. That was when a lay budget for the winter, that was when one showed its priorities. The power crisis was not an unknown phenomenon at the time. On the contrary, there is an extraordinary exchange from Statkraft, 2.3 billion. kr, which comes from Norwegian power customers, and has not used it to help these power customers, but on the welfare schemes I call them instead. That's the priority. Then there will be a debate. There are better proposals in this Chamber today, for example: from the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, who target those who need it, and who still have the opportunity to vote for it. It should be done. Three: Fortunately, there has also been a lot of discussion about the longer lines, about greenhouse gas emissions and about the green shift. The representative from the SV, but also from the government party, goes up and says that this budget has been so green, it is the greenest budget one can vote for, but no one can prove why. They don't explain why it is. The only thing the government has said is that, in their draft budget, it would emit between 1.5 and 2 million tonnes higher than its budget. Has a hint for new numbers to indicate that they should actually be larger? No, it's not. It's been a while. It's been a while. Here's an increase in the tax rate by almost 10 billion. kr and priority much different, but one has no priority power clients, one has not prioritised the green shift. That is why the Left is voting against this budget today. Fortunately, we have a good alternative we're going to vote for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4663	In a debate like this, it is interesting to listen to both some of the things being said by the opposition, and some of the things that are not being said and not stressed – especially when it comes from a then majority, from the right, with the support party the Progress Party, which, over eight years, has pursued a targeted policy of increased centralisation, a policy where one does not see the whole of Norway. The government budget adopted a year ago by the Stortinget, by the right-wing government and the party supporting the Progress Party, triggered a holiday uprising in Norway a few weeks later. In this debate, it has been nice – if anything – to hear about ferries and ferry prices from the opposition. It may not be so strange, because if the budget of the right-wing government had been adopted, there would have been higher ferry prices in Norway next year, while with the proposal we are now making to adopt, ferry prices will go down further, and we will also ensure that in some of the most vulnerable communities in Norway, the island communities, those who live ultimately, they will get free ferry. It is targeted policy to see Norway as a whole. Nor have there been so many from the former government parties and the support party of the Progress Party who have spoken about the police in this debate. I haven't heard a single person. It may not be so strange either, because if their budget had been adopted, there would have been less money for the police and local police. We provide a majority to strengthen local police and preparedness throughout Norway. We also strengthen hospital economy, permanent doctors, etc. Then there's been a discussion about power prices. Obviously, the representative Sve did not follow very closely when the Minister of Finance presented the additional number from the government, because there was one topic that was important there, it was just that the new government has a completely new policy that takes a settlement with the increase in fees and the belief in increased electricity prices The Progress Party that the supporting party and the government party have stood for. Electricity prices must be addressed through both reducing taxes, increasing housing aid and targeting measures. The Progress Party has presented today is a cash support that means that, with my good income and relatively low electricity costs compared to others, I will receive as much in cash payments as, for example, a small-child family with low income and high electricity costs. Instead, a person can go focused, work purposefully with good government arrangements and come back quickly. That's exactly what the majority's proposals add up to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4676	After hearing the debate, I thought that the witch in that dark kingdom should also make an article. [[muttering in the hall]] But I'm glad that the sun is rising, that everything is going to solve, and that the next time we have a budget debate, everything is repaired. Despite the fact that nine out of ten dollars we have spent in the last years have gone to welfare in Norway, despite the fact that the municipalities have more money on book and better results in this period than they have in periods before, including the previous red-green period, and despite the fact that we have seen in many areas that we have better results, one has this heavy sense over it. I agree that there are areas in our society that we haven't solved yet, and that there are tasks that need to be worked on even more. That's why I'm a politician and I've been working hard for so many years, because there's always new tasks to tackle. But we should sometimes bring some of the points of light. Norway has come out of the pandemic — so far — in a way where we have taken better care of health and goods in the economy than most other countries have done. That's why we've also been assigned to the country that's been the best to live in through this pandemic. There are many reasons for that, but it shows some of our strength. We are a country that – with the third quarter of exports – has had 43 pst. increase of eight years in exports in Norway compared with entering in 2013. I realize that it's ambitious to increase it to 50 pst. in nine years – I don’t think it’s that ambitious, because we’ve had both an oil price drop and a pandemic behind this – but we have clearly 43 pst. increase. We see that there is an increase in the workforce. I have stood and heard the Workers' Party say that this crisis can cause more people to stay out of work permanently. But now the figures show that there is an increase in the labour force in Norway, as one of the few OECD countries. We should really be happy about what we have the strength to do. But then there is one issue that hangs in the air, and that is the question of how to ensure that people with normal incomes, families with relatively difficult financial frameworks, get through a crisis related to high power prices. Several parties have presented different solutions. The only people who haven't tabled a solution are the majority, the government parties, and then they ask for more time to work on it, and that's fine in itself. I expect that they can find such a solution, but there is one question: Will there be a solution that means using more oil money – since you have now boasted that you are not using it – or will there be a solution where you go back into the budget that we are adopting today, and cut into priorities that have been done, to do something for people who have high electricity prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4689	It is clear that the Right has had a rhetorical meeting where the conclusion was that they should describe the representatives of the government parties as darkness, while the Hall here today has actually been filled with representatives of the government parties who enthusiastically have told of the new political project. And yes, most of it is good in Norway — a great deal is good in Norway for most people — but there are big, new tasks that have not been taken enough hold in the last eight years and that require full effort from the new government and from a new growth rate. There has been a doubling in the number of young people unemployed. We are not in a position to achieve the climate objectives – fortunately, we are now adopting a budget that strongly strengthens climate policy. It's too low industrial investment, to mention some issues. So political projects are about moving forward towards new goals, but it's also about taking care of some of the best things in our society. Government parties are concerned with preserving some of the core values in Norway: high trust, low differences, living settlements and vibrant cities. We believe that the policy that has been pursued in the last eight years has led us in the wrong direction, and that the policy that is to be pursued now will take us in the right direction. It's not darkness. It is enthusiastic about a new political project that has seen the light of day, and today an excellent government budget is being adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4696	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. The President would also like to remind you of new infectious diseases measures, which have been e-mailed to all representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4710	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4722	The President will propose that these statements be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4734	A total of 287 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 281-283, from Tina Bru on behalf of the Right, Left and Christian Party the proposals No 2–140, from Hans Andreas Limi on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 141, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 142 and 280, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of the Red the proposals No 143 to 276 and 285 to 287, by Kristoffer Robin Haug on behalf of the Greens the proposals No 277, 278 and 284, by Eigil Knutsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No 279, by Frank Edvard Sve on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 277 replaces I in the recommendation, while proposal No. 281 replaces proposal No. 1 in the settings. Proposals Nos. 1–276 is included on pages 70–87 of the vote, while the 277–287 proposals are available in paper and on the saddle. The President will first vote on the motions in the vote, followed by the so-called'resolutions', then II and III in the recommendation. The representative Hans Andreas Limi has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4769	It concerns the examination of proposal No. 278 and voting. There is actually a proposal with 59 sub-points, and the Progress Party would like to be able to vote for some of these sub-points. That is why we are asking that this vote be split up and that we do not vote on the proposal as a whole. I will quickly mention what sub-points we want to vote for in the proposal. That's sub-paragraphs 3, 24, 27, 30, 36-38, 46, 47, 49, 51-53.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4776	The representative Hans Andreas Limi has asked for separate voting on the individual points of proposal No. 278, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. After what the President has understood, the proposers are in favour of an overall vote, and it will also be the President's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4781	President! That's for what the president said now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4786	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4791	The representative Hans Andreas Limi now, in effect, promoted a proposal that the vote on proposal No. 278, which contains 59 separate proposals, is dealt with in a normal way, i.e. if someone – one or more representatives – wants to vote in favour of one of the 59 proposals that have been edited here, but which are 59 proposals, it has always been complied with in the past. It has also been so, when you promote a number of proposals, that most people think it's nice if others want to vote in favour of the proposals. It has never been known to me that you wanted to force other representatives to vote against something you are actually in favour of, and then to hang out the representatives who have voted against what they have been in favour of. After this happened yesterday, I checked a little bit in Stortingen's Rules of Procedure with comments, because that's where we can go to find guidance. It says about voting on page 158, that habit ‘will form the basis of the President’s proposal for a voting arrangement, see more detail in the special article on the voting system in Hansen and Mos. 151 flg.’ And on page 160 of the book of Guttorm Hansen and Erik Mo, which I can recommend to those who want to learn about the Rules of Procedure, we read: ‘Perhaps the most significant point of view of the wording of the vote is that, as far as possible, voting shall be arranged in such a way that each representative is given the opportunity to vote in his/her opinion, inter alia. that no one shall be bound in his vote. This must be said to be the general rule for the voting system of the Storting in all years, as it still is’. So, no one should be forced to vote against anything you're actually in favour of. That book also refers to the book of Bjørn Stordrange, which I talked to last night, and I have seen a little bit on the book. It says that the representatives must vote as much as possible for an alternative they do not want. They shall preferably not be bound by their vote or forced to choose between pesteze and cholera. If you, for example, is against both proposals that are available, voting must be arranged in such a way that you do not have to vote for anything just to go against something else. A representative shall then be able to prevent an alternative voting where someone so wishes. The assumption has always been that the Storting agrees on the voting system. So there are 59 proposals here, but to save blacks and others, it says, "The government asks," and then there are 59 proposals – instead of what the vote says. In the vote, there are correspondingly many proposals, but instead of putting up a whole bunch of proposals after the 'Government Asks the Government', it has been put up so that the 'Government Asks the Government' for each proposal. That you wanted to save blacks and not have three sides, but just two, I understand, but it's 59 proposals. And then the proposal from the representative Hans Andreas Limi is that the proposals that we want to vote for are like to be taken up as a block, and if there are other parties that want to do the same, it must also be respected. This has been a sure tradition about from the beginning of the Storting, and it would be sad if the majority now change the principle and force a minority to vote against something you are for, just because you take a lot of suggestions and vote over them together, instead of respecting the division that Hans Andreas Limi has proposed. In any case, I assume that there will be a vote between the President's proposals and Hans Andreas Limi's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4816	I would like to thank the representative Hagen for making the first real voting of the new big business president a little bit more exciting. [[Laughter]] The representative, Eigil Knutsen, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4823	I have not been sitting on the Stortinget for as long as the representative Hagen, but the way this was solved – at least in the last period – was that the proposal we are now discussing is a package of various proposals. If you want to signal that one supports some of them, you give it from the pulpit. Then it comes to the record that the party wants to support the proposals. This is a practical and straightforward way to solve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4829	The size of the case is therefore in favour of the procedure relating to proposal No. 278. An alternative is to vote between the President's proposal for an overall vote and the proposal made by Hans Andreas Limi to vote on individual points in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e4841	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 143, 145, 148, 153, 192, 198, 199, 204, 219, 221, 225, 229, 232, 233, 241, 247, 249 to 251, 253, 265, 272 and 273 of the Green Party. Proposal No. 143 sounds: « Framework Decision
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e5103	Proposal No. 145 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the extension of the leisure card pilot scheme to a national leisure card scheme for children and young people aged 6 to 18 years and for an extension of the basic amount for the age range 13 to 18 years.’ Proposal No. 148 sounds: ‘The government requests the extension of the early childhood allowance to lone dependants with children aged 0 to 3 to all children under 18 years of age’.» Proposal No. 153 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that support schemes for tour activities reward environmentally friendly modes of transport’.» Proposal No. 192 reads: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the contribution to the continuation and further development of the FutureBuild innovation programme as a greening investment in urban and urban development and the construction industry, and to contribute to the programme’s raising as a national initiative covering other urban, rural and rural areas.’ Proposal No. 198 sounds like: ‘The government is asked to set up a scheme of daily allowances for new graduates for 26 weeks according to the model of the day-to-day pay scheme for newly-distinguished guardians.’ Proposal No. 199 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make a proposal on how to avoid people still not being cleared after three years of redundancy pay.’ Proposal No. 204 sounds: ‘The budget agrees that the Ministry of Food and Fisheries in 2022 may: provide the Export Credit Guarantee Institute with authority to provide commitments for new guarantees within a framework for new guarantees and old responsibilities of a further 2 billion. SEK in construction loans within the shipbuilding industry and that investments are reserved to reduce the emissions from the ship's fleet. provide the Export Credit Guarantee Institute with the power to provide commitments for new guarantees within the framework of 2 billion. crowns of renewable investment in developing countries.» Proposal No. 219 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a grant scheme targeted at helping the weakest groups in society when society is shut down, such as refugees, beggars, homeless, migrant workers, undocumented sex workers and children in violent homes, all of whom are extremely vulnerable.’ Proposal No. 221 sounds like: ‘The government asks the government to launch a public inquiry into human health.’ Proposal No. 225 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to establish several hospice offering a good and worth offering to the dying.’ Proposal No. 229 reads: ‘The government is asked to facilitate and support the establishment of senior collectives and similar networks that improve quality of life and where residents contribute to one another’. Proposal No. 232 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with a plan to roll out new methods for treating treatment-resistant depression and other mental disorders according to the model of DPS at the Hospital Østfold to all the country’s hospitals of sufficient size.’ Proposal No. 233 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a centre for research and development of innovative treatments for mental health and mental health.’ Proposal No. 241 sounds: ‘The government requests the reintroduction of the Action Plan for Gender Equality in Kindergarten.’ Proposal No. 247 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and come back with proposals for a commercialisation permit scheme for research personnel to support the commercialisation of research results.’ Proposal No. 249 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a reversal of previous practices to cover cuts in the research budget by redeploying funds already allocated to research projects and bringing back a plan to ensure that the funds earmarked for research projects are returned to the State budget for this recovery period so that the balance and economic predictability are restored.’ Proposal No. 250 sounds: ‘The government is asking for differentiated apprenticeship grants to be introduced by the government in order to increase the opportunities for apprenticeships for students with low theoretical competence.’ Proposal No. 251 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to establish a free Norwegian course scheme for all international students and, at the same time, to extend the period of international students may be allowed to stay to apply for a job.’ Proposal No. 253 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting, for the purposes of deployment, a toll on main roads between parts of the country and at the national border where there is also a railway, earmarked for development and capacity improvements on the railway in the same corridor.’ Proposal No. 265 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that it is possible for municipalities to finance the operation of public toll transport through urban growth agreements.’ Proposal No. 272 sounds: ‘The government is asked to investigate and propose the creation of an SPU climate investment fund in which tax revenue in addition to ordinary tax revenue, as well as taxes on the oil industry, is transferred to SPU climate investment funds rather than the current SPU. The fund shall be used for climate investment in developing countries.’;» Proposal No. 273 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend Section 5 of the State Pension Fund Act in order to allow direct transfer from the Fund to the United Nations Green Fund for Climate Action abroad and other climate investment funds following decisions in the Stortinget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e5232	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 144, 146, 147, 149 to 152, 154 to 191, 193 to 197, 200 to 203, 205 to 218, 220, 222 to 224, 226 to 228, 230, 231, 234 to 240, 242 to 246, 248, 252, 254 to 264, 266 to 271 and 274 to 276, of the Green Party. Proposal No. 144 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to step up the one-off social benefit at birth and adoption, with the objective of a three-fold in sight.’ Proposal No. 146 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to investigate and introduce a standard of service in the municipal child protection system with a maximum limit of 15 children per case handler.’ Proposal No. 147 sounds: ‘The Government requests the transfer of responsibility for all lone minor asylum seekers to child protection from 1 July 2022.’; Proposal No. 149 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to continue the statutory cultural school and to lay down a separate regulation to the Training Act in order, inter alia, to regulate professional level, capacity and level of self-payment.’ Proposal No. 150 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with an assessment of whether the distribution of cultural resources between regions is fair and, where appropriate, to ensure a more even distribution of cultural resources between regions in order to ensure a more equivalent cultural offer for all in the country.’» Proposal No. 151 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the State’s grant and guarantee income for artists in order to regulate scholarships and guarantee income in line with salary growth.’ Proposal No. 152 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with an assessment of the potential for living cultural history, tourism and nature conservation by cooperating, for example, the Swedish Coast Guard Agency, the State Department of Natural Sciences and the Ministry of Culture on individual lighthouses along the Norwegian coast.’ [[SNO]] Proposal No. 154 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the incentive scheme to attract international film and series productions to Norway to be further developed in order to reward productions with low climate and environmental pressures to a greater extent.’ Proposal No. 155 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to start talks with the municipality of Trondheim and Trøndelag County to ensure the financing of the upgrading of the buildings currently housed in the Nordenfjeldische Kunstindustriemuseum in Trondheim, so that the national values of the museum can be preserved.’ Proposal No. 156 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure the participation of women in decision-making processes as part of the assistance.’ Proposal No. 157 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to make the participation of children and young people a key principle in peace, humanitarian and prevention work and to draw up a Norwegian Action Plan for Security Council Resolution 2250 on Youth, Peace and Security.’ Proposal No. 158 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that Norway in the UN Security Council promotes action against the killing and persecution of environmental activists.’ Proposal No. 159 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that Norway uses its membership of the UN Security Council to take the initiative to clarify the legal status of people fleeing from their homes due to climate change and extreme weather, so that this group does not fall outside international legal protection, for example by promoting Norway’s proposal that climate refugees be included in the legal definition of refugees in the UN Convention on Refugees.’; Proposal No. 160 sounds: ‘The Government requests Norway to join the international ban on nuclear weapons.’ Proposal No. 161 sounds: ‘In the light of recent developments, the government is asked to resume a strategy to promote cooperation between civil society in Norway and Belarus, in line with the commitment until 2014.’ Proposal No. 162 sounds: ‘The government asks that the proportion of the population who can receive free legal aid be increased to 25 p.m., in line with the recommendations of the Justice Committee.’ Proposal No. 163 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with an assessment of the increasing length of proceedings in the Conciliation Councils and proposals to reduce them.’ Proposal No. 164 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with an assessment of the decline in the treatment of criminal cases in the conflict councils, which has been in progress since 2009, and measures to increase the number of criminal cases dealt with.’ Proposal No. 165 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with an assessment of the increasing length of proceedings in asylum and family immigration cases, and with proposals on how to reduce the duration of proceedings.’ Proposal No. 166 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a scheme for climate change refugees to Norway following the model of the Pacific Access Category scheme in New Zealand for persons displaced from their homes due to: climate change/natural disasters but falling outside the definition of refugee. the 1951 Refugee Convention and the 1967 Protocol.» Proposal No. 167 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for a separate quota for climate refugees, with the same reception and inclusion offers as quota refugees, and promoting such schemes internationally.’ Proposal No. 168 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a two-party process in the Study on Foreign Affairs in order to strengthen the legal certainty of asylum seekers and the confidence in the asylum system.’ Proposal No. 169 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a safe investigation and follow-up of disappearance cases with children from reception of asylum.’ Proposal No. 170 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the physical and mental health of asylum seekers is monitored shortly after arrival.’ Proposal No. 171 sounds: ‘The government requests the establishment of a compensation scheme for those who have been forced into sterilisation as a precondition for changing legal gender.’ Proposal No. 172 sounds: ‘The government requests the suspension of the temporary residence scheme for lone minor asylum seekers aged between 16 and 18 and at least ensure that these and young people without paper are able to complete secondary education which has started in Norway even after the age of 18.’; Proposal No. 173 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to suspend the use of ‘limited residence permits due to doubt as to identity’ for children under 18 years of age.’ Proposal No. 174 sounds: ‘The government is asking to monitor the competence of asylum seekers shortly after arrival in order to provide work-oriented training or jobs as early as possible and to facilitate the recognition of foreign education.’ Proposal No. 175 sounds: ‘The government is asking for better conditions on Trandum, inter alia, by extending the interpretation offer, introducing independent psychological competence, providing sustainable human rights treatment for those living there, and limiting residence to a maximum of 72 hours.’ Proposal No. 176 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to take the initiative of pan-European solutions to ensure adequate search and rescue capacity in the Mediterranean.’ Proposal No. 177 sounds like: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the government covers the search fee for the family members of children who have been evacuated from Afghanistan.’; Proposal No. 178 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to review police foreign controls practices in order to prevent them from operating in a discriminatory manner.’ Proposal No. 179 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to make it compulsory to provide a receipt whenever someone is stopped by the police and customs, in order to reveal possible prejudiced racist patterns in attacks.’ Proposal No. 180 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the maintenance and strengthening of children’s homes, crisis centres and emergency services for victims of violence in close relations in all parts of the country, including through improved framework conditions.’ Proposal No. 181 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with a report on the state of law and vulnerabilities and to develop a strategy with measures to strengthen the Norwegian legal state.’ Proposal No. 182 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make animal police a nationwide unit under the Police Directorate, extending the coverage from today’s situation with established animal police in six of the 12 police districts of the country to all twelve.’ Proposal No. 183 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take responsibility for the development of a common digital action tool that can be used by the response actors and, in the context of the revised state budget for 2022, to return to Stortinget with an assessment of the costs of getting it in place.’ Proposal No. 184 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that public emergency seats ensure that non-governmental organisations are included in contingency plans and participation in joint exercises with police, state administrators and municipalities, and to ensure that the police are obliged to coordinate and ensure the interaction between the various actors between the events.’; Proposal No. 185 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a compensation mechanism to ensure that volunteers involved in rescue work are covered all costs incurred in connection with the rescue work.’ Proposal No. 186 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess changes in cost-balancing and/or the major urban grant in order to better capture the costs of raising living conditions’.» Proposal No. 187 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and come back with proposals for a grant and/or loan scheme, for example through the Husbank, to finance municipal strategic land purchase in urban press areas, life-threatening urban areas and urban development areas.’ Proposal No. 188 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the living environment grant is established as a separate State grant scheme. The scheme shall be independent of grants for area actions and shall be extended to non-territorial areas where living conditions are not in progress. The grant shall be directed towards joint ventures, housing laws, organisations and other non-commercial actors.’;» Proposal No. 189 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a subsidy scheme for municipalities to provide good and safe housing and growth environments in less-favoured areas. In particular, the grant should focus on measures for children and young people.» Proposal No. 190 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate a non-commercial third housing sector in the settlement between municipal housing and the open market and to allow municipalities to require that up to 30 pst. by the housing units of new residential projects are allocated to the third housing sector.» Proposal No. 191 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals for legislative changes that help to strengthen tenants’ rights in the housing market.’ Proposal No. 193 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to amend the Law on Planning and Building with a view to improving the quality of the outdoor areas in new construction projects.’ Proposal No. 194 sounds: ‘The government is asked to transfer responsibility for lone minor asylum seekers aged 15 to 18 to the protection of children’. Proposal No. 195 sounds: ‘The government is asking that refugee measures in Norway not be considered ODA funds, as this is taken from the aid budget.’ Proposal No. 196 sounds: «The government is asked to come back with a proposal that workers who lose their job may retain the daily allowance during re-education/re-education. The system should be set up in such a way as to provide staff with new training, e.g.: in the case of requirements for seagoing service in the labour market or for a different training from the previous.’» Proposal No. 197 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to come back with a proposal on how to guarantee new graduates the right to a daily allowance if they become unemployed at the end of their education.’ Proposal No. 200 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal for a security of income for persons who have not been cleared unaccountably after three years on redundancy pay.’ Proposal No. 201 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a proposal on how students can receive income protection in the event of unemployment, as nearly 7 out of 10 students are now financing their living at work in addition to support from the Loan Fund.’ Proposal No. 202 sounds: ‘The government is requesting a tourist tax for destinations where local and regional destination companies consider this measure to be necessary.’ Proposal No. 203 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a profit-based base rate tax on sea wind that ensures that the community receives income from energy production, as we have received for many years from the oil industry.’ Proposal No. 205 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an assessment of the Joint Municipal Journal Resolution project against alternative models based on platform/ecosystem solutions, so that the Storting can make decisions on the most appropriate way forward for electronic patient records.’ Proposal No. 206 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to develop better cooperation and untapped solutions for common electronic records between specialist and primary health services that will specifically include alternatives based on platform/ecosystem solutions.’ Proposal No. 207 sounds: ‘The government asked the government to investigate an increase of the Norwegian hospital cover to 85 pst. in line with OECD recommendations.» Proposal No. 208 sounds: ‘The government is asked to investigate and come back with suggestions on how Norway can increase the number of permanent intensive care facilities in Norwegian hospitals by 100 and the number of monitoring sites by 300, and at the same time train enough qualified health professionals to do so.’ Proposal No. 209 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to address the need for increased number of rehabilitation sites and activities in the specialist health service and in the municipalities and to come back with a proposal to that effect. An upgrade plan for rehabilitation, including training of professional staff, shall also be explored and proposed in order to provide timely assistance to people with rehabilitation needs and potential.’;» Proposal No. 210 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the Namsos Hospital becomes one of the places where adaptations are made to the new rescue helicopter as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 211 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a pilot project in which participants may retain a partial follow-up from the paediatric psychiatry at the same time as they are phased into adult psychiatry. The aim of the project shall be to gain experience in order to establish a permanent transitional arrangement ensuring a smoother transition between the two systems in the long term.’;» Proposal No. 212 sounds: ‘The government requests the establishment of a national asthma and allergy programme according to the model of Finland.’ Proposal No. 213 sounds: ‘The government is asked to stimulate a faster life expectancy for the elderly certification of all municipal health and care institutions.’ Proposal No. 214 sounds: ‘The government is asking for incentives for pilot projects for the co-location of the elderly and students in new housing and care institutions, in accordance with the model of the Netherlands.’ Proposal No. 215 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a grant scheme for municipalities that bear high costs for temporary employment because of their size. major rotation or unmanned fixed positions.’;» Proposal No. 216 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a related accounting as a follow-up to the related strategy. The accounts relating to the accounts shall be coordinated with a public body responsible for examining questions of leave and other compensation schemes.’;» Proposal No. 217 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to come back with a proposal for state support for the psychological service of students, which is currently financed by holiday fees.’ Proposal No. 218 sounds: ‘The government calls for the security network of people with mental challenges in times of crisis to be strengthened and for the support of low-threshold helplines and chat forums for people with mental health challenges and mental disorders of all ages to be increased.’ Proposal No. 220 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to evaluate how Norway has, during the coronary crisis, ensured that the most vulnerable groups have met vital needs such as food, a place to sleep, health care and a safe everyday life, and come back with proposals for preparedness improvements such as financial support schemes and emergency solutions such as safe places of residence and public food supply.’ [[such as refugees, beggars, homeless, migrant workers, undocumented sex workers and children in violent homes]] Proposal No. 222 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the free introduction of permanent staff up to the age of 18 years.’ Proposal No. 223 sounds: ‘The government is asked to implement a national early response lift through health centres and the school health service with earmarked funds and a recruitment standard based on the Health Directorate’s recommendations.’ Proposal No. 224 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a change in the funding system by reducing the element of price financing.’ Proposal No. 226 reads: ‘The government is asking how, in cooperation with society, health services can better ensure adequate care, relief and assistance for people with severe disorders due to their age. a serious illness.» Proposal No. 227 sounds: ‘The government is asking for good and individually adapted offers to seriously ill and dying children and their relatives, so that the children can mainly be at home.’ Proposal No. 228 sounds like: ‘The government asks the government to investigate and come back with proposals on how to extend home hospital provision for children to the whole country.’ Proposal No. 230 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to develop and adapt care services to young people’s needs. It is also necessary to ensure good follow-up of the dependants.’ Proposal No. 231 sounds like: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of the National Action Plan against Suicide and for the follow-up of the zero vision in cooperation with the professional community, relatives and user organisations.’ Proposal No. 234 sounds like: ‘The government is asking for further development and support for the provision of drug-free treatment services for individual patient groups.’ Proposal No. 235 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with a plan to increase awareness of mental problems in the elderly and to strengthen the psychiatric health service for this group, including with multiple age psychiatric centres.’ Proposal No. 236 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that persons with long-standing mental and/or drug problems are granted their right to a permanent patient-responsible professional to ensure the necessary coherence and care in the follow-up.’ Proposal No. 237 sounds: ‘The government requests the establishment of user rooms in the larger cities where people using drugs are allowed to take qualified health professionals and are given the opportunity of drug use other than injection.’ Proposal No. 238 sounds like: ‘The government is asked to set up a system for the provision of user equipment and analysis services to ensure the health of people using drugs.’ Proposal No. 239 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate and revise the overdose strategy and to strengthen the suicide prevention work in the overdose strategy.’ Proposal No. 240 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with a plan to ensure safe accommodation and adequate accommodation for drug addicts in cities.’ Proposal No. 242 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and come back with specific measures to strengthen the recruitment of men to kindergarten, with a target of 25 pst. multiple male kindergarten teachers by 2030.» Proposal No. 243 sounds: ‘The decision asks the government to investigate and come back with proposals for a multiple admission admission scheme for the nursery after the child reaches the age of one year’. Proposal No. 244 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate and come back with a plan to provide all newly trained kindergarten teachers with qualified guidance during the first two years of work and then to ensure systematic continuing education and training.’ Proposal No. 245 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce an indicative staffing standard in the Municipal Child Welfare Service.’ Proposal No. 246 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and come back with a plan to ensure that all newly educated teachers in primary school are entitled to qualified guidance in the first two years of their first teaching job, where binding requirements for the competence of supervisors are imposed.’ Proposal No. 248 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to investigate and come back with proposals for the provision of a public fund to support the financial needs of research actors in the context of the publication for Open Access.’ Proposal No. 252 sounds: ‘The government is asking for New Roads AS to be dismantled and for further planning of new motorways to be halted. The funds are redistributed to a reinforced commitment to better maintenance of today’s road network, increased road safety, rail, maritime transport, collective, bicycle and gangways.» Proposal No. 254 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a centralised system, for example through Entour, where passengers by train can easily book the entire journey across national borders and train operators on the same route as an air trip.’ Proposal No. 255 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure better correspondence between trains from Norway and beyond in Europe.’ Proposal No. 256 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure better correspondence between domestic public transport and trains from Norway to abroad.’ Proposal No. 257 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to launch a direct train link to and from major cities in Europe.’ Proposal No. 258 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for an established high-speed rail system for passenger and freight transport between Bergen-Oslo, Trondheim-Oslo and Stavanger-Oslo, including concepts based on existing routes and plans to reduce travel time on these routes.’ Proposal No. 259 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative of the Swedish authorities in a joint investigation into the new high-speed rail system for passenger and freight transport between Oslo and Gothenburg.’ Proposal No. 260 sounds: ‘The government asks that the environmental aid scheme for freight companies be made a permanent scheme and assess whether it should be extended by an incentive scheme for the creation of new routes, in line with maritime patterns.’ Proposal No. 261 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an assessment of the impact on road safety, energy use and operational and maintenance costs by reducing the speed limit on motorways which currently have a speed limit of 120 km/h, 110 km/h and 100 km/h respectively to 100 km/h and 90 km/h.’; Proposal No. 262 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to extend the State compensation scheme for public transport in a transitional phase, at least out of the first half of 2022.’ Proposal No. 263 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit legislative proposals to allow municipalities to impose tax-free parking on a private basis, including shopping centres and workplaces.’ Proposal No. 264 sounds: ‘The Government requests the integration of the Fly train into the regular rail offer.’ Proposal No. 266 reads: ‘The government requests the reintroduction of the family discount on train travel, which ensures that children under the age of 16 travel free of charge with adults’.» Proposal No. 267 sounds: ‘The Government requests that all municipalities and counties present the land and nature budget in the annual budgetary procedure, with effect from 2023.’ Proposal No. 268 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to require all municipalities and county councils to submit the climate budget in the annual budgetary procedure, with effect from 2023.’;» Proposal No. 269 sounds: ‘The government is asking for out-of-court arrangements and financial incentives that make it more attractive to live and live in district municipalities.’ Proposal No. 270 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an investigation into how to prevent the leasing market from becoming a barrier in order to achieve the objective of zero-emission cars for all new cars in 2025.’ Proposal No. 271 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the rules on the payment of social assistance so that payments from climate-reward schemes or other similar schemes for the payment of taxes and charges to residents in Norway do not reduce the amount of social benefits payable.’; Proposal No. 274 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the ABE reform, focusing on assessing whether the reform has weakened the service provision.’ Proposal No. 275 sounds: ‘The government is asked to implement a reform that ensures that periodic penalty payments and charges resulting from administrative errors or delays follow a proportionality principle and do not unduly affect small businesses.’ Proposal No. 276 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal on how municipalities can introduce a voluntary local tourist tax in order to finance public goods.’ [[Kurtax]] Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e5821	There is a vote on proposal No. 142 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: « Framework Decision
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e6092	There is a vote on proposal No. 141, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: « Framework Decision
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e6362	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2, 5–9, 11, 14, 17, 18, 24, 33, 35, 37 and 42, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: « Framework Decision
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e6627	Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government requests the introduction of 98-octane petrol without blending biofuels as a guarantee quality by 1 May 2022.’ [[98E0]] Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the requirement for vehicle veta status from 30 to 20 years in the re-registration fee and the traffic insurance fee in the context of the revised national budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to calculate as soon as possible the proceeds of the amendment of the one-off charge regulation with a new general rule for the definition of a single-use motor vehicle for the calculation of the one-off charge, so that all vehicles supplied as a factory dwelling and having type-approval as a dwelling vehicle are subject to such charging.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to calculate as soon as possible the proceeds of placing on the market a pickup vehicle which complies with the sales requirements for the truck registration schedule without losing its van status.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a phasing-out plan for the re-registration fee in order to reduce it to self-cost.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a further decommissioning plan for the one-off fee, so that this fee is terminated at the latest in the context of the 2025 State budget.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to allow snuffing without tobacco.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a system that opens up the sale of several prescription-free medicines in stores.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to remove the ceiling on the number of shifts of permanent staff.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider transferring responsibility for the Directorate of Mineral Management to the Ministry of Oil and Energy.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the police funding model in order to assess changes with a view to more efficient use of resources.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asked to organise a separate budget line for the integrated police prosecution authority.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government requests the dissociation of the Police Emergency Centre as its own special body, where the Royal Guard Service is also located.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to develop a strategy for the mineral industry, which includes proposals for a streamlined, simplified application process and a plan for making the mineral industry more attractive to investors.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e6707	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 44, 49-52, 54, 58-60, 62-64, 66-69, 72, 76, 77, 80, 83 and 84, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 44 sounds: «The Government is asked to provide full financing of the equipment of the machinery laboratory and the design laboratory of the Ocean Space Centre in the budgets for 2023 and 2024.» Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop land-based strategies for the long-term phase-out of Norwegian aid in beneficiary countries.’ Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to cut the aid to the Palestinian self-government until the ‘terrorism pay’ system has been closed and until the educational material in the schools has been repaired.’ Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘The government is asked to demand that countries receiving Norwegian assistance are constructive partners in addressing refugee and migration challenges, including being willing to establish asylum centres in their territories and settle refugees.’ Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals to introduce the obligation of activity for all age groups receiving social assistance.’ Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals for amendments to the Law on Social Security in order to ensure that, when assessing whether conditions for disability have been met, no emphasis can be placed on how the medical disability affects future income opportunities.’ Proposal No. 58 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider the establishment and operation of rest areas and other measures relating to national tourist roads in response to tenders to private operators.’;» Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to transfer responsibility for the E45 Klöfta to New Roads.’ Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to establish its own extension part of the State Road Administration, which will have the same framework conditions as the road company Nye Weger.’ Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The government requests the closure of the Special Nursing Standard with the extension of 2/3 field path and the construction of narrow four-field road as a new standard.’ Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to establish new road standards that are in line with what is available in Sweden and Denmark.’ Proposal No. 64 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to reclassify the county roads transferred in the context of the administrative reform.’ Proposal No. 66 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to wind up the arrangements with both ongoing and new initiatives for urban growth agreements and urban packages’.» Proposal No. 67 sounds: «The government is asked to establish new grant schemes for investments in large collective projects and the operation of public transport as an alternative. Premise whether the zero growth target and tolls shall be closed.’» Proposal No. 68 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of the E6 Oslo East and to start work on a government plan for the project.’ Proposal No. 69 sounds: ‘The government is asked to work on the construction of a new Røa tunnel on Fv. 168 will be serviced and the long tunnel option will be taken into account.’» Proposal No. 72 sounds: ‘The Government requests the completion of the project E6 Transfarelv Bruch in 2022.’ Proposal No. 76 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to provide E134 Dagslett – Linnes once the municipal plans have been adopted.’ Proposal No. 77 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a 50 pst reduction in the rates of national and county road ferries. compared to tariff level on 1 January 2021.’» Proposal No. 80 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to transfer responsibility for the State TT scheme to Nav’. Proposal No. 83 sounds: «The government is asking for a ceiling on the property tax levied of NOK 3000 per unit until the tax is removed in its entirety.» Proposal No. 84 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner, with an overview of how the Coronapandemy and the cultural strike have affected the profits of cultural institutions, and what is done about this.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e6833	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 85, 88, 90, 92 and 95 to 106 from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 85 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider including commercial subcontractors in sport and sport at large in the compensation scheme in the cultural field.’ Proposal No. 88 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to put forward proposals to increase the amount limit on how much can be saved in the name of minors.’ Proposal No. 90 sounds: ‘The government is asked to file a case in such a way as to provide full compensation, including for the bonding of agricultural property, where private property is protected by the State.’ Proposal No. 92 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a case to actively reduce the backlog in the financing of sports facilities over the games.’ Proposal No. 95 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to liquidate the toll debt of the Urban Package Bergen and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 96 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to liquidate the toll debt of the Urban Package Bodø and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 97 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to liquidate the toll in the Urban Package Lower Glomma and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 98 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to liquidate the toll in the Urban Package North-Jear and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 99 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to liquidate the toll debt of the Bømlo package and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 100 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to liquidate the toll debt of E134 Damåsen-Saggrenda and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 101 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to liquidate the toll in E16 Bjørum-Skaret and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 102 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to liquidate the toll debt of E16 Eggemoen-Jevnaker-Olum and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 103 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to liquidate the toll in E16 Fønhus-Bagn-Bjørgo and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 104 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to liquidate the toll in E16 Kongsvinger-Slomarka and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 105 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to liquidate the toll debt of the E18 Gulli–Langangang and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 106 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to liquidate the toll debt of E18 Langangen-Dørdal and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e6928	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 107 to 140, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 107 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to liquidate the toll in E18 Tvedestrand-Arendal and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 108 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to liquidate the toll in the E39 Kristiansand West-Lwigal West and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context.’ Proposal No. 109 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to liquidate the toll debt of E39 Rogfast and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 110 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to liquidate the toll debt of the E39 Svegatjørn–Rådal and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 111 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to liquidate the toll in E6 Gardermoen-Colomoen and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 112 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to liquidate the toll in E6 Hålogalandsbrua and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 113 sounds like: ‘The Government is asking the Government to liquidate the toll debt of E6 Kolomoen-Moelv and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 114 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to liquidate the toll in E6 Korgen-Bolna and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» [[Helgeland North]] Proposal No. 115 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to liquidate the toll in E6 Nord-Trøndelag border – Korg and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» [[Helgeland south]] Proposal No. 116 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to liquidate the toll debt of E6 Ringebu-Otta and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» [[Frya-Sjoa section]] Proposal No. 117 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to liquidate the toll debt of E6 Trondheim – Stjørdal and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 118 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to liquidate the toll in E6 Vindåsliene – Korporalsbrua and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 119 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to liquidate the toll debt of E6 Øyer-Treet and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 120 sounds: «The Government is asked to liquidate the toll in the Fosen package and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context.» Proposal No. 121 reads: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate the toll due in Fv. 108 New Hooker Island Connection and use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context.» Proposal No. 122 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate the toll due in Fv. 17/ fv. 720 Tierstad-Sprova-Malm and use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context.’;» Proposal No. 123 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate the toll due in Fv. 33 Skardtjernet-Tonsvatnet and Bjørgokreiset-Lower Eyeguard and use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context.» Proposal No. 124 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate the toll due in Fv. 546 Austevollsbrua and use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context.» Proposal No. 125 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate the toll due in Fv. 659 Nordøyvegen and use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context.» Proposal No. 126 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate the toll due in Fv. 714 Stokkhaugen-Sunde and use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context.» Proposal No. 127 sounds like: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate the toll due in Fv. 78 The main tunnel m/routes of supply and use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context.’» Proposal No. 128 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate the toll due in Fv. 858 Rya connection and use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context.» Proposal No. 129 reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to liquidate the toll in the Quamma package and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 130 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to liquidate the toll in the Nordhordland package and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 131 reads: ‘The decision requests the Government to liquidate the toll debt of Oslopak 3 and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 132 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate the toll in Rv. 13 Rugged and used funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context.» Proposal No. 133 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate the toll in Rv. 3/rev. 25 Ommensvolen – Grundrunset/Basthørnet and use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context.’;» Proposal No. 134 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate the toll in Rv. 36 Bø-Seljord and use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context.’;» Proposal No. 135 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate the toll in Rv. 36 Slaughterhouse-Years and use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context.’.» Proposal No. 136 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate the toll in Rv. 4 Lunner border – Jar and Lygna south and use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context.» Proposal No. 137 sounds like: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate the toll in Rv. 7 Sokna-Örgenvika and use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context.’.» Proposal No. 138 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate the toll in Rv. 7/rev. 13 Hardangerbrua and use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context.’;» Proposal No. 139 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to settle the toll in the Harstad Road Package and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.» Proposal No. 140 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate the toll in Vossapakko and to use the funds allocated to the Infrastructure Fund in this context’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e7116	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16, 20, 29, 34, 38, 39, 48, 73 and 91, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a stem cell treatment scheme in Norway and/or to help purchase it abroad.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government requests the launch of a municipal pilot project during 2022, where older people living at home can order food delivered on the door at a cost’. Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a ranking with objective criteria for which new schools and new buildings in the education sector should be given priority.’; Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up proposals for the right to negotiate with the Association of Advocates for the establishment of a salary and a piece price scheme.’ Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a contingency plan to pay travel and absence time in free legal aid cases equal to the salary paid by hours worked.’ Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to draw up legislative amendments that give free legal aid to both parties in the child distribution case if a party is granted free legal aid, with an upper income limit of SEK 1500 000 gross.’ Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The government is asked to notify the conditions for SMEs and to propose simplifications to facilitate the start-up, operation and investment of small enterprises.’ Proposal No. 73 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to stop the project E18/E39 Gartnerløkka – Kolsdalen i Agder’. Proposal No. 91 reads: ‘The government asks for VAT deductions when private expenditure on necessary maintenance and restoration of cultural heritage is incurred.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e7176	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3, 4, 10, 21, 22, 32, 36, 40, 46, 55, 61, 65, 70, 74, 75, 78, 79, 81, 82 and 87, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider several measures that may contribute to lower electricity costs for households in particular, such as exemption from electricity taxes and VAT on electricity for the first 20000 kilowatt-hours. A review of the various measures and consequences is requested to be initiated immediately and presented to the Grand Duchy at the latest in the context of the revised State budget 2022.’» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to assess the economic impact on the country and business of reducing VAT on food from 15 p.m. to 12 p.m., but also what effect this could have to counter border trade. It is also requested to assess the non-taxable treatment of food and the consequences of also reducing the level of food tax to the same level.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the investigation work be completed by means of a GPS-based toll collection.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to keep today’s self-interest card for health services of NOK 2460.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to clarify the responsibilities between the police and the health services for the mentally ill.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a sample to make an overall assessment of the rates and funding system in higher vocational education [[tertiary schools]] Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review police training with a focus on increasing the practical elements of education.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to strengthen the net pay system by removing all ceilings on the different ship segments permanently and retaining the model grant for cargo ships in NIS on international voyages’.» Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The Government asked the Government to establish a recycling fund for offshore vessels in Norwegian waters, with a view to reducing emissions, to create more activity in Norwegian shipyards and to improve the economy of the maritime industry.’ Proposal No. 55 sounds: «The government asks the government to file a case on the matter. 19 Moss port with State full financing.’ Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘The government is asked to wind up today’s toll scheme and to provide State full infrastructure financing.’ Proposal No. 65 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to determine which of the routes are of major economic importance and which can be reclassified as highways.’ Proposal No. 70 sounds: ‘The government requests the winding-up of the toll due by using the funds set aside in the Infrastructure Fund.’ Proposal No. 74 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure the improvement of the entrance to the port of Borg.’ Proposal No. 75 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to ensure progress in the planning of R & D. 19 Moss port and forward start-up.» Proposal No. 78 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the project to be completed by deepening the entrance to Mo in Rana Port and ensuring its start-up as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 79 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to proceed with the project of deepening Ballstad port and ensuring progress as soon as the port control plan is adopted.’; Proposal No. 81 sounds: «The government asks the government to ensure that funds allocated under the cap. 1320 for highways for eartag road purposes.» Proposal No. 82 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to stop setting up toll collection in the context of the Ålesund urban package and to replace unmet financing needs with government funds.’ Proposal No. 87 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan to provide the municipalities with sufficient resources to provide adequate after-care for child-restraint children up to the age of 25’. Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e7293	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12, 13, 15, 19, 23, 25–28, 30, 31, 41, 43, 45, 47, 53, 56, 57, 71, 86, 89, 93 and 94, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government in its proposal for a revised national budget for 2022 to provide an assessment of the need for improvements to the landing sites in the emergency hospitals to ensure that the new rescue helicopters can use them.’; Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government requests the conclusion of contracts for medicinal products with Norwegian pharmaceutical manufacturers rather than non-residents in order to ensure Norwegian emergency production of important medicinal products.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that elderly people in hospital or receiving home services receive the dental treatment they require.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The budget requires the government to submit an obligatory escalation plan in the context of the revised national budget for 2022 in order to ensure more nurses, caregivers, specialised nurses, midwives and health professionals in the years to come. The plan shall include proposals for various measures contributing to recruitment and ensuring adequate competent hands and heads in the health and care services.’;» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to instruct Statnett to use alternative two when renewing the link between Hamang in Bærum and Smestad in Oslo, as part of the Oslo Network.’ [[cable in ditch]] Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the use of the grant to student housing for the rehabilitation of old dwellings.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the existing bullying agencies in the counties, is asking the government to include municipal bullying agents more effectively in national anti- bullying work, and to facilitate the establishment of this for several municipalities.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a stepping-up plan for upper secondary vocational education.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to take the initiative to link the study aid to G, which today corresponds to approximately 1.25 G, and in the long term increase it to 1.5 G.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a sample to look at the ‘Eastfold model’ for learning candidates with needs for organisation, developed by ASVL. [[Markussen, Grögaard and Hjetland 2018]] Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with municipalities, health companies and private hospitals to establish committed cooperation on adequate places of practice for nurses and medical students in education.’ Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The Government requests the continuation of the Norwegian Offshore Condemnation Scheme in 2022 so that redundant and old vessels can be recycled in an environmentally friendly manner by Norwegian shipyards.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The government is asked to keep the financial framework for Norecopa at least the same level as in 2021 and to ensure, within the framework of the government’s draft government budget, sufficient funding for a full position for the Secretariat of Norecopa in addition to operating funds of 500 000 kroner.’ Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘However, the government asks for 2 million. kronor to a new application-based grant scheme for municipalities that will enable young people to gain experience in fishing based on the Gamvik model.’ Proposal No. 47 sounds: «The government is asked to follow up the comment of a unanimous increase in the consideration of the budget for 2021 on new industrial developments in the wood industry, as well as the majority decision of the revised national budget in 2021, which granted 25 million. kroner for the circular economy project where the cleaning of return trees was specifically mentioned. It is important that the will of the Storting is followed by the government, so that new industrial initiatives, such as Forestia’s planned facilities for the purification of returns, are supported as necessary to develop new circular economy industries.’ Proposal No. 53 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals to ensure that persons who have previously been granted assistance from the public interest, if necessary and entitled to renewal, are provided with equivalent means of assistance, if not substantially more expensive, as they already have.’ Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘The government is asking for safe progress in the intercity development of the Westfold and Dovrebanen in 2022.’ Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that underrun protection is fitted on county road sections which are particularly vulnerable to MC.’ Proposal No. 71 sounds: «The government asks the safe rescue car to Rennfast in line with the Stortinge decision in the budget for 2021. The service is established in an appropriate manner and is purchased, if necessary, from a private operator in the car storage market.» Proposal No. 86 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with proposals to amend the VAT compensation scheme for sport, volunteering and culture, so that it is governed instead of the framework grant.’ Proposal No. 89 sounds: «The government asks the government to simplify the rules for self-employed artists.» Proposal No. 93 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose that the VAT compensation scheme be duly established.’ Proposal No. 94 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that funds and VAT compensation for sports facilities be paid as soon as the installation has received a permit to use and approved installation accounts.’;» The Greens and the Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e7426	There is a vote on proposal No. 285, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to be informed by the government and to propose a ceiling for the income tax on land interest tax from the power industry. In addition to this ceiling, interest-rate income on rent is assumed to be distributed again to residents of Norway. ‘... Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e7443	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 286 and 287 by the Greens. Proposal No. 286 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to use next year’s extraordinary income from State power and to increase its basic interest income from the power industry to then pay out a cash amount equal to NOK 2000 per person. The amount is assumed to be paid out early in January.» Proposal No. 287 sounds: «The government is asked to be investigated by the government and to propose a ceiling on the income of the State from the dividend payment by the State. Dividends in addition to this ceiling are to be distributed again to people living in Norway.’ The Progress Party and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e7468	There is a vote on proposal No. 280, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The deficit requests that increased income to the country as a result of high electricity prices, including increased dividends, increased VAT revenue and other electricity-related taxes, should be paid directly to households as an immediate measure against the high electricity prices and, where appropriate, as an immediate measure of energy efficiency in households.’; The Group of the Greens/European Progressive Democrats and the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e7485	There is a vote on proposal No. 279, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to pay $4,000 in cash support to all its households to compensate for the very high electricity costs. This shall also include separate rental units with their own current measurement point. This shall be paid as soon as possible and no later than the end of 2021. The proposal for containment is incorporated into the 2021 effusion.» The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e7502	There is a vote on proposal No. 281, from the Right, Left, and Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I Framework Decision
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e7767	There is a vote on proposal No. 282, from the Right, the Left, and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a targeted and socially structured financial support scheme for Norwegian households and students as soon as possible to compensate for abnormally high electricity prices, so that this can be paid as early as possible in 2022. The scheme should be targeted at those who work the most. This can, for example, be achieved through a limit based on household income and an aid amount increasing by the size of the household. Outlying students shall receive an increase in their scholarship of at least NOK 1000.’» The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e7784	There is a vote on proposal No. 283, from the Right, the Left, and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that, in the light of the severe current situation, Enova makes available a minimum of SEK 300 million for measures in households and for consumers, in line with the governance agreement on the management of the funds from the climate and energy fund.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e7802	There is a vote on proposal No. 277, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘ I Framework Decision
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e8074	There is a vote on proposal No. 278, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the Government: 1. take the view that, as far as possible, tenders in county ferry and boat services shall be based on zero-emission technology and compensate counties for the additional costs involved; 2. provide export finance Norway with a clear climate and environmental mandate, establish its own programme for the export of Norwegian, green technology and competences and report it back to Stortinget in an appropriate manner; 3. Ensure that Investinor continues to invest in the pre-seed phase 4. assess different instruments that can contribute to rapid emission reductions for large industrial point emissions, including the system of contracts for differences; 5. develop a plan with a set of measures to reduce energy use in construction by at least 10 TWh in 2030 and increase electricity generation in construction. The plan shall be presented in the context of the State budget 2023. 6. consider transferring responsibility for the work ofincreased measures of known and tried-and-tested technology and own electricity production in households to the House Bank byrevised 2022 and ensuring that Enova uses the 300 million-SEK framework to households resulting from the Enova agreement, in addition to 100 million-SEK from the agreement between the parties, and in the State budget for 2023 explain the work of increasing domestic action. 7. assess schemes supporting the establishment of local energy production, energy efficiency improvement and the establishment of charging infrastructure in housing law; 8. identified and put forward proposals on how to equate GA vehicles running on biogas with electric and hydrogen-powered cars in the bombings as soon as possible and during 2022. 9. make proposals for exemptions from user charges for blends of fuel with 100 per cent advanced biofuels and notify back to the Storting in the context of the revised national budget 2022; 10. Exploratory proposals for zero emissions and fossil-free construction sites in public tenders, during 2022 11. issued a ban on the use of fossil fuels in construction sites and notified back to Stortinget at the latest in the context of the revised national budget 2022 12. issued a directive on zero emission solutions for service vessels in the aquaculture industry 13. in the revised national budget of 2022, propose measures to increase the electricity car share in the leasing market and in the motor vehicle market, including concrete proposals that will have immediate effect in 2022, in order to prevent those markets from becoming a barrier to achieving the objective of zero-emission vehicles for all new passenger cars and light goods vehicles in 2025. The investigation shall look at the removal of tax advantages for cars with emissions into the leasing market, aid schemes for electric cars, and the CO2 component of the one-off charge for commercial vehicles with internal combustion engines, it shall further consider whether or not the aid schemes for electric cars can be intervened to provide operators with enhanced and more equal benefits to private individuals. 14. establish a national scheme for the environmental discount on electric cars when paying for tolls; 15. assessed the possibility of amending the Planning and Building Act in order to ensure that municipalities are allowed to impose zero emissions or fossil-free sites in planning regulations 16. Determined how to replace fossil fuels in industry and come back to the Storting during 2022 17. concluded an agreement on climate change with the petroleum industry to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian oil and gas production, including appropriate instruments to accelerate conversion on Norwegian base. This agreement shall ensure that CO2 emissions from oil production on the cap shall not exceed a fixed emission ceiling: 18. do not announce a new ordinary concession round on Norwegian base in 2022 [[26th concession round]] 19. from the 2023 budget, report systematically on knowledge available on any significant impact on greenhouse gas emissions of proposals promoted on road and rail investment. 20. Meet the target of 10 pst. marine protection of coastal and marine areas by 2030 and promoting national marine protection plan; 21. Ensure that the State Road Service and New Roads AS use the action space in road normals to ensure that the loss of food and nature is kept as low as possible, as well as to ensure that the costs of expansion and tolls are kept down; 22. take initiatives towards the State Vegvesen to implement measures and regulations in dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo that can reduce the local noise and pollution load for residents along the Riksvegen 4 between Sinsen and Grorud 23. towards the 2023 state budget comes back with an assessment of the NTP road portfolio in order to ensure effective implementation and follow-up of climate objectives. The review shall also assess road standards, including a higher traffic volume threshold for the construction of four-field motorways 24. ensure a full KVU for the North Norway runway to be part of the basis for the next NTP; 25. facilitate the realisation of large scale green hydrogen production. 26. engage in dialogue with industry and investigate how Norwegian ammonia production can be electrified 27. Returning to Stortinget with a separate case on urban living conditions by the end of 2022, the matter shall, inter alia, consider the proposal of the Jensen Committee. 28. reverse the planned change to turn the national resource environment grant scheme into a purely application-based scheme instead of a named scheme 29. present an obligatory and temporal plan during 2022 to close the income gap between farmers and other groups in society. The revenue gap shall be dense irrespective of the size of use, production and part of the country: 30. obtained a base deduction from the electricity charge so that it is possible to protect those with low consumption from high electricity prices 31. to carry out a thorough evaluation of the current NOKUS tax regime during 2022, including an assessment of how this scheme interacts with with with withholding taxes 32. from the state budget in 2023, report distribution and inequality on the basis of more parameters than today. Owner income shall be included in the reporting as soon as practicable. Reporting shall contribute to the achievement of the objective of reducing financial inequalities: 33. as from the 2023 government budget, estimates of the diversity of assets in Norway, which also seek to include asset items that are currently undervalued in property statistics with their real market value. 34. change the method of valuation of expensive dwellings so that the valuation better matches the real market value of the properties; 35. Examining the use of business blanks and property-purchasing obligations 36. that a regulation on extended country-by-country reporting is designed in such a way that companies are obliged to disclose the size of their accounts for all countries, including countries where no tax is paid 37. intensify efforts towards international tax adaptations and tax evasion by actively promoting effective multilateral solutions in international forums and implementing necessary solutions and measures in the Norwegian tax system; 38. explore the possibilities for further action against tax adaptation, in addition to the OECD/Inclusive Framework consensus solution on changes in the distribution of tax law and minimum tax [[two-pillar solution]] 40. assessed a model of redistributive compensation for increased environmental taxes within the State budget for 2023 41. establish by March 2022 a public sample to determine how commercial operations can be phased out in different tax-funded welfare services and provide a separate zero profit model for each such sector. The committee shall also propose a legal definition for non-profit-making modes of operation: 42. promote the necessary measures to ensure greater transparency and transparency in the activities of private providers of publicly funded welfare services, including a public register of all private enterprises providing publicly funded welfare services; 43. Exploratory proposals to require companies providing publicly funded welfare services to be organised in their own legal entities where no activity other than publicly funded welfare services is permitted 44. in regulations and legislative proposals introduce notification obligations to the municipality when ownership of kindergartens in the municipality is transferred to persons other than the state or county of the property and how a right of pre-emption for municipalities can be established 45. promote the necessary proposals to reintroduce the right of municipalities to supervise private kindergartens, including providing municipalities with access to all financial facilities in kindergartens in the municipality receiving grants; 46. put forward proposals to amend the Social Services Act to keep child benefit out of the scope of the calculation of economic social assistance, with a view to its entry into force on 1 September; 47. make the change in the grant of housing aid so that more with low incomes and high housing costs receive housing support and so that housing aid covers a greater part of the housing charge; 48. ensure that among the objectives promoted by institutions receiving a full grant from the State, or through a 70/30 division, institutions are also included in the lead in order to ensure a safe working life, with particular emphasis on permanent employment and copyright protection; 49. put forward proposals for a new law on support for legal aid during the spring of 2023, and consider various measures that could strengthen the legal aid system for the population, including the proposals of NOU 2020:5; 50. review the Code on Clearance of Work and come back to Stortinget with proposals to ensure that persons who receive redundancy benefits are extended if they are not completed by the Nav or Health Service; 51. launch an investigation into the status of dental services in Norway, including social and geographical differences in use and access, reasons for differences, the relationship between private and public supply, and differences in prices and treatment; 52. set up a sample to make proposals to ensure that dental services are treated in the same way as other healthcare services, including self-employment models; 53. identify what are the main challenges for practical training in both practical and aesthetic subjects and other subjects in school, and get back to the Stortinget in an appropriate way. The monitoring must assess, inter alia, the competence, physical facilities and equipment situation, in particular in the practical and aesthetic fields. 54. consider proposals for changes to the Planning and Building Act that student housing becomes a separate purpose in municipal land plans by the end of 2022. 55. come back with proposals for a permanent holiday supplement scheme for earned daily allowance in 2022. 56. implement a pilot scheme in Oslo with a technical solution to ensure the notoriety of personal checks carried out by the police if the person checked is to be registered. The system shall allow the stopping party to receive confirmation of the check: 57. maintain current activity requirements in royal crab fish of NOK 200000; 58. Earmark 2 million dollars under the cap. 900, heading 75 of a new national application-based grant scheme for municipalities that will enable young people to gain experience in fishing 59. ensure that investment funds contribute to the realisation of the unbundling requirement for small and medium-sized applications’;» The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e8274	There is a vote on proposal No. 284, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for swift return to the Storting with possible measures that can reduce the financial burden on households in the short term and in particular look at measures that can relieve groups that are particularly hard hit by exceptional high electricity prices.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e8318	Furthermore, the following were set: III Report. St. 1 [[2021-2022]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e8367	The President proposes that the proposal be sent to the Energy and Environment Committee. The representative, Frank Edvard Sve, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e8374	The signatures, with several, present this Document 8 proposal to look at both cabling to the rest of the world and not least the export charges in force. A little bit of the point was the hasty basis, the return of December 15 to the Stortinget. That is why we want one to vote on whether or not the proposal should be dealt with urgently.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e8379	The size then goes to voting on the procedure for referencing point 150. Alternatively, between the President’s proposal to send the proposal to the Energy and Environment Committee and the representative of Frank Edvard Sves, the proposal for urgent procedure under point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39 is rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e8393	Further references were made: 7th@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by Jan Tore Sanner, Henrik Asheim, Haarek Elvenes, Tore Vamraak, Nikolai Astrup, Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde and Mudasar Kapur on an external quality assurance of the calculations of the socio-economic impact of the interconnection of power transmission between Bærum and Oslo (Document 8:39 S [[151]] [[2021-2022]] Onest. : To be sent to the Energy and Environment Committee. Eight. Representative proposal by Sofie Marhaug to stop planned increases in electricity charges (Document 8:44 S [[152]] [[2021-2022]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e8405	The President proposes that the proposal be sent to the Energy and Environment Committee. The representative, Sofie Marhaug, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e8412	I ask that the proposal be dealt with urgently, in line with paragraph 39, second paragraph, point (c) of the Rules of Procedure, and that we vote against it. If that proposal falls, I would ask that it be dealt with as soon as possible in the Committee, because it concerns changes to the rules in force from 1 January.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e8417	The size then goes to voting on the procedure for referencing point 152. Alternatively, the President's proposal to send the proposal to the Energy and Environment Committee and to the representative Sofie Marhaug's proposal for urgent procedure under point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39 shall be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-02.ana.ud122e8432	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
