ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e67	The representative, Karianne B, has once again taken the seat. From the meeting of the alternate of Oslo, Nora Jungeilges Heyerdahl, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Rasmus Hansson from 16 December until further notice, cf. Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy § 5, second sentence. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The fourth alternate of Oslo, Arne Olav Haabeth, is convened to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e95	Arne Olav Haabeth is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1 to 4 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e150	The cases are the second reading of laws and relate to the legal decisions of 7–10. No one has asked to speak on the matter. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e168	The President will organise the debate as follows: The debate is divided into two sections to deal first with the budget chapters of the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Finance: common and minority policies, public administration, privacy, housing policy, framework transfers to municipalities, district and regional policies. The budget chapters of the Ministry of Justice and Security and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs are then discussed: immigration and integration. The number of part 1 of the debate will be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes, and it will be distributed as follows: the working party 25 minutes, the right 20 minutes, the centre party 15 minutes, the progress party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Red 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Green 5 minutes and the Christian People's Party 5 minutes. The number of part 2 of the debate will be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes, and it will be distributed as follows: the working party 15 minutes, the right 15 minutes, the centre party 10 minutes, the progress party 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Red 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Green 5 minutes and the Christian People's Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time of each part of the debate, there will be a succession of up to five lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies from members of the government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e183	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation on the budget – and a special thanks to the Central Party and the Conciliation Party. For today we adopt a budget after a settlement concluded between the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV, a budget which is a change in Erna Solberg's last budget. I am happy and proud of the result we have on the table today. Everything will not be perfect, all problems will not be solved today – we have had eight weeks in government – but I am proud of the budget. This budgetary agreement shows that we listen to ordinary people all over the country. We are in the process of turning the differential policy and turning the centralisation lever into a fairer and needy policy. The State and the Community shall provide small, medium-sized and large municipalities. We have young people, young people, adults and older people who need a stronger welfare state. There are formidable tasks in the years to come, especially with demographic challenges. We become many more older, and the care and care services in particular need to be enriched to meet the needs locally. There are also major challenges for children and young people when it comes to mental health, we have a fixed crisis to solve, and there are major recruitment needs in welfare. In the budgetary agreement between the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV, there is considerable investment in welfare. Several of the unsocial cut-offs of the Solberg government stand for, are reversed, and together we give priority to three parties important welfare initiatives such as free core time in the SFO for first-class, cheaper kindergarten and dental improvement, which provide ordinary people with lower costs for more and better well-being. To deliver a strength of 4.5 billion. NOK for the municipalities in 2022 in total is a solid bet. It will be marked in many communities. After the draft state budget was known and the agreement was clear, there was a spokesman who called me from a municipality in North Norway and said: There was a hospital mountain – a hospital home that was supposed to lie down. It means that we invest as solidly as we do, in well-being and municipalities. District policy must be strengthened. The challenges of urban life must be taken seriously. The government is going to do both, and I'm very glad that the budget agreement clearly says that in the next year the government will come to the Stortinget with a matter of living conditions in the cities, where a follow-up to the Jensen selection proposal. This is also a government that is leading the country in the future. Today, we propose, among other things: own larger green investments to increase employment in the districts. We have a clear commitment to broadband, which is very important because we want people to be able to live and work in all of Norway. We have as our goal in the government party that access to high-speed broadband should be a straight line of stream. The budget that the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV are behind today is a budget for both the city and the country. Oslo, which is the capital, here we are today, gets an increase of a quarter of a billion in their free income. We're strengthening the area bet. We take care of a reinforced housing policy by strengthening the House Bank, so that several thousand families can get help from rent-to-ownership with start-up loans. The targeted regional and regional policy instruments amount to 1.26 billion. kr, which is an increase of 9 pst. in relation to the proposals of the Solberg Government. The budget we are adopting today, as the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV are behind, is a very good budget for ordinary people across Norway, for both the city and the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e202	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e207	One of the most important things our local politicians and all the good employees out in Municipality-Norway and County-Norway do is to make sure to provide good services to people – and especially now when very many feel that when they were finally up in maybe not much more than kneeling after a long pandemic, they once again go into difficult times. At the same time, we see a government simply asking local politicians, in both counties and municipalities, to use its time to reverse important reforms instead of spending their time dealing with the pandemic. One has a business life, and many good employees and many local politicians standing between these two choices. What does the representative of the Workers' Party think is the most important thing now, just over the New Year, in the eight weeks up to this deadline, that we should deal with the pandemic, or work with reversals?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e212	I have more confidence in local politicians than the right-wing representative seems to have. Local politicians in very many countries are now looking forward to being able to send their application, so that they can resolve, for example, the problem of drug use. the coercion of the county they are part of. The fact that the municipalities are now in a demanding time, there is no doubt about it. There the government sets up, both when it comes to money and compensation. We are now going into a year when the municipalities may get the largest economic space they've had in many, many years. It's very important, because the most important thing to do in the municipalities is to provide people with good welfare services. And then I don't think our local politicians aren't going to do them at the same time that one might want to get rid of a coercion imposed on them by the right-wing government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e217	Thanks for the answer. I fully agree that local politicians should be trusted, and local politicians have reported quite clearly, at least for the time being, that they do not want – nor do they see the point of – to use time now to reverse important reforms. The tour that both the Minister of Finance and, perhaps, the Minister of Municipal Affairs have been on, where they have tried to start the reversal, has been first and foremost met with: Let's be alone, we want to continue with the reform, we want to continue to do good services. There are not so many who have now decided to send applications to reverse, and it is very good to see. I have at least registered a preliminary stomach patch, and then we will see what happens in this reversal work further. I support local politicians in this. Finally, a question about the ABE reform: the government parties have always opposed it, but now they choose to continue it. What have you discovered now that you didn't understand in eight years?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e226	The ABE reform on the right is perhaps the best example of a belief that Kommune-Noreg is a business, and that if people jump faster, whether it's in the courts, at universities or in the criminal services, it'll be more effective. The ABE reform has clearly warned the government party that we want to remove, but eight weeks is a short time to make such a big change. If the representative is interested, he can see that in the budget within the municipal area, and in other areas, we have solid increases in welfare services and to other parts of the state that prove many of these cuts. It's going to take longer for the government than eight weeks to remove the entire ABE reform. But let there be no doubt: one such kind of efficiency reform, with flat cut, the way the right government has done, has the frame of the front line and the societal mission of a lot of people in the state, and it has us as ready ambition to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e231	The representative is talking about the fact that someone now has started listening to ordinary people, and that's wise. For example, ordinary people have children in kindergarten. In connection with the presentation of the draft budget, I visited a number of kindergartens, and they told me one thing: they're going to meet more and more times because they're being subjected to a huge cut. Many of the private kindergartens have been struggling with underwear this year. The next year, it looks even worse because they get a significant cut in their pension costs. Seeing a whole picture, there's a lot of concern about how the future will be, because the government considers pension expenditure to be a factor and doesn't see the rest of the picture, that it is, for example. are delays in the time they receive corresponding support as in the municipality. So it's pretty hard to run private kindergartens. My question is, why is a nursery place for ordinary people with the cut that the government party is now behind?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e236	This is what the representative from the Progress Party actually knows the answer to. Private kindergartens should not be covered by non-hazardary pension expenditure. The government is very clear that we want to get a better regulation for the kindergarten sector. We want municipalities to be more able to finance and impose requirements on private kindergartens. The most important thing for us is that the money going to the kindergarten sector benefits the kids. There are Hurdal platforms crystal clear. I am also very proud of the municipal structure we get for 2022, which will put the municipalities in a much better position than during the years that the Progress Party was the support wheel for right-wing government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e241	The representative is right that I knew the answer to that. I recognized the flatness of the Ministry of Finance to explain this. That rhetoric does not go home to those who have their children in private kindergartens, and who are happy with the offer, that they receive less money for pensions when they have received less transfers than the municipality itself spends on its own kindergartens. If we had remunerated all kindergartens in Norway, it would have cost the state 2-3 billion. kr more - to provide a service that users are less satisfied with than they are with the private. Is it the goal of the Workers' Party and of the Government Party, that one should end with private kindergartens and only have municipals, and then spend 2-3 billion. kr more on kindergarten, without getting better services for ordinary people?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e247	No, by no means. The aim of the Labour Party is to ensure good kindergartens for all young people throughout the country and to ensure that the community's money benefits the young. There is no doubt that when the previous red-green government started with the baby hail lift, we were totally dependent on the private kindergartens contributing. Now we are a place where we have full child care coverage, and where it is important for the government to ensure that the money benefits the young, and that municipalities can have more control over both funding and child care requirements in their municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e252	The representative Vågslid said in his post that she was so pleased that the hospital home was now being mountained, she had heard that from a municipality. Yeah, I think that's good if that happens. But there is a diversity around Municipality-Norway, and some of it that is diverse, is also that the government wants to abolish the temporary employment agencies. There is no doubt that within the care system there is a major challenge in having enough health professionals and enough nurse training, even though from the previous government we also wanted to have more continuing training and more sophisticated education. What helps a lot of this if you are not willing to take action to get more health professionals in primary care? Because it doesn't help if a mountainer has a nursing home, if you don't have anyone to serve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e257	I have not heard a call from any municipality or added to the care services that they want more temporary work, more temporary work, more part-time work. What I'm saying, and what the Labour Party and the Center Party clearly have in their government platform, is for the first time, we want to make sure that we have a real full-time promise, where we have to be able to turn the evidence around in terms of who's responsible for making sure it's all the time. We want whole, fixed positions, so people have a salary to live on. I don't think we can recruit all we need in the health sector if carrots are to be small or vicariate, so I guess the Left Party and the Working Party have quite different input to the problem. We need to make sure that we have a healthy, stable position and a living wage, and a local economy that enables us to deliver the best welfare services to the caring elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e262	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e267	After eight years with a civil government, Norway has a good starting point for conversion. The Norwegian economy has become greener and less oil dependent, competitiveness has been strengthened, and we have become more digitised. I would like to stress here today that the Solberg Government's draft budget for 2022 is largely supported by the Stortinget. It has some unsocial tax increases and some other things – which we are going to come back to afterwards – from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, but basically the budget remains. It's based on creating more and including more. It was therefore with great excitement that we were going to look at how the government, together with SV, would build further on the budget, and when we have the budgetary agreement ahead of us, we see that there are still no answers to the major challenges facing Norway. The right is occupied with the best possible use of resources. Therefore, the Right will continue to prioritise the modernisation and digitisation of the public sector in our work in the future. Both the policy and the draft budget to the government point in a different direction. In fact, they are seen to be rates on the following performance projects: creating more public sector, creating more county municipalities and more administrations. The new government wants local politicians, trade unions and the business community to spend their time reversing rather than development. It's quite amazing that in 2021 we have a government that essentially dreams of changing the map of Norway back to the 1960s. Norway shall undergo a major conversion. We have to get more legs to stand on and create the values before they can be shared. Municipalities play a crucial role here. Cooperation between large cities and the surrounding districts is important for the development of the different parts of the country, for both business, jobs, infrastructure and housing development. Good regional and district policies provide more diversity and thus also more growth and value creation across the country. Since 2013, the free income of municipalities has increased by about 35 billion. kr. Free income means more trust in local self-government. We have implemented reforms that we see providing better services, while improving the efficiency of Community funds. These are reforms that you now see that the government will reverse. The government we now have in place has said that they should carry out a trust reform. In practice, they show no more than distrust of the country’s inhabitants and its municipalities, and it is reflected in a budgetary settlement marked by expensive ideas and poor solutions for the country. We knew that it would be SV's task to set direction on the budget, and they have done so. They've pulled the government to the left. I allow myself to spend at least a little bit of the last time talking about the settlement in its entirety from an economic perspective, and not least given the difficult situation the country is in now. An entire business life, which was kneeling from before, finds that instead of getting a little breathing room, they get increased taxes. It is quite amazing that in just a few days and weeks, government parties and SV were able to set up the tax bill for both businesses and people, mostly with several billion dollars, but that they are now fully behind in helping the same groups with accurate compensation schemes. We have seen that in the debate on housing support, electricity and the business compensation system. I hope the government will be more forward-looking in the future. Of course, we in the Right will continue to contribute constructively to finding good solutions for those who experience difficult times throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e286	There has been a long debate on so-called 'new public management' and, in the case of the state and the municipality, they are driven more and more by market-oriented principles. The Labour Party and also the Centre Party are committed to reverse this development and, as the representative referred to in his statement, we have, among other things. alert a trust reform. Victor Norman, Professor and former Right-State Council, came in 2019 with the book “Not for Competition”. In this book, he mentions the uncritical use of market-economy manipulation and management tools in the public sector. One would believe that also the Right saw the difference in producing toothpaste and delivering complex welfare services to the caregiver, but my question is whether the Right and the representative sees, as Professor Norman, that the Solberg government no leave behind a public sector that is too predominated by market thinking and detailed management.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e293	First, we in the Right are most interested in discussing the content of services, what it means for people's lives, than what concept is used. If you use English words like ‘new public management’, which the Labour Party chooses to call it to have confidence in those who work in the service, or whether it is actually about trust, which the Right in the Government provided, is going to be their case. What is important is that inviting private people to join in providing good services is primarily about putting the whole country into use and using all the good people who work in the different sectors, whether it's healthcare, whether it's private care, or whether it's kindergarten. The most important thing we have done is to ensure that, through important reforms, we have reduced public expenditure and have more private actors, so that through less use of money, we can now deliver better services and better products. I could still do some more examples, but I know that time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e300	Thanks for the answer. There's not a completely unexpected answer, because there's an ideological difference between the Labour Party and the Right in this area. To take a concrete example: when, for example: Those who are admitted to childhood and youth psychiatry, today spend a lot of time on reporting and bureaucracy, do the representative think it's the right time to use it? Or does the representative agree with me that one should take action that would allow them to add more time to the welfare services on the social mission and the users who actually need them?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e307	The area the representative addresses is a field where our former government, the Solberg government, worked quite a lot, and which has also been strengthened through several budgets and not least during the difficult months of the pandemic. It was further strengthened in particular towards young people. If you are to provide good services, you also need to know if the quality you provide is good enough — whether the content you provide is good enough. You don't report for the sake of reporting, as the Workers' Party may think. It's primarily about learning from what you're working on, and seeing how you can evolve all the time, and then you have to have a qualified basis to see how you can do things better. Now the Minister of Municipal Affairs has moved to the Department, but when the Minister of Municipal Affairs was in the KS, that Minister also agreed that having the quality of services through knowledge was a good way to go. I think the Labour Party should listen to that too.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e316	The representative has repeatedly said that the biggest goal is to provide good services to people. I can't believe there's someone in this hall who doesn't share that goal. But that the representative is busy listening to local politicians – then I think he's heard a little bad in the last eight years. Every year, the Solberg Government has proposed a reduction in its share of resource-intensive services. There has been clear feedback every year from all municipalities — small and large — that this is a terrible challenge for the municipality, and that it leads to a reduction in the quality of services for resource-intensive users, and in the next round it leads to a severe reduction in the supply to older people because this money has to come from a place. Once again, the Solberg government is proposing a strong cut in the share of resource-intensive services in the state. How can this be defended in the light of the feedback we have received in the last eight years?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e323	As the representative chooses to look at a larger time span, I will use the same time span when I reply. In 2004, the total payment for this type of service was 1.5 billion. kr, while the government granted 11 billion. NOK 2021. There are several reasons why costs are increasing, and one of the main reasons is that there is an increase in the number of recipients requiring resource-intensive services. Previous reports have also shown that past under-reporting is captured as the scheme becomes better known. I think it's important to have this debate, and I also look forward to working on this. I will agree with one thing: that it has been difficult to find objective criteria in the income system that can capture the cost variation. Now, the Solberg government has reduced a sample to look at the entire income system, and I hope this is one of the things that comes back to when they present their report, and we can go into it in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e331	As the representative pointed out, the increase is due to an increase in the number of users in this system. This is due, inter alia, to: health science has come so far that we are saving more premature babies, that we are saving more people after traffic accidents, and that there are more people who need a lot of services around the municipalities. Does the representative think that they should be given a much worse service than those who were in this before? These are rights services, they are people who have a huge need for care, and the municipalities have two choices: either they have to provide these users with the services they need, or they have to provide cuts in other municipal areas to finance this. The municipalities have reported back year after year that the care of the elderly is largely affected, that the other care services for the elderly are being reduced. Does the representative think that is a good solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e338	I think it's adding to the right a lot of opinions that we don't have, through what lies between the lines of the question from the representative. Of course, the Right does not believe that some of our citizens – no matter what their situation in life – should receive worse services. That is exactly why we have strengthened the municipal economy year after year while we have been in government. There have never been so few municipalities on the ROBEK list as now; we have to go all the way back to the last millennium to see a better municipal economy. This is an attack that the Center Party has come with to the Right over and over again. Even they have been killed by a number of fact-finding studies in several election campaigns. Then the current Minister of Finance Vedum went out and said that these fact-findings were ruining the political debate, because then you couldn't be as acute. But I'm not in on that kind of story story. We can think a little bit about what the representative himself stood for the last time they sat in government. Then there were several municipalities on the ROBEK list and poorer municipal economy – and that was what we had in our time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e345	For someone who has been elected locally for the last six years, I can't say that I share the same enthusiasm around the Right's efforts to strengthen and improve the local economy, but it gets to be. My question to the representative Kapur is how he believes that in recent years the policy of centralisation and bundling, both in municipalities and counties, has improved the services received by citizens out there, in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e352	Although the representative started by inviting a small debate on local economy, but ended up with a question about services, I choose to take what was the real question. One of the main reasons why a community reform – which should continue – had to be undertaken is not that the Right wants to change the Norway map, but that Norway has changed. The municipal structure that formed the country when we took over in 2013 was from the 1960s and based on the challenges that the municipalities had then. Since then, we have seen that several municipalities represented what is called natural housing and labour market regions. The implementation of a community reform that ensures the development of areas, the development of businesses, the delivery of municipal services and their content – in the context – is, after all, better than sitting on each other and not getting these services run together. Then it won't do the best for the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e359	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e364	Today we are dealing with the document that may be of the utmost importance to people throughout the country, namely the budget for municipalities and counties. Kindergarten, school and old age care are important in people's everyday lives and the most important thing we can spend community money on. We have put in place a huge increase for the municipalities and the counties. A total of 4.5 billion. extra for the municipal sector next year – €2.5 billion. In addition to the budget of the Solberg government, better childcare, better school for our young people and more for health and care for the elderly. As always, the budgetary process becomes extra complicated when it comes in the middle of a government shift. The budget of the Solberg Government is at the bottom. The new Workers' Party-Center Party government had three weeks to present changes to the budget, and then the budget we are adopting today came to port after good negotiations with SV. We can certainly say that the local government sector is a budget winner. This will mean a different working day in the municipalities. There is a lot of money, but it is absolutely necessary after eight years of constant cuts due to tight frameworks, especially in the small and medium-sized municipalities. The Hurdal Platform notes that the government will provide funding for municipalities that ensure equivalent services throughout the country. Of course, it is not possible to correct everything in a couple of weeks, but this budget is a big step in the right direction. Over the last eight years, municipalities have been charged an increasing share of the cost of resource-intensive services. At the hearings of the Municipal Committee, feedback was received every year that the tolerance limit had been reached. Despite this, the right-hand government would push another 300 million. NOK of costs to municipalities also next year. Fortunately, the new government has stopped this, and the municipalities avoid having to cut off the services of those who need it the most. The county council is strengthened by 0.5 billion. kr. It is important to maintain a good offer in high school and, among other things, for maintenance of county roads. The Hurdal platform states that the government aims to halve the ferry charges from level 1 January 2021 and that distances of less than 100000 passengers shall be free of charge. To ensure the development and increased value creation of Norway along the coast, a good and reasonable ferry service will be central. In many places the ferries are the only link the community has to the mainland and other communications. In addition, the ferries play a crucial role for industry along the coast, and the draft budget now reduces prices by 30 pst. Municipalities and counties have been through extensive clustering rounds, and many have been combined with coercion. In many municipalities, this has greatly affected the services of citizens in terms of poorer services, school leaving and centralisation. The central party has always fought against this state overgovernment of the Municipality of Norway, and it is important that the Hurdal platform now determines that the time of coercion is over. From my point of view – I come from a small mountain municipality in the interior – the most joyous thing about the entire Hurdal platform is that we are now reintroducing an active district policy. We will create optimism and confidence in the future throughout Norway, and then work and well-being are important. If people are to move to the district and become residents, they must have work, and they must have good welfare. At that time, municipalities must have the opportunity to facilitate economic development, and we ensure that through this budget. A major step taken by the government is to grant a grant of NOK 500000 per primary school. It will give municipalities an incentive to bet on keeping schools in the community, where people live. Building growth agreements are a new approach to the development of business and housing in District Norway. This budget ensures that the project will be operational next year and will be stepped up in the years ahead. One hundred million. kr extra to broadband is another important regional policy measure. Dwelling in the district is strengthened by increasing and exploiting the start-up loan scheme. The Korona has been embossing the country over the last few years, and unfortunately it seems that the pandemic will also follow us into 2022. So finally, I would like to thank all the municipal staff who have done a formidable job throughout the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e387	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e392	I think the representative Greni has long had a good commitment to making it easier to build housing in the district, which she also mentions in her post. Of course, there's an intention I and Right Parts, we still have to look for simplifications in the legislation to make it cheaper to build homes and get the building pace up. In the districts, there is a particular problem that the value of the dwelling that you own over time may also go down and not correspond to what it costs to buy a new apartment. The representative referred to in the opening loan. I hear that other representatives from the government parties also mention starting loans to completely different groups. Just this problem is why the Right launched a security housing scheme in the district, which would allow older people to live in a safe home near their community. It is a very important regional policy measure, which the Central Party is now choosing to remove. Why does the Central Party remove the security housing scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e399	I absolutely share the commitment to getting more housing in the district. It is perhaps one of the most important district policy instruments, and the challenge there is two-fold. Firstly, in the last eight years, the state administrator has often practiced planning guidelines in such a square way that municipalities have not been allowed to develop their entire municipality. They have simply not been allowed to lay out plots where the municipality wants to, and they have not been allowed to lay out plots where the youth wants to buy. We intend to do something about this by having a more flexible interpretation of the state planning guidelines and making sure that the municipalities themselves have a much greater right to know how to develop their own municipality. The second is, as the representative is inside, the distance between mortgage value and acquisition value. There we are now saying that municipalities can use the initial loan scheme to finance the amount between the mortgage value on which the bank lends and the actual costs of building.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e406	I fully agree that local communities and municipalities will be more effective, especially in terms of objections, and that the government manager will be given less power. It's one of the things that the Right took care of when we put in government, where the municipalities actually got through in eight out of ten cases. By comparison, the former red-green government, from 2005 to 2013, gave the municipalities right in four out of ten cases. It's fine if the Center Party now actually has an engagement to make sure that you can keep the statistics that, among other things, Right in government provided. But I'm not getting an answer as to why we should remove the scheme of security housing for the elderly. It is a measure to go to municipalities with centrality classes 5 and 6. Where you have the biggest challenges, you should have the opportunity to make it easier for older people to change homes so that they could live longer at home. The centre party has no answer as to how to secure it. I hope the representative can answer why you choose to remove the security housing scheme, which I asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e413	We can't see that it's the most sensible use to provide more housing in the district. The challenge is usually that young people do not have the opportunity to obtain suitable housing when they come back. It is not that older people in district municipalities sell a very good dwelling that the youth is interested in. Very often when moving to a nursing home, e.g. in my municipality, no dwelling is released in the municipality, because it is usually a small farm such as the heirs, for example. used as a resort. In many urban communities, having access to several security homes, several elderly homes, is a way of releasing single homes to the housing market. It doesn't work that way at all in all district municipalities. We want other and more powerful tools to provide more housing in the district. That is what we believe we are doing through the start-up loan scheme. We come back with changes to make the site easier, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e421	Thanks for the answer. The representative is really inside a completely different housing segment than what I'm asking about, when it's talking about nursing homes, because it's about the possibility of moving out of what might be a little suitable dwelling and moving near the pole and the store. You may lose your driving licence and no longer have the opportunity to get to it, for example. Poles and shops, which many also need when living in the district. The fact that young people move out and back to the district, and that more housing is to be built, is a completely different issue, which I am also very concerned that we are able to deal with, primarily by creating more jobs in the private sector in the districts. This start-up loan scheme is being discussed by several representatives of the government parties. It will be used to compete with private banks for young people, it will be used for the elderly, but we have not yet seen anything about what these powerful instruments, as the representative, Mr Greni, is talking about. What powerful means of housing in the district is now to be proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e430	The Start-up Loan Facility shall not be used to compete with private banks. The Start-up Loan Facility shall be used to finance what the Bank cannot finance under the regulatory framework because the mortgage value is lower than the construction costs of these dwellings. If you build a house for $4 million. kr, which has a mortgage value of 3 million. kr, the bank can't borrow $4 million. kr. The municipality will then have the opportunity to assess whether they can use the start-up loan scheme to take the top-level funding in addition to the usual proportion that the youth will have to pay to get this loan. So it's not a competitor to the private, but it's a remedy for the top finance they don't get to borrow from because the mortgage value is too low. In the case of nursing homes, the House Bank currently has very good arrangements for municipal housing. They have co-financing at the municipal nursing homes that makes the municipalities very nice to build nursing homes in line with the needs of the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e437	I notice that the representative, who lives in a mountain, talks a lot about ferry, and of course there is one who lives on an island. The representative said that one had set down the ferry prices by 30 pst, but left the story that it was before the Progress Party put them down by 25 pst. So if one takes the math after the Progress Party in the revised national budget drops by 25 pst, it becomes 5 pst. reduction, but it doesn't sound so good. My question to the representative is about the islands that do not have a ferry that takes cars, but only have a passenger boat. There's a number of communities that don't have a car connection, but they have to be on the boat. They're clearly forgotten. They get no reduction and will be the big losers compared to the others. And it's more often in the districts there are communities that don't have a car connection, but only a boat connection — naturally enough. So my question is, why have the Center Party and the representative forgotten those islands?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e444	The representative must almost excuse me for referring to the budget presented by the Solberg Government in my contribution, the additional proposal that we have put forward, and the budgetary agreement, and not the alternative budget of the Progress Party. I hope that's forgiveness for that. Of course, with regard to those who live on the islands, we take them into account. The ones that, for example, will commute, will now get a much better everyday life when they get the commuting allowance back. It'll be cheaper to commute on these islands. In the case of those who only have boat connections, I see that problem, and that is something we also work with in the government. We have to go through that system. But in eight weeks we obviously can't fix everything that should have been fixed after eight years with a blue government, so we have to do what they say in the baby song: if you eat an elephant, you have to do it piece by bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e453	Heidi Greni is quite recognizable from the last time I was with her in the committee, and I appreciate the commitment around housing policy. I think a lot of us share that. I would say that the local economy has become significantly better by what they repeat now after eight and a half weeks. After Christmas it'll probably be twelve, and it'll probably be the big mantra in the future. But it's not going to come from that out in the districts, where also the undersigned live, we have a demographic challenge. What's a little special, and the representative doesn't say anything about it, is that if we're going to get more people in the districts, we also have to have a business that works. So it doesn't make any sense to kill. We have examples that parts of the tax imposed by the government are not helping to stimulate growth in the number of new residents. How does the representative, Mr Greni, see that we are going to have new citizens? How are demographic developments now in the districts to be countered?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e458	As the Normann Committee points out, there are many factors for growth in the districts. Victor Normann said it like this: there are many solutions, but the worst solution is increased municipal convergence. We need municipalities that develop, small and large municipalities that develop their own peculiarity, and that are becoming attractive to new residents. As I mentioned earlier in the line-up, we have to make it possible for the youth to build where they want – not as it has been before, that they have to build in a housing field if they are to move back to their own municipality. They have to build in that part of the municipality where they actually want it. We have to make sure that we have a business that works. Then we have to reintroduce a regional policy instrument. Municipalities must have an economy that allows them to be of help to the business community, not to a hemshoe. We also need to ensure that the young people who move back have good municipal services, good kindergartens, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e467	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e472	I would also like to start by thanking the Committee for its good cooperation. We got the budget deal very late, so the committee has worked well with bad time. Thanks to a solid effort by the Administration of the Storting, Committee Secretary Marianne Bränden in particular, we have moved to get the settings both proofread and in place for the treatment today. It's kind of fun to follow this debate in a new role for us blue, which has had multiples for eight years. We've been listening for eight years to how bad and skinny it has been in the municipality of Norway, on the in and out, and now it's been no more than eight weeks before the same representatives talk about how great and amazing everything has been. The significance of the local government sector for the economy in Norway is quite large – about 19 pst. of GDP of Inland Norway. One in five who works in Norway, works in the municipal sector, so it's a pretty significant, big player. Then one would believe that the difference between miserable and solid frames would be something more than 2.5 billion. kr. But then we know that the difference between the fact that something is skinny and the fact that it's a huge effort is 2.5 billion. kr. I actually don't think Municipality-Noreg looks at it the same way. I think Kommune-Noreg sees that one must give priority no matter what the frame of a sheep, and that the desired Kommune-Noreg has, will always be larger than the available means. It has been said by the Progress Party when we were in position, when we were in government, and when we supported a government, and now, when we are in opposition, we are honest that municipal politicians must give priority, and that there is always a greater desire and need than what we have from available resources. But if we see the big picture, we now have eight years behind us where the municipal sector has been strengthened as a sector. The municipal sector is relevant, but one still has challenges, even if we have stronger municipalities. If we look at numbers, we have fewer municipalities at ROBEK. The local government sector has twice as much money on book. They've got more responsibility, but they're still in our opinion too much dominated by the state, and especially by the state administrators. The slope of the Progress Party is that we want to give the municipalities the most local self-government possible, unless it affects the individual population. Then we always insist that we give individual citizens freedom of choice, that we give individual citizens the least possible property tax – preferably zero – and that we provide individual citizens with good services, which are of a quality they consume. So to our important priorities in this budget. I have to start with what we don't give priority to. The Progress Party does not prioritise a major government quarter in Oslo. We'll scale it down. Nor do we give priority to state administrators who are going to override local democracy, and want to phase out that system. We would rather strengthen the local economy. And why would we want to? For example, care for the elderly is important to us. In this budget, both from the former government, the Solberg government, and the new government, there was a rather serious breach of trust between the local government and the state when they changed the government-funded elderly care pilot project from one year to another. On short notice, a project reduced by one year. This should not be the case when a state invites to cooperate. Whether or not there is a cooperation and a pilot project a honor should adhere to agreements concluded. I think it's a little special when former prime minister in a line change says that Norway is perceived as unprofessional when a change in means of assistance. So then one is perceived to be unprofessional in the big world, but at the same time one has exactly the same attitude within the country as its own municipalities. The progress party thought it was unwise. And we think it's a pity that eleven municipalities are now going to experience the budgetary crisis after eight weeks with the Central Party in government, which has promised that everything will be better. There are at least eleven municipalities that are going to create the municipal budget in these days that are becoming very demanding because a phase out of state-funded care for the elderly – a project that works very well and that works very well and that provides better care for the elderly. Kindergartens I was in a line change. It's very strange that a particular element, like a pension, and then a not a whole picture. Private kindergartens have a big challenge in getting their leftovers paid for. There are many areas where it draws in the opposite direction, but then select one item. And here, in the face of private kindergartens, it is – just as I call it – a sin that both the previous and the sitting governments have such a policy. Especially in view of all the children who get good deals, and parents who are very happy with the offer, it is a pity that a person pursues such a policy against private kindergartens. The Progress Party stands alone and cheers on all kindergartens, and I am very happy that we now have full kindergarten coverage. But I'm not just going to complain about the sitting government. When it comes to resource-requiring users, they should be praised for correcting the unsocial cut from the previous government. It also had to be done in negotiations last year to put in place a system for the very least. We got into a new system, which fortunately has been passed on. We see when we read news updates from the budgetary procedure, for example. The municipality of the Mosques, a small municipality with a lot of resource-intensive users, that they need the system that came into place and that I hope the new government will strengthen and not falter. And of course I have to talk a little bit about vacation prices. It was not the alternative state budget of the Progress Party I referred to in my reply to the representative of Greni, it was agreed to the revised national budget of the country. The government says they're going to lower the price by 30 pst, but they're not going to compare to the last budget decided, that's revised. They compare to level 1 January, and then they cut 30 pst, so if one compares to a long time ago. If one compares the cut to what's the price today, 5 pst will be cut. – after the Progress Party got the price down by 25 pst. This is a game of numbers, and those who don't go deep may realize that the new government is very kind and takes the price down a lot, but the fact is that they're cutting the price down a little bit. If we were to compare the alternative state budget to the Progress Party, it would have been 50 pst. So we're going to go with our proposal to an additional 25 pst. down. We're reducing the ferry prices more than the central part of government, and we reduced them when we negotiated with the right-hand government in revision, so there's nothing to be ashamed of. Since I started by pinking the government, I can praise them for one last thing. It's not going to be a habit, it's not going to reverse the progress of its cuts in property tax, from 7 to 4 per million, I think I'm positive. That a choice to maintain the level of property tax per million is good, especially at a time when the inhabitants experience high electricity prices, interest rates are rising, fees are rising, and food prices are rising. Then it would be very bad for ordinary people if the property tax too were to go up. So it's good that one has passed on the Progress Party's cuts in the property tax. I hope there's something that you'll continue to do, that you'll figure out how to put a roof on the property tax, so there won't be huge bills for some people. I would like the government party to talk to their local people, because there's a lot of creativity attached to re-entry, which makes them take as much money as before. For the Progress Party, it is about putting down the property tax, and preferably removing it. Therefore, it will be an important matter for us in this period as well. It will also be important for us to ensure local self-government. We experience time and time again that state administrators set aside local decisions. Taking the spark from local politicians is not allowed to decide for themselves where to plan housing and where to start a business, but to get a bureaucrat from the county capital and say that this is not allowed. This is something we would have liked to have done, because it is very little motivating not to be able to be master of own houses, and that someone sits in an office – when it comes to the municipalities in my constituency, sitting in Bergen or at Leikanger – and says no to important industrial development projects. I didn't like that. In conclusion, it's a pleasure that even if we're in opposition, we still have a little pervasiveness. We have a proposal to which the entire Committee agrees, namely that the government should consider the work group between the KS and the government in relation to corona expenditure, be given an extension of the mandate. We think it is positive that the Committee signals and supports us, and it is very important for the challenges of public society. The municipal sector will have expenditure on the corona beyond what was suggested for the mandate. For this reason, we are pleased that this working group will continue, and one should also look at the challenges one faces in the first line, the ones that really face the coronary situation in the municipalities: health workers. There are many needs in municipalities to strengthen it, so that the services have good conditions in the future. With that, I'm taking up the suggestions that the Progress Party is about, and they're part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e506	Then the representative Helge André Njåstad addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e513	The representative Njåstad of the Progress Party was in his contribution to a project that was put in place and started while the Progress Party was still in government. It was the pilot project of state-funded care for the elderly in eleven municipalities. So we saw that the Solberg government, when the Progress Party was no longer part of the government and was not necessary to get budget plurality, ended the project and took it out of the budget. Now we see that the Progress Party is proposing to continue the project and finance it by reducing the population grant for the other municipalities in the country. What results does the Progress Party see in this project, which means that they believe that 345 municipalities will continue to finance it in the eleven selected municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e520	I thank the representative for the question. It gives me another opportunity to conclude that we are very disappointed in the previous government, which took it away, and also the disappointment of the new government, which did not take it back in. It is only the Progress Party that believes that care for the elderly is so important that we have to finance the services here directly to each individual resident in Norway who needs care for the elderly. That is what is at the heart of this experiment: the money should not go into the municipality and then you should see if you can afford to do good care for the elderly. If there is a need, there is a need for one of the elderly in the experimental municipalities, the money should be provided automatically, so that one can provide good care for the elderly. This is a model we want to introduce to all municipalities, but then we have to try. It's a great attempt that works very well. The people involved in the experiment are very happy, both administratively, politically and not least the people who experience it. Therefore, our goal was to go from eleven to all municipalities. Unfortunately, both the previous and this government chose to go from eleven to zero, and still make the elderly care an area where you can cut the municipal budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e528	I register that the Progress Party believes that the 345 other municipalities then have enough money to run their care for the elderly. Another thing I also stumbled a little over just in the situation we're in now, which the representative had in mind so far in his post, concerns the State Manager. In the situation we are now facing, with the Korona, we know that the State Manager is assisting municipalities well in some preparedness, crisis management and coordination. Does the representative Njåstad think that the municipalities also have the finances in that field to take over all the tasks from 1 January, which are in 14 days' time, when you choose in your draft budget to remove the entire allocation to the State Manager?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e535	For example, the Progress Party adds some of the money you save to the local government, back to the local government, just to underline the importance of municipalities taking part in the functions of today's government administrator. Our budget must be read as if we want it in an ideal value. Had we been in position, we wouldn't have suggested doing it on 1 January, but it's in a way to show the effect of our health policy, and it's about strengthening the municipalities, so we're adding 0.5 billion. kr more to the municipalities. There is also a great deal of efficiency in avoiding that the municipalities and the State administrator spend a lot of time arguing with each other. It's going to be more efficient for Norway that municipalities decide. Just to avoid spending all your time today arguing with the state administrators.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e542	One of the major prestige reforms to the Right-Fremskritsparte government was the municipal reform. There were great promises made. It would be better economy, better services, more citizens, even more democracy. Well, now almost two years have passed, and in 35 out of 43 merged municipalities, services have had to be cut in order to get the budget in 2021 to go together. Bureaucracies have grown in several merged municipalities, several merged municipalities are now experiencing population decline, and more and more require dissolution of the coercive municipalities. Does the Progress Party believe that the municipal reform was a success? If they were to return to government later, would they like to repeat this reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e549	It's too early to tell you if it's a success. Mi magekjensle would say that one should have done even more to get even fewer municipalities, so that they had been stronger and made bigger professional environments to deliver more complex services for the inhabitants in the future, but it was a good start to go from beyond 400 municipalities to 350. Then one has done a lot in those years. The vast majority of municipalities feel that they get a greater professional environment; they get better services. The economic challenges I think there are two reasons why. One is that very many of these municipalities got red-green plural after the last choice. It was unfortunate for the financial management of those municipalities. The second is that we saw that a lot of municipalities spent money before they were merged and invested in their own municipality, which means that the new municipality has a challenging situation in retrospect. That responsibility must be borne by all parties in this room other than the Progress Party and the Right, who would have a security valve in the law that would make one unable to make the investments. As a result, the Centre Party will take a large part in the responsibility for the municipalities spending more money before they are merged.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e556	On the website of the Advance Party they signal yes to referendums, and they write that they will give power to the people. The Progress Party's own representative in the Committee, Mr Wiborg, is quoted as saying that we have too few referendums in Norway. Will the Progress Party now support those who require a referendum on the dissolution of the merged municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e563	The Progress Party supports popular protests. In a lot of municipalities, it's the Progress Party that's calling for people's dissidents. I record that there are sometimes Center Party people locally who vote against it. As a random example, the Progress Party proposed a People's Release in Steinkjer. It was then a representative of the local government – which is now the Council of State of the Ministry of Local Affairs – who sat in the hall and voted against the referendum. There is one example of a frequent finding local Progress Party representatives voting for a People's Remedy, and the Center Party people voting against.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e568	The SV and the Advance Party represent two slightly different projects and have faith in a little different directions to hopefully get to about the same goal. We also have different views on this with regional levels and agencies, and it was the representative inside his post. In this budget, the Progress Party writes in its comments that it will remove the State Administrative and Road Administration's right of objection in land matters, and that this decision-making authority will then rather lie with the municipalities. The management of our common areas and natural areas goes naturally also across the municipal borders. Does the representative see any challenges, difficulties or at all concerns about the removal of an important regional body and a neutral view on these issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e575	It's probably the first time I've heard that the governor has a neutral look. Government administrators often have their own policies, and they are concerned with limiting the ability of local politicians to facilitate development. I think the best way to plan the country is that it is the people who are responsible to the populace in elections and who implement land policy and disposal. If they feel this is wrong, they can be replaced every four years. There can't be one with a bureaucrat at the State Administrator or the State Road Authority. One may also be accountable to the Stortinget as the Council of State, so we believe that if there is such an important national interest, a Council of State may raise that objection on behalf of the Government, which is accountable to the Stortinget. It's the democratic deficit, given that one cannot be replaced by elections or is not responsible, which means that we are critical of giving random bureaucrats far too much power.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e584	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e589	For me as the first trip, this budgetary process has been an exciting and sometimes a bit of a nervous journey to be allowed to be on, from the Solberg government budget, which we thought on the left needed clear improvements, via the Hurdal platform and to the additional proposal of the Støre government – also that a draft budget we in SV thought could be dressed up in something more red and green – to now, where we are faced with a conciliation and a budget that will draw Norway in the right direction, towards a better distribution and a fairer climate policy. During the consultation in this area, few did not mention the importance of a good local economy. Of course, if you say so, rapporteurs and municipal directors were concerned about having an economic space, a space for action that could ensure good welfare services for all their inhabitants. But it was not just them: organisations that either cooperated or see the importance of a strong municipality also expressed concern about savings, efficiency and reduction in the provision of services. Save Barna, Nelfo, Cerebral Parese Association, Poor Network, KS – the list is long. Municipal economy is a word that does not always arouse the great interest, but we know that in the course of life everyone becomes the recipient of one and most likely more services and offers provided by the municipality to us where we live – it is services such as roads and bicycle paths, kindergartens and schools, mental health, drug services or perhaps also a nursing home. Of course, the quality of this will improve with a greater economic space. The community sector has been increasingly expected, both because many tasks need to be solved close to people, and because other levels have been reduced, for example. through the inter-action reform. There's a lot to solve, and everyone expects a lot of the public welfare we've built up. There's a lot to say about this budget. It's a good budget, and some things are SV especially pleased to have got in place. Free SFO is an important step towards a daily life where children cannot stand outside while others continue to play. The parents’ wallet shall no longer give an indication of whether the children get all day together with friends and on activities. We're starting with the first class, but the goal and direction are clear: we're going to get free SFO for everyone. Also for dental health, this is a small but not insignificant step in the right direction, towards a dental reform. It is perhaps our time's most important health reform, where finally the last part of the body is also going to be part of the public health system. Ensure that you can get the help you need, when you need it, that you can apply for jobs with a smile and with self-confidence, that's something everyone deserves. Increased frameworks for resource-demanding services. More and more people need a more comprehensive offer to live a good life. KS recently presented a report showing the large scale of the increased health costs experienced by the local government sector. There is a need for a strong commitment in this area. And so we're going to take less of that, but we're going to take more of a guiding and important step on the way. For those who have the least and are dependent on economic social assistance, we've made sure that child welfare does not go to deductions here. It is a practice that belongs to the past, as the social welfare picture was completely different. We ensure that more children grow up with a slightly less stressful life situation. Then I have to mention the increased framework and security of public transport. On the part of the county councils, everyone at this hearing was concerned that it was an important area, and we are listening to them. Both increased bet and compensation for the decrease we have seen under the pandemic – which unfortunately is not over – we must continue. It is essential that we maintain a good grid throughout the country and that we have an environmentally friendly alternative. Then it is gratifying that we have started an investigation to make demands on those companies that provide publicly funded welfare services. It's time we got control of what the tax money goes to, that we're sure that they go to exactly what we buy – welfare services – and not for profit. Also mentioned here is the reintroduction of the local authorities' right to have access to the facilities of private kindergartens, so we have a certainty that the money we pay goes to good kindergartens for our children. All municipalities in our country are different. It also means that they have different challenges and ways to solve them. Local democracy and space of action are important for developing services close to people. Finally, I would like to thank you for a good cooperation, a steep learning curve and a nice dialogue within the Committee, and as I said, it has been a nice first trip to this goal. SV is satisfied with a good start, a turnaround is going on, and we are going to contribute to this constructively for four years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e619	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e625	SV has previously profiled itself as a knowledge party and has cooperated with the Right to strengthen the knowledge of the school. The reports that form the basis for the school effort are precisely in the budget we now have to deal with. Unfortunately, in the new government, the Centre Party has won its school profile, which is about cutting in actions that promote knowledge, as an additional science course. On the other hand, there is bet on their children's hearts: small schools. It may have been more surprising for many — including the Education Association — that SV topped this in the agreement and removed the pot that goes to pay for teachers’ specialists. Does the representative agree that the removal of the teacher-specialist scheme provides less career opportunities for teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e634	That's an important and good question. These are areas for which we absolutely have a good and broad policy in our party as well. We are dedicated to having a good dialogue, not least with the trade unions and the environments working on this. What devices, what pots and what schemes are the very best for teachers, and which create the best learning environment for children, are something we're going to continue to work with. If cut in exactly this is the right way to go, I can unfortunately not answer exactly today. But we are at least concerned that we should ensure that the teachers are listened to and that good teaching services can be provided to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e641	It might be a good way to go first to find a new solution before you cut what exists. For many years, the OECD has recommended Norway to introduce what has been called the red tape and efficiency reform implemented by the Solberg Government. It has been carried out in confidence that businesses and business leaders can improve efficiency where they know the shoe is pressing. We got criticism from, among other things. SV that the cuts should have been detailed down in each activity. The new government has continued the ABE cuts for 2022, and SV has topped this with a strengthening of the ABE reform through what they call reduced travel costs, which are lubricated thinly in addition to all state businesses. What new knowledge does the representative have to support this kind of cut? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e650	I don't think the representative has any new knowledge. We still have as a clear objective that flattening cheese needs in state businesses is not a good way to go in any way. Then I see that this is linked to travel expenses – that it is also introduced as a kind of flat cut, which we initially think is a bad idea. We want a greater degree of political governance on it. The difference between the two is that here you have a cut-out system that goes over many years. Here we're actually talking about a real situation in a crisis situation under a pandemic, and then you take political action that can actually affect you in the given situation you're in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e655	Instead, when I got a line from the representative, Wold, started it by saying that SV and the Progress Party are a little different. That's right, but when we find each other and we work together, it's great. In the previous period, we found each other when we were in retirement, and we got a lot. But maybe the best known both in this room and in society is when we found each other in the nursery arrangement. What I'm asking is whether we can create a new project this year. If there is a real challenge, it is health workers in the municipal sector — nurses and health professionals who need more pay, right status and better education. Could it be an idea that we might have a new Progress Party-SV collaboration in the municipal sector, which was about raising those who have been in the first line below the corona, and who really need it? Is there an SV willing to accept such an invitation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e660	It's probably not up to me to say yes to such an invitation on the stand, but there's no doubt that we both have a policy where we want to strengthen very many of the groups that were now mentioned. We also want to have a diverse and good offer to our users, perhaps especially in the kindergarten sector, as the representative said. We want to keep that diversity, not ensure that we get funds that are transferred to large profit-gathering groups, which are the ones that buy up the ideal and good kindergartens, which just ensure a good diversity in the services offered to everyone in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e665	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e670	I tend to answer all those who say they are not concerned with politics, that everything is politics. Where and when the bus goes, if it goes at all, if there is a good school and kindergarten for the children growing up, if the older ones are taken care of, and if the employees have time and opportunity to take care of people – all these are policies, and at the heart of the whole is our municipalities and our counties. The municipalities are the heart of our common well-being, and the municipalities are the providers of most of the services we use in everyday life. The municipalities are also one of our most important tools in the fight against the increasing differences. The Coronapandemy has once again shown us how dependent we are on a well-functioning municipal service offer and that many municipalities are underfunded. For Red, the struggle to enable municipalities and states to offer good services to everyone, no matter how the wallet is, or what postal address you have, is an important fight. One of the biggest investments in the 2022 Rødt Alternative State Budget is therefore to move more money from the State to the municipalities in the form of increased, free revenues, including increased district grants. In fact, we're going to grant a whole And there's a lot of good services and local self-determination in the five billion. Extra kroner that we're going to cancel. Increased free returns make it possible to do more of what people in local democracy seem to be most important. There may be more staff in the welfare sector, a daily fire station, a number of hospitals, the maintenance of community schools, the establishment of a leisure club or a municipal kitchen for the care of the elderly. Red believes that the county councils also play a very important role in creating good communities around the country. The counties must be able well to be development engines in industry and also in climate. Red also believes that county dentistry needs reinforced financial transfers in order to provide cheaper treatment to more people. Here I refer to the Red's budget, where we put 3.2 billion. kr to start a phase-in of free dental health – a little more meat on the legs than that in the budget agreement. Red also proposes to increase the free income of the county by 200 million. kr more than in the budgetary agreement. We will provide increased support for the conversion of zero-emission solutions for ferries and speedboats, and we will provide important means of development and conversion. Red also proposes to further strengthen local self-government by setting up a separate fund of 75 million. kr for the purchase of beach area, which ensures shared access to natural areas along the coast. Red also increases transfers to the Sameting by a further 25 million. kr in our budget, so that we can strengthen Sami language and culture. The red priority is the strengthening of the Merkur programme, for development and competence programmes for local shops and regional bookstores will ensure more services for the inhabitants near people. It is also important to improve the ability of our counties to absorb the large maintenance set-up on county roads and to increase the granting of racial and tailor-made protection and, in particular, emergency measures in response to changing weather and climate. For too long we have also had a housing market that fills the pockets of housing sharks, while a crowded housing market deprives many of us of the opportunity to own their own home. A normal paid nurse could buy 1.3 pst. of the dwellings in Oslo, according to the index of nurses from Eiendom Norway. It's a decrease from 3 pst. last year. This shows why strong instruments are needed for a more social housing policy. Red believes that the House Bank is an important housing policy tool that must be at the heart of a better housing policy, but also in the development of a non-commercial housing sector and to help more people enter the housing market. Red also expands the Husbank's loan framework, like the budgetary agreement, but slightly more, while also providing funds to investigate the organisation of a third housing sector. Let me end by going into the housing support system, which has been hollowed out over several years. I feel that I say that every time I am in this pulpit, but Red has the aim of restoring the housing support system and making sure that much more is covered by it. Therefore, we will increase the rates and ensure that more people are entitled to housing allowances than today. So we're going to take 400 million. additional DKK in relation to the budgetary agreement. In conclusion, the work of creating good municipalities for all residents, regardless of the postal code and size of the wallet, continues. And the struggle to secure more homes for people and not for the housing speculators has begun. I am happy to see how the rest of this work is going to end. We in Red must at least press for a more social profile and for us to be able to live a good life out there in the municipalities – wherever it is. I finally brought up Red's proposal on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e704	The representative Tobias Drvland Lund then addressed the proposals to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e711	In the additional number, the government cut the pension allowance for private kindergartens and Red is behind it. In the Committee's budget hearing, we were told from Kausvol Gardsbarnehage that this cut represents more than the entire surplus in the kindergarten, and that this means that kindergarten must cut either the benefits of employees or the costs of sickness temporary workers. Does Red think it is right to make everyday life worse for the employees of private kindergartens because Red does not like the existence of private kindergartens, which to some extent include most of the farms in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e718	Let me first stress that Red has nothing against private kindergartens. We have something we're questioning about the private commercial kindergartens, which are rich in public transfers. In this case, it's actually about making sure that the money you set aside for a pension will go to retirement and not to private enrichment. For a few years back, we could see that you put 1 billion. kr of money in your own pocket – money that should perhaps go to pension services instead of enriching commercial owners. My question to the representative is why he does not care about ensuring better services for those who are actually to provide the services, rather than being concerned about enriching commercial owners out there in the nursery market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e726	Now I can answer this with the services. In user surveys, we see that the population is well satisfied with the diversity of childcare services that the private sector — or private commercial sector, which Red likes to call that sector — represents. The representative made some claims that the grants were used to enrich the owners. What evidence does the representative have to say that the money going to the pension grant is used to enrich the owners and is not going to enrich the employees of the private kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e733	The representative Vamraak can look at what these pension grants have been going on. Then I also ask why it is such that there is less expenditure on pension and wage subsidies in private kindergartens. Wouldn't that mean that you're picking up a profit from a place, because the public transfers are going to be pretty much the same? After all, this surplus is created by cutting wage and pension costs, and then we in Red will make sure that you have more pension contributions that make the actual costs and that you don't take any of the transfers you shouldn't have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e738	It's actually wrong, as the representative Lund says, that the grant then makes the actual pension costs. It is not based on the pension schemes that each private nursery has with its employees, but it is based on a norm based on the costs of municipal kindergartens. I do not see that the representative Lund has answered the question that the money is being spent on the individual kindergarten – whether the money has gone into the pockets of some private people, whether they have gone to strengthen the offer of the children in the kindergarten, or whether they have gone to good pension schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e743	We believe that we need to better organise this system around the actual expenditures out there in kindergarten, and we believe that this budget proposal is actually adding up. That's why we haven't changed it in our alternative state budget. On the other hand, we believe it is important that, in the future, we ensure a welfare sector in which all the money we pay into taxation for common welfare should go to that very thing, and not to enrich any serious commercial players out there in the market, whether it is in the area of child protection, parental care or kindergarten, of which the representative Vamraak is concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e748	In the later discussions on different issues of support, the Progress Party and Red have cooperated well and found each other in a number of proposals, so it is clear that we are quite a few that ordinary people should get the targeted support – that one should not make municipalities rich, which can then withdraw social assistance from it. I think that's because we want to help ordinary people in an extraordinary situation. For the same reason, the property tax is so important to us, because it's an unfair and unsocial property tax, which hits whether an owner's house itself, has a loan on it or has a large house inherited – that is, whatever your ability to pay. My question is whether Red also agrees with the Progress Party that the municipal property tax is an unfair tax, which we could have removed and replaced with something more fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e755	If Njåstad has read our party program, he sees that we are not married to property taxes, but we see that property taxes in many cases are a good way to compensate for expenses that municipalities have to provide good services. If Njåstad had then been busy enabling the municipalities to provide good services without taxing property, he could also fight for increased allocations to the municipalities, so that property tax would not have been equally necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e760	Back to kindergarten: In my municipality, Steinkjer, we have over 50 pst. private kindergartens. If Rødt's policy had become decisive, we would not have had the opportunity to offer children kindergartens in public. I could imagine a reflection around: what would this do in terms of gender equality – if we were to abolish all private kindergartens? What would it be like to have an equal working life? Is all this thought in Red's program? I can appreciate that someone might want this to be recommunerated now, but for our part – Steinkjer Municipality – this is not possible. Maybe Red has a different plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e767	Yes, first of all – as I have to say to the boring every time, it seems like – we have to distinguish between the private commercial and the private ideal kindergartens. Even I went into a private non-profit kindergarten in parts of my previous life and am very pleased with it. The most important thing is that we are able to offer all children a good upbringing and a good day for kindergarten, and that the employees are secured enough resources and time to do a good job. Red believes that the best way to do so is to return all the tax money that we grant to well-being — and to kindergartens in this case — to the operation rather than making large profits from commercial private owners. It seems that the representative of Skkelstad is satisfied with that, but we are not in Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e772	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e777	The pandemic is over us with full strength. Once again, we ask the people for a lot. We don't know how the pandemic develops in the future and how radical we have to live with, but we know a good deal more than we did in March 2020. I know how this is going to affect the municipalities, and what we have in store. Former municipal minister Astrup made sure to have the necessary assurances that the municipalities would be fully compensated. It calmed down, it created predictability, and I hope and believe that the Council of State Gram can give equivalent assurances that the municipalities will be cared for. It'll give you some peace of mind in the time ahead of us. At the same time, we see that there is a government that is more than willing to play up to the unrest and uncertainty associated with both existing states and municipalities. Unfortunately, it was not empty promises as the Centre Party promised to facilitate the dissolution of new counties and new municipalities. They seized power and put Kommune and Fylkes-Norway in play. The Minister of Local Affairs has even expressed such enthusiasm that he has already approved a resolution request from Troms and Finnmark, which is still pending. We also see that residents and workers in the Gulf and the Inland remain uncertain as to how the decentralisation option is played out. The government, with Battle Force Vedum at its head, has given promises that those who want to can be dissolved. In the left, we think it's unfortunate. Much can be said – and has been said – about the way in which the counties and municipalities have been merged, but after many years of working for fewer and stronger states, the seventh and last Solberg government had the will to implement it. We believe that this was absolutely necessary. Unfortunately, several tasks and responsibilities have been missing. We recognize that, but when we continue and are very impatient to have more jobs and tasks moved out to the counties, we are worried about seeing the game that the government is now playing out. In the left, we are not going to vote that weakening more states makes them more attractive in the labour market, that it gives them more stability in the economy, a greater chance of taking the driver's seat in the green shift and responsibility for larger tasks. I sincerely believe that weakening the states, as the government now adds, will play the whole third level in Norway. But I'm clear enough to say that I believe the government, with the Senter Party at the head, wants to do the best for the municipalities and the counties. I record that the Støre-regierung gives additional appropriations to municipalities and counties, even if it does. are increased taxes on business which give room for action to do so. So we know that many people in Municipality-Norway appreciate the transfers. We are waiting eagerly to see if these are transfers that come only in the wake of an election campaign full of promises, or if it is followed up in the years to come. We see that District Norway should also strive to cope with the challenges that lie there. The Center Party District Norway is in many ways to look back and wish for what was. It may be intrusive to believe that there are no limits to how small municipalities and counties can be, but it is not to take tomorrow's challenges seriously. Thinking district policy with the heart leaves an inconvenient impression that everything is possible as long as the state sets up and facilitates it. But believe it or not – there are also some limitations in municipalities with a few thousand inhabitants and counties as urban areas in Oslo. I have more concerns about how Kommune-Norway will meet the challenges ahead of us in the years to come, for example, the need for primary care, which we know will be enormous in the years to come. I had a line round with the chairman of the committee. I just want to clarify that the left is of course for full-time positions. It should be lacking, but that is not the main challenge – the main challenge today is to recruit for primary care. It is already the challenge piece that lies in Kommune-Norway. The crew industry is involved in creating predictability, yes, of course we should have had several recruitment opportunities in District Norway, but unfortunately it is not. That's why the recruitment industry is also a crucial part of making the municipality of Norway actually work, because it's about both recruitment for care professionals and recruitment throughout primary care. I can assure you that the Left will be a positive and offensive opposition party in the district policy. We have experienced how destructive it is when parties in the opposition use every opportunity to talk down District Norway and play city and land against each other. For this reason, I will continue to take the opportunity in the opposition to make proposals and to support measures that will make Kommune and Fylkes-Norge better equipped for a challenging future, while expecting the government to have a realistic rural policy and not just to reverse the measures we have taken in the last eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e805	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e810	The representative says that the government is playing a game and playing up to worry. With respect to reporting, it's probably the previous government – with, among other things. At the top – which provided for the game and the mess of this reform. When the decision and the coercive decision were taken, the representative himself stood up and was very satisfied – and said that regions could take on important tasks. It was important for those who believed in the spread of power and a living District Norway; they had had a great impact. But many were disappointed. ‘This is just bread crumbs’, said the county rapporteur in Oppland, for example. How satisfied is the representative with the reform and tasks transferred? Where did it go wrong? And why didn't there be any more problems to move out?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e819	As a former state politician, I am pleased that we started the process. I am also very pleased that, among other things. was able to transfer together road administration, so that both the head and hands are in the same place. Then we would like to have more problems, and that's a little bit of the work ahead. On the other hand, I'm very afraid that what's now happening in the Inland can put the possibilities of having a three-level model into play. I do not want a two-tier model, because a two-tier model will significantly weaken the districts. I think the reversal wave we have now, unfortunately will help to weaken District Norway and the possibilities we have. At the same time, I believe that a larger and more powerful regional level could take on greater tasks in the future. I myself have been and am still a supporter of the fact that if you have a stronger regional level, you can also take over the hospitals in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e826	At least I have to promise the representative that the government will take responsibility for, among other things, The left failed local democracy. Force is married to democracy, and the new government has the ambition to clean up. The county authorities must then be strengthened in terms of both the economy and tasks. But I want to go back to the representative's claim that this government is worrying, because I think it's going to be writing the story wrong. Then the question becomes, why do you force this through when it was so badly planned? What could have been done differently?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e835	Of course, many things could have been done differently. We could have had a greater pace in the matter. Of course, there could also have been more problems moved out. If I had decided alone, there would definitely have been more problems moved out. At the same time, I believe that it is absolutely necessary to create larger regions that will in the long run have the opportunity to take on more and more heavy tasks – if not all of the tasks we wanted. At that time, perhaps the representative of the Workers' Party could agree that parts of health businesses should have been transferred to the new powerful regions, so that the administration and democracy around it had also been reduced – which would have meant that power had been out in the regions and not in the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e842	The representative of Skelstad and I are both recycled. We were in the municipal committee during the period when we negotiated the municipal and county structure, and the representative was very pleased with the result that came, the new tasks of the county council, and it was celebrated as the great victory of the left. The Centre Party has promoted, inter alia: proposals for the decentralisation of tasks of the government manager, which do not concern supervision and control. We also had many other suggestions when it came to this. This is now down in the Hurdal platform, and we do not have to vote in favour of the proposal from the Left. Many municipalities now want dissolution. They justify the fact that distance constraints and red tape have become much greater than the benefits of a wider professional environment, and – not least – there have been no tasks requiring larger states. Does the representative now see this as a major failure in the fact that the representative is now proposing new tasks to the new government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e853	I guess I'm not more recycled than I mean the exact same thing I did then. What's interesting when you're in debate with the Central Party is that they meant exactly the same, more or less, as the Left in Stoltenberg II. It's a little surprising that they have turned their backs on the belief in democracy closest to the people, for that was what Åslaug Haga argued for that time, but on which Stoltenberg and the Workers' Party would not be involved. So, in a flank march of eight years or something like that, the Center Party has turned it around. How offensive those proposals were that came from the Center Party in 2016-2017, I'm probably a little uncertain about, because part of it could transfer power – not just from the state, but more power from the state – was also about the regional level having to increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e858	I can comfort the representative that it is now laid down in the Hurdal platform that the tasks should be solved at the lowest appropriate level, and that we intend to transfer more power to local democracy and to the county. When the representative claims that the Central Party and the government are now flying around the country to dissolve municipalities and counties, I have to come up with a little reality orientation. We have said that the municipalities and counties who want it will be dissolved. And those municipalities want it because they see that problem solving has become much more complicated, the quality of the services has been greatly reduced, and recruitment to professional environments has been weakened because there are many places where local management is no longer in place, for example. nursing home. It is not attractive to work there anymore. So when the back parts have become so much larger than the benefits, we will listen to the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e865	As I said, I am in the local government in Steinkjer in addition to being here. There we got a community initiative from parts of old Verran that they want to dissolve. Then there was a fairly large majority in the local government who said no to it, and it included all the 22 representatives from the Central Party, who voted as much as the undersigned did in that case. So that's the big pile that wants to dissolve, I'm not so sure. What I am reasonably sure of, on the other hand, is that in this it also creates unrest. One creates unrest in the organizations. It was a good chronicle from a political editor in today's Northern Lights, where by comparison it was thought that this could quickly become a museum guardian if we do not now take note.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e870	In Norway, we have a tradition of strong state activities that carry out crucial social tasks, such as Nav, the prison system, hospitals, and not least the Public Health Institute. These are establishments that depend on an economy that gives them space for action and the ability to prioritise in order to do the job in a quality way. When you cut these services, and you've done that in the ABE cuts mentioned since 2015, it's given the floors a reduced space for action, maybe for a period when we've needed them the most. Does the representative see the challenge of annual cheese needs, leading to less supervision from the Food Authority, longer waiting time for Nav and a overworked Public Health Institute? And will you still claim that these cuts are a good idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e875	I think streamlining the state is a good idea – all the time. We also need to have an efficiency requirement for the state; we can't just have an efficiency requirement for everyone who's around. I have no intention of the state growing to heaven. I think we need to find a balance. Therefore, it is also necessary to streamline the necessary control measures, but this does not mean that they should be washed out at the same time. I think what we did with the ABE cuts was absolutely necessary to streamline the state and rig it for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e881	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e886	The government wants ordinary people throughout the country to have access to good services in reasonable proximity to where they live. Good public service provision is itself an important contribution to cushioning social disparities, and it is important for the smoothing of geographical differences. Many of these basic services are the municipalities and counties of the country responsible for them. Therefore, strengthening the local economy is a key priority for the Workers' Party-Center Party government. In recent years, many municipalities have felt that the budget work has become tighter, and the number of municipalities at ROBEK has started tipping upwards. With this additional number, the government proposes to increase the free income of the local government sector by 4.5 billion. kr next year. That's $2.50. kr more than the Solberg government provided, thus increasing the economic space for next year by 3 billion. kr. It's more than the action space that was proposed in Prop. 1 S for the years 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021 – in total. At the top of the growth in free income, we propose to reverse the Solberg government cut of $300 million. kr in the grant for resource-intensive services. This will strengthen the economy of municipalities and enable them to provide better services to citizens who are entitled to comprehensive health and care services. I have received many messages from rapporteurs and others who are particularly pleased that the government, together with SV, is now stopping this systematic cost review of the municipalities that the Solberg government has been doing for many years. Despite a short period of time for the work on the supplementary number and a clear prioritisation of the local economy, the draft budget starts on a new course also in a number of other areas. In particular, in the budget area of the Ministry of Local Affairs, I would like to highlight the need to strengthen and renew rural policy. The Solberg government has for many years reduced the resources of the targeted district policy, not least in terms of the commercial instruments. It will take time to fix this, but we will convert and build new green industry, so that the competitive advantage of districts in natural resources is exploited. That's why the government is proposing to set at 100 million. kr to large green investments increasing employment in rural areas. Broadband links Norway together and is essential for good public services, for a viable business life and for people to live and thrive throughout the country. In the Hurdal platform, we say that the state should take greater responsibility for broadband development in areas where it is not profitable to expand. We're proposing to increase the broadband support by 100 million. kr compared to the Solberg Government’s proposal, for more than 300 million. NOK 2022. In addition, next year we will start work on rural growth agreements as a new instrument in rural policy, and I point out that the allocation for exceptional conversion to Andøy Municipality is proposed to increase. At the same time, the government has proposed 100 million. kr to development measures in the Andøy municipality of the new age. We're going to set up communities that are facing special challenges. We also have to face people who have special challenges. This must be done widely throughout the policy, but housing policy is an important part of this. In the budget we propose to strengthen the House Bank, so that several families get into the housing market. The mortgage lending framework is increased by 2 billion. NOK 21 billion. Total kr. The proposal will help to allow a total of about 8 000 families to move from rent to ownership in 2022. We will also bet on several rental homes and contribute to a more varied housing offer for disadvantaged people. The budgetary agreement between the Government and the Socialist Left proposes to increase housing aid by 100 million. kr. The government has also submitted a proposal to the Stortinget earlier this year to strengthen housing support, to help cover high electricity costs. There we also announced changes in the appropriations for 2022 to help those with difficulty in calculating the electricity over the winter. In addition, let me add that there is a need to strengthen efforts to tackle living conditions challenges, especially in the larger cities. The most important thing is to give cities a better economy, so that they can pursue an active policy of inclusion and services that reaches everyone, but I am also pleased that we can also strengthen the specific and targeted area initiatives in some of our major cities. Through the budget agreement, the government parties and SV set a new and long-term course for our country: more social and geographical adjustment, with emphasis on the significant role of municipalities. The budget of the Ministry of Local Affairs thus makes a clear contribution to this change in course.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e911	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e916	I have to say, I am quite surprised that the Council of State for such a wide field in such a special time, where many municipalities experience uncertainty, where many in the business world experience uncertainty because of the ever-increasing infection and potential decline in the economy of business, not – as far as we heard – mentioned it in a single word in its speech. I have to say that's special. But replicator is often there to shed light on issues, so I get to use this for it. One of the things that has been in the toolbox for the Ministry of Local Affairs in particular — it really is independent of which department it is — especially towards the municipal sector is the municipal compensation scheme. I challenged the government once on how to look at such arrangements at short notice in the future, and then they said they were ready. So where in the loop is there with these kind of assessments, and when will the money possibly come out to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e923	The municipalities do a formidable job handling and fighting the pandemic. One of the most important things we do to enable them to also meet it is to ensure good basic municipal funding, so that we can maintain the services as well as possible. In addition, municipalities are compensated for increase in costs and loss of income. The government has announced that the working group working to identify the consequences of the pandemic for municipalities will be continued until next year, so that municipalities will have the security of the local economy also in relation to the specific coronary challenges. With regard to the municipal compensation scheme against business, which I assume the representative meant, it is that we now, before Christmas, pay out to specially affected municipalities the last part of the compensation for this year, and it is announced a new billion to next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e930	Just to continue a little bit on the exceptional situation that many municipalities are now facing, both employees, local politicians, businesses, etc.After the times we've challenged the Council of States on reform issues, we've gradually become accustomed to not always getting the clear answers; it's kind of a wretched answer that you should look at it. But now it's precarious. The government itself has given both municipalities and regions quite a short period of time to apply for a divorce. Now it seems that several of them have other things to deal with, but nevertheless: does the Council of State really mean that Norwegian municipalities and regions are now going to spend their time on fragmentation, reversal and liquidation? Or are they primarily to deal with the crisis they are in, and also to continue the important developments they are in?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e935	Norwegian municipalities and county councils handle many different challenges and tasks, including not least a demanding pandemic situation. The government gives the municipalities and county councils that want to do so an opportunity to split up after the previous government coerced them. It sounds like we're talking about the entire municipality of Norway. Well, we're talking about ten municipalities and four counties, together with 14 pieces, which have got a letter from the undersigned where we've given an opportunity for those who want it, among those who were coerced, to dissolve. I have full confidence that local democracy will assess its needs in this way and also decide what processes you want to implement in order to arrive at the decision and, if necessary, the request for dissolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e940	As I was in my main post and also in later lines, it is now about those who stand in the front line of the Corona situation, who have been worn out for many years and are still worn out. I recently read the newspaper's review of an Instagram post by a health worker in Rogaland, Lene Woll, who has received almost 24,000 comments and similar comments, and who is concerned with the situation of health workers. That's a bit of a reason why I'm challenging the SV to find something together to get something done about the situation, once and for all, for all the health workers – all the heroes and nurses out in the municipality of Norway. What Woll points out in his post is the need to focus on increased recruitment, staffing, better working conditions and better pay. Since SV could not give a clear and clear answer to my invitation, I wonder if the government has a good answer as to what we can do jointly to increase the salary and respect for all those who work in health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e947	Let me first say that there is every reason to give great honor and recognition to the job done out in the first line, including in Kommune-Norway. This has been going on for almost two years, it's going to take another while, and there's a lot of effort going on. In this context, I think I would say that this applies in a sense to the entire municipal team. This applies to definitely health professionals, but it is also linked to, for example: growth, cleaners and leaders – the entire municipal team that is in many ways on the front line here. So the representative points to something that's a big challenge. Even before the pandemic, we saw that there was a challenge of recruiting and accessing enough professionals, not least in health and care services. It's a big challenge, and I'm worried about it, because it challenges the sustainability of future service provision. Yes, there is probably a wide range of measures that need to be implemented. One has to do the problems smarter, but also manage to recruit and train more people. These measures include the announcement by the government that a health personnel commission is being set up, also in order to find longer-term answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e954	The previous government led a merger policy towards municipalities and county municipalities. Some mergers were voluntary, and it's probably also the most successful, while others were coerced, where only one has been waiting for the possibility of a resolution, for which new government is now being given room. Troms and Finnmark are perhaps the state that has been most eager to start that process, and they report back a little disappointment at a letter from the Council of State on progress plans and research needs and some bureaucracy around it. Will the Council of State listen to their desire to get a somewhat faster process, and that they do not have to wait for the other states to get their disintegration going?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e961	I am a little uncertain about who sent that signal. I have met with the political leadership of the municipality of Troms and Finnmark, which has actually expressed quite great satisfaction with the course that has now been set. You have set an timetable yourself, but you need the time until 1 January 2024 before it can come into force. It is possible that you could theoretically speed it up a few months for Troms and Finnmark, but I think it would have been very little appropriate to have your own choice shortly before the ordinary county election. As I said, in conversations with the political leadership of the county council, I have seen that you are very comfortable with the race that is now being set up, and that a concrete plan has been put in place to implement it in a good way, and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e967	Lost ticket revenue for public transport is a major challenge for county authorities during the Coronapandemic, and it goes beyond the route offer to the population, with the practical, economic and environmental consequences it has. It is very good that the government puts of half a billion in compensation to county councils for the loss of ticket revenue, but does the government also consider new measures in the future if the loss of ticket revenue would continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e972	The government has said that the county councils will be compensated for net additional expenditure and reduced revenue in the public transport until the end of March 2022, to which the representative now refers. However, if the measures to protect infection were to be taken at that time, the government would consider a further extension. I would like to remind you that we have now extended the mandate of the working group that was actually due to be completed by the end of the year, until the summer, in order to be able to review and identify as closely as possible what is the cost increase and loss of income for the local government sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e977	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e982	Unlike the previous government, this government wants to strengthen the county community as a social developer. The county is responsible for many important services for people and communities, such as: secondary education, highways, culture, public transport, dental health, school pillows and transport of disabled persons. In addition, the county has responsibility for the development of the region, through inter alia: overall planning, industrial development and environmental tasks. A well-functioning government at regional level is important, and the role of social development is exercised in good partnership with the help of good instruments and tools. We will review and strengthen the instrument and the role of the county council in regional and regional policy. There's a majority in Stortingen to give a total of 500 million. kr more in free resources for the county councils of 2022 – in comparison, the previous government proposed an increase of 400 million. kr. This means a total frame growth of 900 million. DKK to counties in 2022. Allocated at county level, the increase in framework grants is, for example, 47.2 million. kr to Trondelag. It'll be fine. It's gathered to fill in the Trøndelag right now, and they're sitting and working to strengthen advanced education with much of this amount. One of the main municipalities is to provide the skills required by business and social life. The need for skilled labour will be great in the future. The government comes with powerful measures for the completion of high school. The budget gives the counties 370 million. to establish apprenticeship guarantees and to qualify professional trainees. This is an increase of 113.5 million. kr in relation to the proposals of the Solberg Government. The goal is, among others: a follow-up to the multi-academic social contract developed by the county councils and joined by the social partners. We provide a more mobile workforce by making it easier for commuters. The budget has 271.6 million. SEK for the reduction of ferry tariffs, including 30 million. kr for free ferries on low-traffic connections. The government will return to the mechanism of the measure on low-traffic connections in the context of the revised national budget and will introduce it in the second half of 2022. The framework grant to county councils is increased by 241.6 million. kr for the purpose of reducing the tariffs by 30 pst. as from 1 January 2022 compared to the tariffs on 1 January 2021. In previous posts here today we have heard a little different numbers and considerations around this, but it is a fact that the increase to which it is referred from revised this summer was eaten up by the increase in VAT and a proposed price increase at the turn of the year. So the fact is that this government is doing more with ferry prices than the previous government spent eight years on. We're increasing the broadband bonus by 100 million. kr. High-speed broadband is essential for residents and jobs throughout the country. The State assumes greater responsibility for broadband development in areas where it is not economically viable. Municipal public transport companies are compensated for reduced ticket revenue by 2021 and by a total of 500 million in 2022. as a result of changes in travel patterns during the pandemic, through the budgetary conciliation. This is important to maintain a good collective offer even when the travel pattern hopefully returns to what was normal before the pandemic, but also in view of the climate-friendly transport and travel solutions of the future. The government will use the whole country. In the budget, we take Norway in a new and fairer direction. It should be possible to live a good life wherever you live. We will provide good services close to people, more secure jobs and good infrastructure throughout the country. City and country should now go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1001	I come from a state that shows the width of District Norway and the possibilities that lie there, and that also shows that it's actually going pretty well. In Trøndelag we have a big city, mountain settlements, small island communities and several small and medium-sized cities that are the engine of their region. Let me do a couple of examples. We have the largest aquaculture municipalities in the country. Take Fröya – the district municipality that is experiencing growth primarily because it is doing well in the business world. What Frøya needs to grow even more is less bureaucracy and more local autonomy. That's why I'm glad that with a right-wing government, we secured more differentiation of the beach zone and more power for municipalities like Frøya. They ask for a continued commitment to higher education, for more people to have the opportunity to take a professional letter, so that they can also develop the industry and the municipality further. We also have small and medium-sized cities that are power centers in their region. Take, for example: the new municipality of Orkland. Although this debate may sound as if the municipal reform has not contributed to a number of powerful municipalities, formerly Orkdal, Meldal, Agdenes and Snillfjord have become one municipality with a larger professional environment that can provide better services. For them, there are several things that have been important, but some of the most important district policy action we have is a differentiated employer’s fee. New Orkland Municipality is an example of a municipality that has had several different rates of employer’s fees within the municipality, and where there has been a need to keep it even after the merger – because the distance from the city of Orkanger up to the Løkken is the same, and therefore there is still a need to have a differentiated employer’s fee. There is also something the government of Solberg put forward in its draft budget, which was promoted in October, which I am pleased that the new government is continuing our position on, and on behalf of peoples and businesses in this region, and also other similar municipalities, are impatient after the follow-up of. We also have great municipalities in the mountain region. The municipality of Røros is an example – a community with a long industrial tradition, and in the municipality we also find a large furniture producer who is an important contributor to the community. Only the company Flock imports almost as much revenue through exports as they receive in framework transfers from the country. They do so, among other things. because they have access to an incredibly important market, namely Europe. Had they not had access to that market, we know that, among other things. The centre party and SV initially did not want to, many of these district work places would have been put at risk. I have spent a lot of time in these municipalities, but I have to admit that in my meeting with people and business I have not heard any calls for regional development funds. On the contrary, I have spoken to people who have said that what is important in order to achieve growth, development and good communities are measures that contribute to more growth in the private sector. Many have said that industry lacks workers. Many companies don't find people with the right skills, even though there are many hands out there. We need to ensure that more people complete further education, that more people are given the opportunity to continue their adult education, and also through good decentralised services. Many have said about the great need to do something about the county road network, which over many years – especially by the red-green state politicians – has been down priority. We have provided a major upgrading of the national road network and have contributed to speeding up the county roads. Many have also said that there is a need to reduce the processing time and to pursue a more active industrial policy in the municipalities, and that municipalities need to decide more on their own. These are measures that I fully agree with, and which I believe are the most important – not regional development funds. What we also have a great potential for the future is to see the possibilities of digitization. Moving state jobs and getting the opportunity to take them home to the home country is an important step towards strengthening the districts. I am therefore surprised that the system of district hubs, to which the Workers' Party was positive when it was launched, is deleted from the government's budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1026	What is the project of the new government? Does it have any project? This is what the outgoing government is trying to ask for. The answer to the question is yes – a loud yes. We have a project – a big project. We're going to develop all of Norway, from North Cape to Lindesnes, from east to west, from Hornøya in Vardø to Exterior Light in Outer Sogn. All over Norway, people should know that they have a government that will develop the country. We're going to take care of that country where everyone, no matter where you come from or how big your parents' wallet is, gets a chance to live the life you want where you want. The Hurdal platform shows some of the grips we want to take, just to develop all of Norway. One example is broadband. We want to make the access to high-speed broadband a straight line with electricity. This means that all — all — will have access to high-speed broadband during this government period. If you live in the middle of the valley, high up at the foot of the mountain, in the open sea or deep inside the forest, you must use the Centre Party and the Government Workers' Party to secure the Internet. This is a strong goal, so clear that someone would be afraid to say it – but this is what the new government is doing. We are proud of the government platform and of our clear objectives, but at the same time, it is thoughtful that this has not been a clearer measure under all governments. If you go back a few years in time, it was a matter of course that everyone should have access to basic services. I hope that no one today will claim that it was a mistake that Norway secured access to electricity, built up the telecommunications network or secured postal access for all citizens. Of course, everyone should be entitled to this, not just those who lived in socially profitable areas. We have a clear history of developing our entire country – we have to learn from it, and we have to be proud of it. All in Norway have a right to good welfare. We ensure that, not by tightening up the municipalities' finances or by pressing them to merge, but by investing in our municipalities and communities. In the budget, we increase the free resources of the municipalities and counties by 4.5 billion. kr. What does a better community economy mean? Well, that means, among other things. that older people living in nursing homes in Northern travel may be given a little extra care, that more students in Trysil will receive more follow-up and help to learn to read and write, that the children in Women's Village will be able to experience that the days in kindergarten will become even more rich in content, that there will be more opportunity to support the local business community in Flekkefjord, and that Trondheim Municipality can develop more sports facilities that create community and joy for both children and young people. We will give ordinary people more influence over the community and its country. The time for coercion, centralisation and aggregation is over – fortunately. At the same time, it is important to learn from the experience of the Right and the Advance Party's municipal reform, because enormous promises were made. Well, now it's been almost two years and evolution hasn't really been as promised. The class struggle revealed in February this year that in 35 out of 43 merged municipalities it had to be cut off from the services of the inhabitants to get the budget for 2021 to go together. The class struggle and the SSB have previously shown that the bureaucracy in the merged municipalities has grown faster than in the non-aggregated municipalities. And a large number of the merged municipalities are now experiencing a population decline – not rise. An example of these challenges is Senja. Berg and Torsken were forced to do so, but what was the reason for the coercion? Yes, among others. wrote the Government's resignation in the proposition: ‘The county points out that the services in particular in Tranøy, Torsken and Berg are vulnerable, although the municipalities have extensive inter-municipal cooperation with Lenvik.’ How vulnerable it was can be discussed to the greatest extent, because there is not a single municipality in Norway that does not have a school, a nursing home or a kindergarten. In the fall, however, the municipal director suggested that all the nursing homes in Berg, Torsken and Tranøy should be laid down. Fortunately, we have competent local elected representatives on Senja who are about to stop this proposal. But it shows at least how quickly the services came under attack after the municipal merger. The government is running. We will develop all of Norway, we will develop all of Norway, and we will develop all of Norway – the whole of Norway we are so happy with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1048	This fall the government has laid the foundation for taking Norway in a new and fairer direction. Now we're going to lay stones on a rock and build a society where the differences between people are decreasing, not increasing. This is just the beginning. We get a historic green and fair budget. We reduce differences, strengthen well-being and cut greenhouse gas emissions. We're going to get this together with SV. The voters gave clear notice that they wanted a change in course. It's already coming into the budgets we're now adopting, evening after evening this week. Ordinary people will notice that we are strengthening well-being. Municipalities and counties are growing by 3 billion. kr in free income. It means more well-being all over the country. It means stronger communities. New policy courses for the country give new increased priorities, including for cities. For Oslo, my town, that means 250 million. kr more for good services. We're proposing $10 million. kr more for area actions in areas under the living conditions and 30 million. kr more for those with the greatest help needs. It means who is in charge of the country, and who is in charge of my city. In addition, there will be free core time in the SFO for first-graders, and we will start a dental reform that targets young people and those with special needs. The handles we take mean something to ordinary people's lives and wallets. We want more people to live good lives in better economic communities. Municipality-Norway is really the budget winner of the year. This budget means most to those who have the least. In the Hurdal platform we warn of a more active housing policy. We want more people to be able to own their own homes, develop good living environments, facilitate building more homes and have a climate-friendly construction industry. Start-up loans are the main means of helping people who are struggling to get into the housing market over a long period of time. The need for start-up loans is increasing and municipalities are actively using the scheme. The government therefore proposes to strengthen the Husbank loan framework by 2 billion. kr. For the municipalities, an increase of 2 billion means. kr in the loan framework that they can help more than a thousand more families from rent to initial loan ownership. In order to contribute to increased access to rentals and more varied housing for disadvantaged people, the government proposes to increase the grant for rentals and attempts at new housing models by 56 million. kr. The gap in living conditions between poor urban areas and the rest of the country is increasing. The government is concerned with urban policies that improve living conditions and combat child poverty. In the Hurdal platform, the government says that it will strengthen and expand the area deployment in the metropolitan areas with specific living conditions challenges, and therefore proposes to allocate 20 million. kr more for the 2022 site plots than the previous government proposed. Child poverty is increasing. In some urban areas, we have tripled families with long-term low incomes. The segregated government is increasing in cities, especially between those with the most, and those with the least in the wallet. This has happened on the Right Guard – and we would not believe that after hearing Mudasar Kapur here in the Chamber on Monday this week. He then boasted of a number of measures that, as he put it, contribute to less inequality. Well, the number's speech says something else. The gap in living conditions between poor urban areas and the rest of the country has increased, as I have already mentioned – and that with Erna as Prime Minister. After eight years at the rudder, the fasitism is that several of the children growing up in life-threatening areas have had a more difficult life. Researchers said in the evening post in 2017 that it would be too far to say that living in a poor area is poor, but living in an area with many neighbours with poor living conditions, low income and education reduces people's chances of life. It is time to strengthen prevention – and just take Oslo: We are strengthening child protection by 18 million. kr, we lower the price in kindergartens and increase the pedagogical density of living areas. We're increasing the housing stock by 100 million. kr – and this is in addition to the measures on current. We are strengthening preparedness and close-up police – and we are strengthening efforts to combat recriminalism. Together with the Centre Party and SV, we are doing better to live in the city and country already this first budget harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1067	The municipalities are for the inhabitants, not the opposite. For me and for the Right, the most important thing is that the municipalities provide good services to the inhabitants. One of the biggest and most important tasks the municipalities are responsible for is school. Right will give our children the best possible start to life through a good school. A good school is also the best way to balance social differences. A good school makes sure that it is not the parent’s economy or literal learning that determines who is best equipped for work. When all students are lifted to the highest possible level, we achieve a society with less differences. One of the reasons why over eight years, the Right has strengthened the municipal economy by about 35 billion. kr, is right-wing high ambitions for the school. We have strengthened teacher training, we have completed a large-scale follow-up and further training of Norwegian teachers, and we have strengthened the number of hours in primary school. For the right, it is important that teachers have a good career development, even if they do not want to go into administration and management. Therefore, the government of Solberg established the teacher-specialist system for those who want to bet heavier on teaching. The teacher-specialist scheme has two main objectives. The first is that skilled and committed teachers are given the opportunity to develop professionally, and that it motivates them to continue to teach. The second is to strengthen the professional community and the development of the school as a learning organisation. The teacher-specialist scheme, which was established at national level in 2015, has now been scrapped by the red-green batches. It is regrettable on behalf of both teachers, students and society. The Solberg government's proposal for a State budget included an extension of the hour in order to provide students with an extra hour in the youth field. The red-green parties have made their mark on school policy. They have removed the teacher-specialist system, removed the natural language, and removed quality requirements for teachers. The only thing the red-greens have for the schools is that the municipalities are now being encouraged to have the most mainstream schools possible. We have gone from a government that was concerned with quality and learning in school to a government that will lower the ambitions of Norwegian students, and that has a scattered school structure as its only goal. Where the Right is engaged in the services provided, unfortunately other batches are more concerned with how they are delivered. They have a focus on systems, not on the inhabitants. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have agreed on a verbal decision that ‘will set up by March 2022 a public body to assess how commercial operations can be phased out in various tax-funded welfare services’. This is potentially very intrusive in the ability of municipalities to organise their services. The verbal proposal doesn't exactly testify that the three parties on the left have an understanding of value creation. For municipalities, it is a fundamental freedom to be able to organise itself as it serves the best — whether the cleaning of municipal buildings is to be carried out by municipal employees or by a professional cleaning agency, whether the transport of letters is to be carried out by municipal employees, or by a professional bidding firm, such as Post Norway AS, whether home services are to be provided only by municipal employees, or whether residents who do not have a thick wallet are also to be given the opportunity to choose private services. It may be tempting to ask whether the representatives of the government parties also believe that the profits in the production of food for municipal canteens and large kitchens should be removed at all stages back to the farmer. Profite is a natural and necessary part of society. Another word for profit is profit. Deficit establishments provide unsafe jobs. Establishments that over time have a deficit, die and place the employees on the street. Right wants a healthy, productive business that provides safe jobs and tax revenues that can finance our common well-being. We have to get away from the suspicion of healthy businesses that stand for the left, and appreciate businesses that are able to create profits and secure jobs. We policymakers need to be more concerned with the services provided to the citizens of municipalities than with the detailed governance of how municipalities choose to organise the production of services. We simply have to be more concerned with people than with the systems. It is quite funny to see the distrust of the three parties who have gone to elections for a so-called trust reform, showing to the local politicians. Local politicians are given confidence as long as they choose exactly the solutions that apply to government parties. It throws an orwellish veil on the concept of trust reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1092	One of the main tasks of the EEAS is to adopt a budget for the country. The budgetary agreement negotiated with SV by the Centre Party and the Workers' Party will result in less geographical and economic differences. The municipalities are the budget winner, just as the Central Party promised in the election campaign. When municipalities get more money, people across the country can get better services. The free income of the local government sector increases by 4.5 billion. kr; it's $2.50. kr more than the Solberg Government's budget proposal. I'm not going to quote the poem "I'm thinking about my municipality" by Jon Hjørnevik, it may have done more before me in this room. We're not going to have too many quotes in our posts either, I've learned, but the poem is recommended. Local economy is not boring, local economy is our everyday life: it is security for our kids, for the elderly and for our neighbor in a community that makes it possible to live a good life throughout the country. It is good kindergartens with time for the young, so we are concretely strengthening with more pedagogues in kindergartens. There are schools where the kids live, so the municipalities get 0.5 million. kr for each primary school they have. Secondary education is important for many communities. It's often the very nerves of the community. SFO is a learning and community arena, so first classes are now given free half-day space from the next harvest. Good and equivalent healthcare throughout the country provides security. Among other things, we have a fixed crisis. So we're going to spend 100 million. to recruit several general practitioners in specialisation where most is needed, and to strengthen the bodyguard of the municipalities that are struggling to recruit. This budget provides training for more midwives and cancer nurses. It also contributes to good municipal health and care services. Reduced maximum cost in kindergartens also means a lot too many. The same is true of our reduction of the unsocial cut of the Solberg government in resource-intensive services. This is a system that means a lot to municipalities with many recipients of, and high costs of, resource-intensive services. It would also provide poorer services to all residents of municipalities because this is a significant cost in many municipal budgets. In the Hurdal platform we announced a more active housing policy, and when the Husbank loan framework is strengthened, it means that over a thousand more families can go from renting to owning their own housing. The districts shall be built up and be set up. One of several approaches to rural policy is buildingagreements. There is a new approach in district policy to strengthen business and housing in vulnerable areas of District Norway. We also start introducing free dental care. At first, the 21 and 22 year-olds receive half the price, while the dental services in the counties are strengthened. The government has ambitions in the dental field and the Center Party's goal is to equate dental care with other health services. The Budget Agreement between the Centre Party and the Workers' Party has been negotiated with SV, takes Norway in a new and fairer direction. We prioritise solutions that give ordinary people a better everyday life, so that they can live a good life no matter what municipality they live in. In Norway, we're equal. Most of us want it just like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1113	Norwegian society is like a large family — a strong community where everyone depends on each other. If the family is to be well, everyone in the family must be taken care of. Young people must have a good and safe upbringing, adults must have a safe job and a wage to live on, and the elderly must receive the help and care they need. Here the municipalities of Norway play a crucial role. In order to carry out this great task, the municipalities must have a proper framework and resources, and I am proud to say that we now have a government that, together with the Swedish authorities, is fulfilling its promises to strengthen the local government's economy, and that provides better well-being and strong communities throughout the country. With the budget today, we're strengthening the free income of the municipalities by 4.5 billion. kr. It is good and important, because municipalities face major challenges, not least in health and care. Over the next 25 years, we'll have twice as many over 80 years as we do today. Just take the municipality of Lillehammer: Today they have 1,500 people over 80 years. Only in this period, in a few years' time, there will be twice as many. It says something about the challenge we as a society are facing. And with a society that changes so drastically, the municipalities have to change as it does. There is a need for conversion, strong measures and a good community economy. The country is in a serious pandemic with extreme pressure on municipalities and health services. Skilled health care, kindergarten and school staff are again in a very demanding situation. The municipalities and the employees are the defense agency for all of us against the virus. The Stortinget must also provide the municipalities. This government says that the municipal sector should be compensated for increased costs and lost revenue associated with the corona management in 2022. Today, the Stortinget adopts a good budget for Kommune-Norway. If we adjust for estimated extra costs for demography, retirement and earmarking, the action space will be increased by 3 billion. kr in the first budget. In comparison, the action space increased in the period 2013 to 2021 by an average of 0.5 billion. kr annually. That means that our government has done almost as much for municipalities in eight weeks as the previous government did in eight years. The municipalities throughout the country are the engine and the support bar of our solid welfare state. Of course, it's about good welfare, but it's also about value creation and jobs. And yes, the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV are engaged in value creation and jobs and think it is good that companies go ahead with profits. This government reintroduces district policy and replaces a district minister with policy, action and action to benefit the whole country. Let's do that, for example. by decomposing 1.3 billion. D to targeted regional and regional policy instruments. When the Right has not heard that there is a need for regional development funds, we must have been at very different meetings. This budget is the first step towards taking the country in a new and fairer direction. We believe in strong communities, and therefore we want to strengthen the welfare state. And because we want more jobs across the country, we want to pursue a more active industrial policy where municipalities are equipped to play an important role. We've got a government for ordinary people, which allows people to live a good life throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1132	The teacher is the most important single factor in learning, and good teachers are the key to children’s learning joy, mastering and future participation in a fast-changing working life. That is why the Right on its watch has invested in the teachers and provided many opportunities for professional replenishment – precisely because they have a key role in society. A good school is the most important social policy tool we have. In addition to caring for the most vulnerable among us, it is giving all children and young people good training in the school's most important task. If the municipalities fail in that social mission, we will not achieve our common goal of increased implementation in high school and increased participation in the labour market. Therefore, it is alarming – and sadly – that the government Støre systematically prioritises structure rather than content and quality in the provision of students. The government chooses, among other things: in its draft budget, to give priority to the big money for primary schools. They're going to take 1.25 billion. kr on a primary school structure adapted to the childhood coal of the past. It's to introduce municipalities that don't plan for the future. When the government finances this through a redistribution of the community grant, it is bad news for the students, and it could be tempting to ask if all children are equally worth it for this government. For Norway to succeed in conversion and maintain housing in the districts – throughout this diverse, long-range, beautiful country in which everyone in this room is so happy – we must ensure that all children have a high-quality school offer. As a society, we are able to do this well — and only then — we are laying the foundation for change and innovation, new jobs and a functioning Norway into the future. If we fail to give all children equal opportunities to succeed, the consequences for the welfare community are great. This will lead to increased disparities and more people will be out of work. We can't afford that. It is the Right’s basic position and strong belief that everyone deserves equal opportunities, regardless of background, residence and who their parents are. Therefore, we are strongly critical that the government does not prioritize the large amount of money on knowledge and quality at school. The school is for today's students and their learning, not for Uncle Johan to celebrate his national day at the school where he himself was a student in the 1950s. The government wants more people to choose the teaching profession, that it should be attractive to be a teacher, and that teachers should want to stay in school. It's an ambition The right share is full, and that's exactly why we put in place the teacher-specialist system. Teachers also deserve career paths in their profession. It is alarming that the government removed the scheme only days before the final report came, which clearly shows that both teachers and municipalities believe it was a good arrangement. I wonder how the government will create attractive environments of competence for young, motivated and knowledgeable teachers across the whole country. How will the government help keep the good teachers in the classroom when the first thing they do is to remove the possibility of depression and career paths? The idea strikes me that perhaps it would have been a good idea to put the money together and strengthen the skills of schools according to the student numbers of the future. At that time, social teachers could also be given priority and the presence of health care professionals in schools throughout the country, because that is what is needed. And the teachers need good work environments where they can develop their skills with other teachers and get security of what is their most important task, namely teaching. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the municipalities, school leaders and teachers of the country for the work they have done for the country in the two difficult years we have been through. More than ever before, it has become clear to us how important each one of them is in the great puzzle society represents.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1156	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1161	We got a new government after the election, and we get a promise on the local economy as we promised before the election. The municipalities have a lot to do. Those who work there stand on every single day to provide good welfare, ensure that water and sewerage work, and provide home help and that those who live in institutions receive attention and needed help. Now in the last few months, the municipalities and the employees there have also been the spearhead in dealing with the pandemic situation. We can be proud of our municipalities and those who work there. But it costs to promote well-being out there in the municipality of Norway, and both in this area of the Stortinget and our colleagues in local politics have great ambitions and want welfare services to be optimal, with local adaptations and solutions. Now the new government is adding 2.5 billion to the table. kr more to the municipalities than the Solberg Government proposed in its State budget. That's a lot of money, and they're coming along well. The problems are many and large, and the growth in free income is now 4.5 billion. kr. We also reverse the proposal to increase the top level of funding by 300 million. kr – a proportion that has only increased in recent years and with which the municipalities have been increasingly struggling. This government is and will be a government for the city and the country, with budget priorities that will help ordinary people all over the country. This government will take the country in a new and fairer direction. This government will be investing in work for everyone and good services near where people live. And this government will have stronger communities. In such a political direction, a strengthened economy for the municipalities is absolutely fundamental. I myself – perhaps countless times in recent years – have been on this pulpit, thinking and saying that the local economy was not prioritised. That's what I stand for today. During the Solberg government, large tax cuts were prioritised to the wealthiest of the country, to those with most of the time, while the bill was sent to the municipalities and residents of the country, with large tax increases for most people and municipal budgets that did not cover up for the tasks they have and were charged. Now I am pleased and proud that we have received a government that sees Municipality-Norway as part of strengthening our Community solutions, a government that actually prioritizes money for welfare solutions in the municipalities rather than large tax cuts to the country's best place. Such a policy is the right way to go, and now we've started that way. For example, the municipalities in Østfold receive about 93 million. kr more than the Solberg government proposed. That means something. So now we're going to see the value of the city and the land together. We're going to spend our common money to benefit ordinary people. We're going to contribute to good and safe jobs for people. We're going to help us have good community services and stronger communities. We're going to contribute to an active state, which is present, that can be involved and uplift and make use of the entire country. We're going to take Norway in a new and fairer direction. The draft budget for municipalities and counties that are being discussed here today is a good start and shows a new policy direction for this. I'm proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1176	I'm going to be like André Skjelstad from the Left, using my post to essentially talk about the Center Party's policy. Politics is about priority, and one of the priorities of the Centre Party is to put the whole country into practice. A new government and a new plurality provide a new policy course – a political course with more room for community, a political course with less differences between people and a political course to take the whole country into action. For the Central Party, it is important that people and parts of the country that were previously ignored are now to be seen. It is a budget that focuses more on ‘us’ and ‘our’ and less on ‘me’ and ‘mit’. A raise for the local government sector of 2.5 billion. kr makes a difference – more to well-being and local service provision. I record that the representative Njåstad from the Progress Party is trying to minimize our investment in the municipal sector. In municipalities after municipalities, a budget for the next year is now being treated, and they see that growth is a difference. It is also important that local authorities now have a place in solving their tasks, rather than taking out and implementing state-dictated coercive measures. There is something fresh when the representative Kapur from Right is talking that the municipal reform was necessary because Norway has changed. I want to look at the outcome of the municipal reform. For my constituency, Rogaland, it is that Rennesøy, Finnøy and Forsand have disappeared from the map. To me, it's still a mystery what changes in Norway it was that just removing these three municipalities was the right answer. With our government, the focus has been moved from the borders to the tasks and the offerings. Norway will once again have a district policy. The ferry prices are one example. With the Solberg government's arrangement, the ferry prices from New Year's Eve would have gone up. With our budget, the ferry prices are going down. It's politics. But there are many more examples. With the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left in position, one could always be sure that no matter what question, the answer was centralization. We must pursue a strong rural policy with an active agricultural policy. We're going to secure car games and free ferries. We're going to make it cheaper to fly. We need to get better tax rules for commuters. We're going to bet on the municipalities. We're going to build broadband. In all cases, we'll think of Norway as a whole. The time when district policy was symbolism is over. We have no district minister in Norway anymore, and that is because for the Central Party is all rural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1191	During the period 2013–2021, the government of Solberg carried out a major effort to modernise and digitise Norway. Solberg’s government’s commitment to digitisation and technology has led to Norway’s being at or near the top of the vast majority of quality rankings of public services and ratings of how far digitalisation has come. Healthy housing and digital driving licences are just two of the many important innovations that have taken place. The Solberg government provided several key messages and strategies for the digitisation of Norway. In particular, I would like to draw attention to Report. St. 27 for 2015–2016, Digital Agenda for Norway – ICT for a simpler everyday life and increased productivity. A good example of good interaction between the public and private sectors is the full-time housing trade. The government’s mapping system has digitised its entire asset disclosure process, the Tax Authority has given consumers the opportunity to provide consent-based access for banks to the tax return, and the financial industry has created BankID and a lucky infrastructure that implements the entire residential trade in a secure and digital way, saving both consumers and businesses for time and money. I'm not going to mention Altinn, which from 1 January 2020 is under the Digitalisation Directorate. Altin is at the heart of much of the communication between public institutions and citizens and businesses. The Directorate has concluded that the average business life of Altin saves 2.5 hours on each individual reporting. With 14 million reports, it represents an annual savings of nearly 16 billion. kr. Reduced reporting time and bureaucracy provide more time for value-generating activities. The government has made few active moves in the field of digitalisation and innovation, and we may not expect the government to move so much in an area where it has no clear ambitions. Thus much of what the government of Solberg started in the field of digitisation is being continued. However, two approaches that the government has found time to put in, are the winding-up of StartOff, which is about exploiting the creativity and innovativeness of the start-up environments, to help the state solve the challenges of the future, as well as the removal of funding for buildingSMART, which will weaken efforts to ensure better flow of digital product data in the construction industry. Right-wing wants to continue digitisation and innovation in the public sector and wants to maximise the country’s ability to exploit it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1206	For a boy who's lived his whole life within a radius of 2 km in Oslo 6, it's good to know that we now have a great majority and a government that follows the old slogan City and Land hand in hand. But it's not just a slogan. Of course, more important than slogans is that words are filled with politics and content. And here it comes quickly from the new government and the big crowd. We have adopted a budget for ordinary people all over the country. When Norwegian municipalities and counties get almost 4.5 billion. kr more to route with next year, it means something for the welfare of people in our country. It means good services near people, whether they live in Greenland or in Grenland. I've been the head of a district committee here in Oslo, and I've been the head of the finance committee in Oslo City Council for six years. It's in the municipality and the neighborhood people live their lives. This is where, through the budget decision of the Grand Duchy, better opportunities are given to build stronger communities, build a community of good kindergartens, good schools, leisure and cultural services, good home services and good care for the elderly. These, along with safe work for all, are absolutely crucial prerequisites for people of all ages, of all sexes and regardless of residence and social background to be able to live a good, free life. From my living room at home, I'm going to Bøler school. The youngest kids who have had free SFO or activity school for several years. All first-graders in Oslo have free SFO. It means increased participation and better integration, and the association, play and learning after school have become a new and important common arena. That is why I am very pleased that all first-raters throughout Norway will receive free SFO. Good welfare policies help to reduce differences. The fight to reduce disparities in living conditions, to ensure social mobility and to prevent child poverty is an important issue for government. That's why it's good that Stortinget gives more money to strengthen the area stakes in the big cities. I look forward to the government delivering a separate case of living conditions in the cities in the next year, because the municipalities and the state have to play a team. It's a big job to do, and it's not done in a year or two. If we are to succeed in the area efforts, we need to address the basic structural challenges of poverty, the lack of education and the fact that too many are out of work. The government is taking Norway in a new and fairer direction. The majority of the population follow up through wise and good budgetary decisions, which benefit most people throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1221	Municipal economy is not the most sexy word in the Norwegian social debate. Nevertheless, few things are of such importance to people in practice as that, for many of the most important services to our citizens are offered locally. It is in the municipalities we meet children and young people every day and will lay the basis for the generation that will take over and become workers in the future. That's where we can catch the kids that fall outside, and that's where we can make sure that sick and elderly people get the help they need. Unfortunately, the Solberg government does not seem to have understood this, for the last eight years, the result for the municipal sector is greater demands and greater challenges, but less room for action. It is shown by the fact that in 2015 the number of municipalities with negative operating result was 59. In 2019, on the other hand, the year before the pandemic, this number had tripled to 186. Now let's start cleaning up and upgrading. In the Centerpartiet, Arbeiderpartiet and SV's first budget, we increase the limits of the municipalities and county municipalities by a total of 2.5 billion. kr. It means something to people, for example. for those who live: in Steinkjer, where they could now keep their environmental therapists in school and bet more on early work in Trondheim, where they are now strengthening elderly care staff and receiving funds for more area interventions to improve living conditions in less-favoured areas; in Overhalla, where they can now continue to be a municipality of excellence in the work of climate-smart construction and energy production, which also equips the municipality for the future without jeopardising the production of services; in Oppdal, where the rapporteur says that they can now see if they are using the reinforcement for example. facilitating more planning time in kindergartens or keeping the local youth club open on Saturday evenings; I, like so many others in this room and residents all over the country, started and have my great political commitment to the nearby things – to the schools in my hometown, so that the young people get a little better offer at the local leisure club, and to facilitate a good life regardless of where you live, or the starting point you have. That is why I am extremely pleased that it is precisely these matters that are the winners in this year's budget and with the new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1247	Homes in Vestfold and Telemark have been filled with, for example: budget this week. I know that our budgetary settlement helped to raise the mood. Traveling collectively is climate-smart, but in many places in the country there were reported reductions in the bus offer as a result of fewer traveling collectively through the corona era. In the Central Party and in the Labour Party's budgetary settlement with SV, it is among other things. granted 500 million. kr to the county to compensate for reduced revenue for public transport. The number of people traveling collectively rose again after the reopening, but flattened to between 75 and 80 pst. of the level in 2019. Now, with partial shutdown, these means come with extra good. Traveling collectively is climate-smart. We have to keep doing that. Therefore, the Hurdal platform says that we want half the price of ferry tickets and free ferries on routes with less than 100000 passengers, and we are in good repair. Good and reasonable ferry services ensure development and increased coastal value creation. In addition, more money for racial protection and the county road gives many a safer everyday life. If we are to solve the climate crisis, we must both cut emissions and create jobs. That is why we have set out a billion greens to advance the transition to renewables and new jobs, to strengthen the possibility of using a zero-emission vehicle and to increase the capacity to develop hydrogen and sea wind. Access to climate-friendly solutions is also important. That's why it's set at 100 million. kr to Enova, as part of a comprehensive loading effort throughout the country. High-speed broadband is essential for housing and workplaces. It should be safe, good and possible to live throughout the country. In the budget agreement, we're increasing broadband funding by 100 million. kr. The State assumes greater responsibility for broadband development in areas where it is not economically viable. The centre party has been working for many years to ensure that everyone has a fast internet home. In the pandemic now we've seen how important it is with good broadband for home offices and home school. It's about preparedness. Otherwise, it is simply a matter of quality of life – the possibility of home offices, digital education and video chatting with grandmother. This budget takes Norway in a new and fairer direction. We will provide good services to people, work to everyone and good infrastructure throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1264	I want to stress what the municipal minister said earlier in the debate, that when we are in the middle of a pandemic that is so tough and very, very tiring for very many of them added across the country, and also in Norwegian municipalities, it is crucial to ensure good basic funding. The budget allocated to Kommune-Noreg for 2022 is thus of great importance. The fact that we are now clear on both the compensation and the continuation of the working group, as the committee says unanimously, is very good. Then there's one thing that's a little bit eye-catching. For many years I have thought that the Progress Party in the Opposition is running with a clever form of budgeting, but the Progress Party has gained government experience, our support wheels for the Right for a few years – and then the representative Njåstad says in the debate today that the Progress Party's alternative state budget is intended for an ideal value. This is the Storting, this is the Norwegian National Assembly, where we present alternative budgets that I expect all parties think they could run the country. If the Progress Party's alternative state budget had been approved today, we would have laid down the State administrator in January – in the middle of a pandemic – with entirely decisive preparedness and coordination in the Norwegian community. I'm just going to mention it. A few comments on something that has come up in the debate, to the right: it's not that the one-year-old StartOff scheme will be terminated; we just don't increase the permissions. So she gets carried on, but what we've said is that a desire to have experience from the one-year-old scheme before one might consider a reinforcement. When it comes to digitisation, there is something of which both the Labour Party and the Center Party are very concerned. The Digital Life Strategy is largely passed on, with a level of 8 million. kr, and then we do some other priorities, such as: strengthening broadband investment. Getting the speed of broadband expansion in those parts of the country where it is not socially viable is very important, including from a digital perspective, because we want people to be able to work and live across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1281	The State of Norway is established in the territory of two peoples: the North and the Sami. Norway shall be a leading country in respect of the rights of indigenous peoples. We will ensure good framework conditions for culture, industry, society and Sami languages. Same people should have a real opportunity to learn Sami, use it in everyday life and deliver it to the next generation. The societal mission of the Sameting is to secure and develop together as people and indigenous peoples. It's a big mission and it's spreading across all social spheres. The Sami people have great expectations of the Sameeting. The overall responsibility for organising and financing Sami language work shall lie with the main task of strengthening and developing languages in the future. As a trouser, I know the South Sami best. Trøndelag is located in the middle of the long-distance southern Sami area. The southern Sami language is on UNESCO's list of seriously threatened languages. There are many fields where we have to work to avoid losing it. In 2008, Snåsa became the first Southern Sami municipality in the Sami language management area. As a result, Nord-Trøndelag County became a bilingual county municipality. It's included in the new Trøndelag. The cooperation agreement with the Sameting is important in the preservation and development of the language. Purification is also essential for the Sami language and culture. The daily exercise of reindeer management is culture-bearing and identity-creating. There are points of light in the same policy. The heart language is increasingly used among young people, and I have the impression that several families with children want to give the heart language a place in the growth of children. However, there is a lack of competence and teaching skills in education. More measures, such as: Sámi teacher training grant schemes are important. The Sami museums are important institutions for the preservation and dissemination of the Sami cultural heritage. The Sameting has the administrative responsibility for six consolidated Sami museums. The Southern Sami Saemi Sijte on Snåsa is among the oldest – almost 60 years. After many years in awkward conditions, they shall immediately, in the new year, move into newly built premises. They get the key today, actually. The budget takes into account their increased rental costs. A strongly elected body in the Sameting is important for the democratic position of indigenous peoples nationally and for raising issues affecting indigenous peoples in international forums. The pooling must be provided with sufficient resources to fulfil that role.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1300	After eight years with a right government that has put equality in reverses and increased the differences between people and between city and country, it is a great pleasure that we now have a government that sets a new course for ordinary people. The results of the elections in the fall clearly showed that people wanted a new direction – a new direction where everyone could live a good life and have good welfare services, regardless of where you live or the size of the moneybook, and have good and safe jobs to go to, whether you live in the village or in the city. We are now delivering an increase of 4.5 billion. NOK to municipalities for 2022. For Nordland alone, the municipalities receive 116 million. kr and over 30 mills. kr extra in free revenues, and almost as much to reduce ticket prices for the ferries. It means more well-being across the country, more care for the elderly, a better school, increased quality of kindergartens and the strengthening of dental services. We're also reversing the Solberg government's proposed $300 million cut. SEK in grants for resource-intensive services. Together, this will strengthen the economy of municipalities and enable them to provide better services to citizens, who are required to provide comprehensive health and care services. Municipalities and county councils face formidable tasks in the future. We are getting older, and especially in the care and care services, we need to be rigged to meet the need. We also have major challenges with children and young people in the field of mental health. We have a fixed crisis, and we have an alarming need for professionals in our welfare services. All the problems and challenges we can't solve in the eight weeks that the new government has had, but we've got a lot, and we've taken a big, big hold. We provide a budget that gives municipalities and county councils the opportunity to provide good services to the inhabitants, run development and not liquidation. Too many municipalities have experienced cuts on cuts and a state that has run off for several years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1314	We are all well aware that the housing market is not functioning well, either in the press areas or in the districts. In the Hurdal platform we warn of a more active housing policy. We will. an opportunity for more people to own their own dwellings; developing a good living environment facilitating the construction of more than one dwelling have a climate-friendly construction activity We have several specific objectives to allow more people to stay longer at home in their own home. Among other things, we are proposing on the platform to set up a new grant scheme for housing in the districts, and we are taking the initiative for an old-age housing programme. Already in 2014, the Solberg government brought down a subsidy scheme introduced by the previous red-green government, called Housing in the districts. Under that scheme, nearly 300 new dwellings were built and a further 115 were granted a grant in the last year of the scheme. The scheme also contributed to building new knowledge of the housing market in the districts. The experience of the grant scheme is locally used by municipalities to develop the housing market of municipalities. In line with the Hurdal platform, the government will provide investment grants to municipalities to ensure sufficient security housing for those who need it. Yes, we have cut off the Solberg government's proposal for a small pilot and black that we want to develop a model that benefits all municipalities, not just a few. Now we're going to develop new housing policy tools both in cities and districts, for both those who don't get into a housing market with housing prices increasing year by year, and the elderly who want to have the opportunity to live at home as long as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1338	The debate so far has taken up a great many subject areas. It is natural, as municipalities and county councils provide services in the vast majority of areas. There are two of them I think deserve a little more attention. The right-hand side has today underlined the need for profit, or ‘surplus’, as it was clarified, in business, and also in private welfare providers — welfare actors funded by our common resources, taxes paid by all of us to ensure good services to our citizens. And it's going to go to just that, not for the profit of a few, and eventually large, commercial groups. The right-hand side also claims that the left-hand side has mistrusted the private kindergartens. I can cancel it; we don't. We have not mistrusted either the private, the ideal, the voluntary or the diversity they represent, but we do not want to use the community's funds to make what are now five large groups take advantage of themselves and in some cases put them into tax havens. There is therefore a need for understanding and control of our common resources, and if there is nothing to hide, you are probably not negative about it either. We have great power as politicians, we have to manage the community's resources and large tax revenues. We have to take responsibility and follow up on the fact that it provides good welfare services back to our citizens. So to the second topic that has been much debated today: merging municipalities and county municipalities or – to put it bluntly – disintegrating them. Today, the right has claimed that this is a policy that has been necessary, not because the Right wants to change the map, but because Norway has changed. This is one of the areas where you do not choose to listen to local self-government or local politicians. Some states have joined together voluntarily, and it's obviously where it's been most successful. Others have only waited for the opportunity to split up inappropriately large counties, which they now have the opportunity to do. In some places this process is a political study worthy of consideration. In Westfold and Telemark, SV and the rest of the left side were against a merger, but it did not help – merging was the case. Now you have the opportunity to solve – thanks to a new government – but with costs and burdens that are likely to exceed the gain. The left-hand side therefore takes responsibility. We're working on this project, we're avoiding fights, we're taking the task seriously to create a strong county municipality that can provide services. Right-wing politicians, on the other hand, will now dissolve the state that they themselves forced to merge. Yes, the rapporteur in Sandefjord is even ready to go on a torch to get it dissolved, regardless of the cost to the employees, inappropriate costs and resource use in the event of a reversal. I would humbly encourage the Right and Right sides to create predictability and be consistent in their policies. It deserves our locally elected people out there. We need to have an overall approach and secure a good county municipality that still provides good services to all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1355	I am pleased that the Right in Government, together with the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, helped to strengthen the community economy in the years we managed. I think it is tempting, when I hear this debate, to remind you of the size of the municipalities' free revenues. The municipalities get over 400 billion. kr paid in free income per year. Now the red-green government has brought an increase of 2.5 billion. kr. That means you have an increase in the free income of less than 1 pst, so far over 0.5 pst. To believe the representatives here in the hall, it's an increase of less than 1 pst, or so far than 0.5 pst, which is the difference between a terrible municipal structure and a fantastic municipal structure. I think the truth is that you've actually had a pretty good community economy in recent years. The right in government has contributed to an increase in free income by over 35 billion. kr. We also see that there are record few municipalities on the ROBEK list, and the municipal wallets have more than doubled in recent years. It was interesting to hear the representative Rune Støstad, who also comes up to the pulpit soon, saying that the municipalities have now experienced a growth of 3 billion. kr in one year, and that he compared it to the growth of the civil government over eight years. Then it is tempting to ask the question to Støstad as well: can the municipalities expect an equal growth in the free revenues next year? I see that Støstad should keep posts after me, so he would like to answer that question. The representative Grete Wold was in the pulpit before me and demanded predictability from the right in connection with a dissolution process initiated by a government representative Wold himself supports. I think the best thing to do in order to develop the service offer in the future would have been to let the county councils, many of which are likely to say that they do not want dissolution, be allowed to continue with it. The same applies to municipalities around us, where we see that there are quite a number of municipalities that are merged but do not want any dissolution. Finally, I would just like to stress the importance of continuing the social work. It is incredibly important that more people are given the opportunity to live in owned dwellings, especially people with low incomes. One of the important changes that the Right made in the government was to change the start-up loan scheme, so that those who needed the most received the most support. It has never been paid out more in start-up loans in Norway, which has also happened under a civil government. Those who were given priority were the least of their advice. We saw that the previous red-green government chose to give priority to young people in the start-up phase, who might have the potential to get higher incomes gradually. I hope that we continue to give priority to those who need it the most, rather than giving a little bit to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1366	As a municipal politician and appointed in a municipality, I have worked to design services with an increasingly meagre municipal budget. True it or not, but often it's about a thousand notes trying to move around in the budget to get a more liberal economy in different services. Local politicians work with a high budget and have had less to spend in the last eight years, and as a municipal politician, I am glad that today we are going to adopt a budget that will provide better room for action for our municipalities. A municipal politician often engages in politics because he wants to improve his daily lives for the inhabitants, for example by: school provision, drug and health services and better care for the elderly. Cutting services is one of the most difficult things a municipal politician does. With this budget, municipal politicians can plan for better services and a better future for their citizens. This is a budget for ordinary people throughout the country, because it is the inhabitants who will actually get better services for their children, young people and the elderly. This will give good services to people where people live and live their lives. Today, we adopt a municipal budget that will provide better services to both city and country, with actual measures such as free core time in the SFO and cheaper kindergarten. With this budget, Norway's government is taking a new and fairer direction, where one sees human beings living out in our vast country. One of the most important things for a municipal politician is to have jobs that make people bow or move to the countryside. Through safe work for all developers, there is a local environment and several other workplaces. It is imperative to have a stable local economy. Investing in jobs and green industries in the districts is important. People who are going to live and work in the countryside must have access to health services, schools and kindergartens. It is crucial for people to seek work, and for families to be able to live in the municipality throughout their lives. I am proud that this government in just eight weeks has built a budget that will provide stronger communities, stronger local economy and better services to our citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1381	The government that we have now received has in a short time put forward a proposal for a government budget that prioritises spending money on what matters to people in everyday life. The agreement entered into with SV does not change on it. We will ensure that children and young people have a safe and educational environment every day in kindergarten and at school, that older people can live an active life and have a dignified care towards the end of life. Municipalities and county councils provide the basic welfare services to all those living in Norway and are those who ensure living communities. The municipalities and the counties build the house where business is, and where people live and live their everyday lives. At the same time, we are still in the middle of a pandemic, which further reinforces the problems of many communities, businesses and people throughout the country. The municipalities and health workers are making a fantastic effort to mitigate the effects of the pandemic. The background to difficult decisions in many municipalities is that they have experienced a significant increase in the cost of care services in recent years, far beyond the price increase, while requirements have increased. That's why we're following the promises to the Municipality of Norway and we're proposing to increase the free income of the municipal sector by 4.5 billion. kr. That's $2.50. kr more than the Solberg Government's draft budget, and it shall give local authorities room for action to provide better services. I record that there are some representatives from the Right and others who believe that this does not matter in everyday life, but that is not the case for a very large number of municipalities. That's what's the difference – whether you cut or have a little bit left for development. It has not been said that it solves the problems of absolutely all local and regional politicians who are in difficult decisions, but it makes it a little easier. It's a strong bet that comes into place in a short time. The basic principle of the Central Party is that state transfers to municipalities and counties should ensure that everyone has the opportunity to provide equivalent services to people throughout Norway. The problem for some cannot be solved by making it more difficult for others. Thus, the size has taken a decision that all public transport by sea should be zero and low-emission transport by 2025. This has led to enormous extra costs for the counties, where the ferry insurrection put this on the agenda when the prices were increased. I live in one of Norway's largest ferries, and what is now finally being done to lower prices, provide security for the offer, and not least that it will be free on many connections, shows that we are following the promises in the election campaign. It's joyous and shows the way. The budgetary agreement makes the first steps to give Norway greater social and geographical cohesion, greater security for people, better services in everyday life and not least more Norwegian jobs. It is a direction that believes in the whole of Norway and shows a new course.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1400	I come from Orkland, a new and merged municipality, which previously consisted of Agdenes, Snillfjord, Meldal and Orkdal municipalities. I can assure the opposition, and especially the Right, that the inhabitants of new Orkland greatly appreciate the government's granting 7.2 million. kr more for 2022 than the right government proposed. It provides an increased framework for the municipality, which strengthens the next year's budget in the following areas: One and a half million. SEK for work against outsiders at school 0.4 million. kr to the Tax Chamber Orkland prioritizes funds for more apprentices NOK 320 000 more for sport the municipality receives its own dementia coordinator; EUR 200 000 for the volunteer centre in extra support; Orcland implements a historical commitment to road safety extra money for Norwegian minority language training This makes a difference for those who get the money, who are common people in a middle municipality in Trøndelag. The budget we are dealing with today provides enhanced well-being across the country. Municipalities and counties get a real growth of 4.5 billion. kr. The county council has a total of 47 million. to strengthen cultural provision and to strengthen the offer of 32 secondary schools in Trøndelag. We're canceling the right-hand government's free school elections. I can assure the Right that all schools are very pleased that the government is acting so quickly and giving the schools and county the opportunity to maintain the offer in a good way. The municipalities of Trøndelag get more than 173 million. kr to enhanced well-being, resulting in minor differences. Efforts and quality are being made in kindergartens, schools and care for the elderly. This is an important difference for all those living in the entire Trøndelag, who have also been newly merged. The neighboring municipalities of Orkland, Skaun and Heim are being strengthened by 4.1 and 3.4 million respectively. kr for more well-being. We give free core time in the SFO for all first-rate classes, and we cut the maximum price in kindergarten by NOK 2 915. We're increasing the commuting discount, increasing the tax deduction for organised people, reducing the ferry prices and reducing the tax for anyone who earns less than 750,000 kroner. This means strengthening the family economy around the whole of Norway. We start a dental reform that targets young people and those who have special needs. We increase the appropriations for labour market measures, create 1000 more sites for action and about 250 more VTA sites. Hubs are reinforced by 100 million. kr. It provides room for closer follow-up of people outside the labour market. This is a budget that gets more people to work. It's good for the individual and good for society. Finally, for the Workers' Party, it is important to have regional instruments in business policy. In Orkland we have differentiated the employer's fee. I am pleased with this government following up that scheme, so that it can provide more jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1446	There is no doubt that we are now in the phase of the debate where the government parties are going to talk a bit on autopilot, but I note that the Labour Party and the Central Party's concerns are not related to their solutions. Let me do a couple of examples. You're very busy with ordinary people and how they're going to feel about it. At the same time, the taxes are set for teachers and midwives. One is concerned that we need to create more jobs and have a robust business life, while setting up the taxes with billions of dollars for those who are going to create these jobs. You are occupied with housing, while yourself sitting and ruling the country's capital, where housing is so slow and you are opposed to what people need to buy the most from – the small apartments – through the apartment norm. You're about to create your own inequality machine just through your own housing policy in Oslo. You're talking about inequality, but you're not saying who it is. We know that most people who are part of the inequality statistics have a short residence in Norway. Where are the government’s solutions to integration, Norwegian training — many of the measures that need to be taken in the years ahead if we are to succeed in this? When we're from the Right talking about our priorities, we also present solutions. Take this with inequality. If you are to do something about it, you have to have an integration policy that makes the way from being a refugee to becoming a taxable citizen as short as possible. Then it is important to continue the promise of knowledge, to create more jobs, to strengthen the area effort, to have a more social housing policy, to have increased child welfare. This is a completely concrete grip that the Right has been giving priority to the eight years we have been in government. What we see is that the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV are holding many parties about these things, while the bourgeois did something about it. Now I've heard a lot of people say, we've only had eight weeks. In at least eight weeks the tax has been set up. We know what happened when you had more than eight weeks on it -- we know what happened when this crowd had a clean majority for eight years. Then there was more government overmanagement, less conversion, higher taxes, reformers, more municipalities on the ROBEK list. The differences went up — yes, they did — and there was a break in knowledge policy. These are the facts. I wish we had some government parties that now went away from being a little on autopilot and started to present their solutions. Maybe it'll happen one more time next year -- we'll see.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1470	I was tempted to make a contribution to this debate on the basis of my ten-year experience as rapporteur in the municipality of Overhalla, a medium-sized, small municipality in Namdalen, Nord-Trøndelag – formerly also called the county of Nordre Trondhjem. My experience over the last eight years is that there have been very tight times for my municipality and neighboring municipalities in Namdalen. Because we chose not to join other municipalities, we were penalised financially. We had to carry that burden with us in very tight budget rounds with demanding priorities – I can promise you that. That is why I am very pleased to note that the new government in the Hurdal platform states that such economic sanctions should be removed, that they should be removed. In addition, it is very gratifying to see that the additional announcement by the new government just launched a new course in which people across Norway will experience that their lives, their interests and the challenges they face in everyday life are at the top of the agenda. We're going to build on the best we have, people and society, and increase confidence in the local government that every day does a formidable job for its citizens. It warned confidence reform in the public sector to be very exciting to follow. It is about providing employees with confidence and time to provide better services to users, and it should be designed in close interaction with user organisations, employees’ trustees and management. The aim is to restore trust and power to those who make up the first line and backbone of the welfare state, such as the teachers and nurses. The new government will not undertake reforms that create large units and large differences, or long and unclear chains of responsibility from decision-makers to those in the classroom or at a hospital bed and perform the job. In short, the government will give greater freedom to local and regional authorities. I am pleased to see that the financial plan of my own municipality is in balance in a completely different way. I notice that many arrows are gently ascending, and it was extra happy to see a small, dawning smile at the head of the economy when I met him recently. But I'll both wait and not least spare the president to sing: it's going to be OK now!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1483	I had drawn, because I thought it was coming to the end of the debate. Now I see that there are several others left, but I still take the chance to thank for the debate so far, at least, and will comment on some of the posts that have been held so far. First, a comment on the last article by the representative Kapur, which I believe was trying to describe a story that the number of ROBEK municipalities increased sharply under the red-green government. No, it really isn't like that. On the contrary, it was during the Bondevik II government that the number of ROBEK municipalities increased sharply year by year and reached nearly 120 municipalities. After the red-green government took over, it went down sharply, to the top of 40. So it's true that it's gone down a few years later, and at the beginning of this year there were 12 municipalities, but as I said in my main post, it's also got there that it's started tipping up again. The last numbers I have indicate that we're going out of the year with 18 municipalities on the ROBEK list. Then it was the representative of Kari-Anne Jønnes, who was involved in the primary school grant. Of course, it's a matter of having different opinions, but in that article, it was suggested that questions were raised whether all the kids are equally worth it. That's what I think deserves a comment. It is that the funds for municipalities are distributed in different ways, but if you want to understand that suggestion, it has to be that there are some municipalities that, in isolation, win, and some that lose on exactly that part of the income system and the transfers to the municipalities. If you were to use such reasoning, it almost had to mean that with the government's policy, the students were now worth more than they were with the policy of the Solberg government, which of course is not right. In fact, all municipalities get their economy strengthened. That's the point. All municipalities are strengthened in their economy and can therefore also help to provide better primary school provision. Finally: Mari Holm Lønseth was in a couple of relationships which I also want to comment on. She had not heard so much desire for more regional development funds and strengthening the county municipalities as seen. Well – at least I would like to say that an important part of the allocation to county councils has also been about continuing funds for, among other things. Innovation Norway, just to strengthen the economic development of District Norway. The county councils have been severely cut over these eight years, and we are now starting a revolution by strengthening Innovation Norway by 100 million. kr to green large-scale nutrition project in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1494	When the government, in conjunction with SV, strengthens the municipality's economy by 2.5 billion. kr, is because we want growth and development throughout the country, in the city and in the country. And one has to be almost right-wing politicians to suggest that billions don't matter, as Mari Holm Lønseth said just now. As rapporteur for six years, I have to say that the increase to which the government and the Swedish Government are now adding is good to get as a municipality. And yes, we have greater ambitions for the municipalities. In 1968, the then Prime Minister Per Borten stood on a stage built of newly produced chipboards in the middle of Gudbrandsdalen. It was the opening of Orkla's particle board factory in Kvam in front of thousands of fronts – an industrial adventure that would last until 2012. As in 1968, a new Norwegian food business operator is in the process of establishing itself in the closed factory premises. It's good news for the whole region, and that means a lot of new jobs. But such efforts do not come about by themselves, either in 1968 or today. Much effort is required from the public, not least from the municipalities. We now have a government to pursue a more active industrial policy that takes the whole country into action. My county, the Inland, is rich in what Norway needs more in the future, with the forest as an example – soil, water, technology, travel, culture and most of all the people who burn to develop their own communities. We want to build industry and more jobs of everything that grows, and then the forest is the best example, that's the gold of Inland and Norway. The Norwegian forest is a unique raw material. And like in 1968, as was done in Kvam, we want to contribute to more jobs on natural resources where people live. The use of resources available to you today, forest resources, is good industrial policy, it is good industrial policy, and it is good climate policy. The Hurdal platform is good, and together with SV, we have a budgetary settlement that shows how the government will exploit the opportunities that exist across the country. One hundred million. SEK 100 million for green investment in the districts. kr extra to broadband, 10 mill. Rural growth agreements – today we adopt a budget that gives new hope to Norway as a whole, an offensive commitment to well-being and more jobs throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1505	I have been following today's debate with interest and with little wonder, which means that I have now chosen to take the floor here today – not so much wonder when I am speaking to the municipal minister, who I see as a voice and solid and one who knows Municipality-Noreg out and in, but very often when I hear magnificence representatives of the government parties, especially from the party that now has the municipal minister, the centre party, and the party that is responsible for this government's life from day to day on the Stortinget, the Socialist Left Party. For one thing is certain: Commune-Noreg is facing enormous challenges in the years to come due to changes in demographics, an increasingly tough fight for labour and skills, climate change, lightning-fast technological shifts and a large-scale transformation of the Norwegian economy, which will put us all to the test. If we're going to do it, we're going to demand that Kommune-Noreg renew itself, organize itself in new ways, find smarter ways to do things, move resources where they need most, and do more and more in layers, across old borders from a very different time. Working on renewal – and I know everything about 10 years as a spokesman – is extremely demanding. Everyone prefers things to be like before, as far as possible, even though everyone inside knows that sooner or later things have to change – maybe just not right now. It strikes me when I hear this debate: Think of representatives from the Central Party and SV and, in part, the Workers' Party had been equally engaged and busy standing up for those in Municipality-Noreg who want to renew, as they are in cheering for and cheering for those who want to reverse and stop. Imagine if job number one now was to set full speed in state relocation and more freedom of state joining Oslo to move out of the district, instead of doing with first pen strokes, to cut the loops into new ways to get speed on state relocation, with the reason: Yes, but this is already taking care of itself. Think if those who are actually trying to create a stronger district Norway, with fewer old borders and more cooperation, could get a slap on their shoulders from those who are now ruling the country, and told us that we are cheering on you, we want them to succeed, we think they are tough who are changing, because it's important and right in the long term. But no, everything I hear is central party and SV politicians talking about that new municipalities have made things more complicated, more expensive and harder to recruit – as a final verdict, just two years after a reform has been implemented, where most of the time has been spent on the continuous crisis management of a pandemic. I don't think a municipal reform is the answer to everything, but I'm overestimated that in the future, we're going to secure a country that provides good services and makes it attractive to live everywhere, is conversion, change and reform part of the answer. And our job as the nation's national assembly is that we at least occasionally give a pat on the shoulders and cheers on those who dare to thrust their heads forward, and take initiative to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1519	Norway has a new Labour Party-Center Party government that will develop the whole country, which will listen to people, and will provide good services to people in both the countryside and the city. I have listened with interest to this debate and to a representative from the Right, among others. The representative, Kapur, who was concerned about having to get a municipal reform because Norway has changed. However, we did not get coercion of municipalities and counties because Norway has changed. We were forced to merge municipalities and counties because the Right has not changed, because the Right is concerned with centralization and economies of scale, and with coercion and override. But fortunately, in this election, we have a new majority who have a new plan for Norway, where we will listen to people, where we will listen to the local voices, where we will also listen to those who want to take back their old counties, such as in Akershus, where I live, where we have got the senseless construction Week down our heads, contrary to both the people and the people elected locally. We want back Akershus, Buskerud and Eastfold, and fortunately we've got a government playing along with us in that fight. I also record that the representative of Jøns from Oppland is concerned that we are now facilitating municipalities to maintain a good decentralised school structure in their area. But with the municipal structure we have, all municipalities in Norway will receive more income than they have today, both large and small municipalities. To the representative Tore Vamraak, who comes from the same state as myself, and who was concerned about how we set up a good school offer: Yes, one of the things that is important for a good school offer is to strengthen the school economy and strengthen the community economy. In Akershus, then, one with Arbeiderparti-Senterparti-Registration's arrangements, to which SV has joined, will see to it that the revenue is strengthened by 235 million. kr. In the municipality in which we both live, Lillestrøm municipality, it alone constitutes approx. Twenty-five million. kr, in addition to providing more money back to a municipality such as Lillestrøm Municipality, which has major challenges with so-called resource-requiring services. It is important – to strengthen the good services that you have for children, young people and older people around the municipalities – that you have the will to see all of Norway and the will to strengthen the local economy, as shown by this majority at the first crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1530	There have been many strange comments in this debate, in particular regarding the dissolution of coercive municipalities and counties, and it seems that our Council of State is now going to whip off and force these municipalities to separate teams. I can assure the House that the whip was thrown out with the Right State Councils in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. Now we're listening to the municipalities, and it's only by local initiative that we're going to implement such solutions. We are talking about coercive municipalities and counties who are now experiencing poorer services, greater distance disadvantages, difficulties in recruiting and at all a poorer service offer. When it is then a local initiative for dissolution, we will listen to the people. We have confidence in the people, and we have confidence in local democracy. It has been commented that we are engaged in a reversal in the middle of a pandemic, and that the municipalities should be strengthened to take unforeseen events. I almost have to refer to an episode from my local government: we have a municipal director who was positive to a municipal merger. The local government said no. After we had a major outbreak in the municipality only in July, where we had to coronatise a quarter of the municipality in three days, I think he said so that the rapporteur and the City Council in Oslo had become sweaty on their backs. And at the first municipal board meeting, he said, "Happy you didn't hear me." If we had not passed our own municipality, we would not have been flexible enough to handle this pandemic as well as we did. It was simply because we were a small organization and had the flexibility. To something quite different: both Kapur and Vamraak have been involved in digitisation, and so am I. There is absolutely a need for a shift in this area, and of course we must continue that development. But while they're concerned with digitization and talking about it in and out, they're missing the ground wall of their house. There are so many in this country who still do not have broadband access, who are not allowed to use these services, who do not have the opportunity to have a home office — yes, there are many who have not had the opportunity to do homework when they are in home school during the pandemic. Therefore, we need to build the ground wall first and make sure that everyone has access to broadband before we expect them to exploit it. In the end, several have been involved in regional development funds and have said that there is only some customs duty, and that there is no demand for it. I've been around all the municipalities with the committee for the last ten years, and I don't think I've been in a single municipality where they haven't asked for regional development funds to enable the municipality to assist business development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1541	In the spring I was with young people out who got their first work experience in planting forests. This was due to the fact that a majority in this Chamber, with the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Progress Party, secured additional funding for that action during the crisis. Some claim that this type of investment is not so much money, and it is the same arguments that come here today, when the government now takes Norway in a new and fairer direction. To take Kapur on the word with a concrete example: for Tynset, who is my home municipality, this budget means a little bit bigger economic muscles to help more young people with summer jobs. The municipality has launched a project to ensure that young people, and those who are a bit vulnerable from the past, are given the opportunity to go out and fix tours, which benefits both the local population and public health. These are many people who might have been outside the rest of their lives, but who now get self-confidence and practical work experience that they can point to when they come in the 20s and will apply for jobs further. Good municipal policy is, in each of us, part of the great work of including more young people and ensuring safe work for everyone. In the same way, the Labour Party works in the capital of Oslo and the districts here. And that's how, as the Council of State so correctly specified, all municipalities get better out with the Workers' Party-Center Party government. It is because we have always had the attitude that we should make sure that we have a policy that goes hand in hand with the city and the country. I've seen that, for example. Alstadheim in the Evening Post has tried to make it that ensuring that there is easier access to maintaining local schools and good services near people should not be positive for Oslo. The fact is that Oslo gets another quarter of a billion more after we had replaced the old right-wing government and now has the Labour Party and the Center Party at the rudder. If Alstadheim himself lives in Oslo, he will now be able to benefit from it. When we now adopt a budget for ordinary people across the country, it is therefore help nurses, kindergarten staff, teachers, nurses, janitors and those who work on road maintenance in the municipality who want to know that we see them, because it is these everyday heroes – who build stronger communities – that we are concerned about. For us, therefore, the local economy is a tool to ensure that these good workers can do the job they are so good at and have security for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1556	When I heard my colleague Sandtrøen tell me about it, and about rusting something so strong that it gets stronger, I knew a little bit about inspiration, because that's exactly what this is about. If we're going to get a municipality -- a care sector with added, a growing-up sector with kindergartens and schools -- where there's excess, it's not the answer to plan things down to the bone for those who work there. No, we have to put in enough resources so that everyone who works around gets the opportunity to do their job in a proper way. My good colleague Alfred Bjørlo from the Left and also from Sogn and Fjordane asked a little about the conversion possibilities. I think it's worth answering, for what's happened to equip Kommune-Noreg for welfare technology in the last eight years? What opportunities have a local government policy had to do when the only focus was on local government policy? Those developments haven't been all over the world. In fact, she has our horrors. I hope it's a parliamentary ok expression. We're going to have a big shift – technological and other – but to meet her in the best possible way, we have to add enough to do the job they're trained to do. Other representatives have highlighted how very little we are busy with inclusion and integration, but tell me: How good is the inclusion and integration if the SFO is too expensive for one to be with, or if there are more temptations to be home than having children in kindergarten? It's this thing that has something to say, that's the consequence. When one has 4,500 million. kr more in the local economy, it is clear that there are a lot of people from the civil parties who can think of what size it is. But for all who have been in a municipality and have seen how painful it is to cut crews, it means something. We have received a government that takes municipal policy and the local economy seriously. In practice, it also means that we've got a government that's finally in place with those added and with all the people who need them. This is about our community. It's about care for the elderly. It's about babysitting, and it's about the SFOs. It's about family. This is where we deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1573	The President may be able to give a good advice that if a question arises as to whether something is a good parliamentary expression, it is a good idea to choose another expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1578	We have now been told how the new government sees the development of district policy in the coming year. After an election campaign in which the government party went high on the path to strengthen the districts, we were of course unlikely to be excited about what this would mean. Now we've got the answer. We have to spend time on reversals, both by counties and municipalities, we have to spend time looking back instead of looking forward, and we're going to build smaller roads. In some verbal proposals, it is just enough put up for things that may have effects on the districts, for example: distributions, but currently these are only birds on the roof. Is this the answer to speeding up districts? In our opinion, no. The economy in the districts is going well. There's a big mess in a pandemic. What businesses in the districts now need are wise heads and competent hands that can produce goods and services to be exported and sold to the country of origin. This was well-informed by the Solberg government, with flexible and decentralised training, with tax deductions for young people, with the strengthening of differentiated employer fees, with good tax arrangements for entrepreneurs and with the strengthening of catapults and cluster programmes as important inputs for the green shift. There is still a high rate of industrial change towards green jobs. It is now important that we do not ask questions about large-scale transport projects that will bind cities and countries. It's essential to use the whole country. Fortunately, there is no reversing of broadband expansion and 5G networks, which we have started up, and there are promises that the EEA Agreement is firm. Fortunately, there is also a continuation of green shipping, offshore wind power, aquaculture, hydrogen and battery plants, which are now under seal. But a little anxiety is enough when it comes to stating about the regulation of hydrogen wagering and more state control of energy production. We also know a growing concern about how the paint industry is now going to survive up and down, which is normal cycles, when the manning industry is seen below the heel. And we're very concerned about increasing taxes on corporations, by increasing the value of working capital, because that means less to new additions and the development of the workforce. We are totally dependent on young people finding the districts attractive. It comes with good jobs, flexible education systems and freedom of choice in everyday life. Unfortunately, we do not see this in the budget presented by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1593	It is quite predictable, the debate we have had on the issue of the municipality. Especially from the People of the Center Party it's been looking back. I can't see that there's as much room for opportunity as it points out. It's good, of course, that the intention to give the municipalities better conditions is there. I myself have been in municipal government since 1995. There are considerable differences between the different batches, and all, with the exception of Red, have now been in the government apparatus. I can't see that this is kind of the big thing, but it's good. However, I do not hear one of the representatives of the government parties addressing some of the major challenges of demography, especially the crooked demography that we have in the country, and especially in the districts, because that is part of the big challenge picture. Professor Victor Norman also strongly warns in his investigation, which several have been involved in this debate, without having used that picture, that part of the districts are becoming an old-fashioned home. I can't see in that reverser how to get the youth to move back and see the opportunity room. There's a lot of things here, and if the Center Party hasn't got it, it'll take about. 70 pst. of young people now undergoing higher education. Then some new jobs have to be created. The green shift makes it necessary to create some locomotives around. To be honest with you, do you think that the smallest ones – regardless of whether you add back any of these RUP funds, which it was more of to the county councils – will be able to put in more industrial land without those municipalities looking for an opportunity to go together? Take my own municipality, my old municipality of Verran, before we were joined together with Steinkjer: We would not have had the opportunity if we had not got the conversion money with a municipal merger, to develop our new industrial area, which I also think the new Steinkjer is very pleased with – and that is a concern for me. I saw that in the last period we got job-independent jobs, which today's government doesn't have such a great sense for. We also got to move out state jobs – that is, to give the districts a new higher level of competence. I can't see that on the Hurdal platform. It is mentioned that one should set up new and allow state bureaucrats to run up instead of redeploying existing state jobs. I think that is a paradox in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1606	I would like to comment on some of the posts of some of the representatives of the Left. The representative of Skkelstad said that it was predictable what the representatives of the Central Party had said in the pulpit. I'm glad to hear that. It would be a bad strategy if it was completely unpredictable what the representatives of the Central Party were talking about. Both the representative Bjørlo and the representative Skjelstad mentioned demography. Then it's interesting to see what actually happens in some of the municipalities that have been merged. I would like to encourage representatives to go into the SSB and investigate it, for many of the municipalities that have been merged, have now had a negative population development after 1 January 2020, and the areas that are hardest hit are usually the smallest municipalities that were merged. The borders of the merged municipalities lose people, but not just that: the municipalities as a whole also lose people. So the representative Bjørlo said the centre party was so busy with borders from another time. Yes, we are dedicated to taking care of what works well, and the municipal boundaries have been abolizing against centralisation. Take my own home country, Hedmark, now called the Inland, but we'll see what happens after the people of Hedmark and Oppland have said their opinion: Hedmark was created in 1781, and since then it's done a lot. We've got Skibladner, Rørosbanen is built, there's been several roads, better roads, broadband, mobile, big societal changes. But the county limits have stood. There's no sign of weakness. It's a strong sign. It's a sign that something has worked, and I think some of the reason it's just that it's acted like a bulwark against centralization. All the experience we have, the fact that you centralize power, you also centralize people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1615	It's interesting that the right-wing representatives from the Central Party, Heidi Greni and Per Martin Sandtrøen, talk about municipal reform, because both of them actually see how completely different perspectives we have. Heidi Greni uses an anecdotal example from his own municipality of crisis management in a corona epidemic, which has been handled impressively in both large and small municipalities, in both merged and non-collected municipalities throughout the country. Using an anecdotic statement about it as proof that it's best that everything is like before, becomes reasonable to me. The corresponding debt when the representative Per Martin Sandtrøen uses as proof that there is a problem with municipal reform, that there has not been an explosive or sudden change in population development in one year. Then I think we have a completely different perspective on what this is all about, because working with reform and change is about thinking in the long term. It's about how developments are going to be in 10 years, in 20 years' time, and about laying the groundwork for it. It's the long-termity of a lot of municipal politicians around Norway have and see. It's the one you can read about in the report from the demography selection. It's the one you can read about in the report from the district industry selection. It's all about the long lines. In fact, I expect that we, as representatives of the national parliament, will also be able to have. I didn't say that municipal reform is the answer to everything, but is there one such thing to meet each one a discussion about what is 10-20 years into the future? I record that the representative Per Martin Sandtrøen thinks that things are going perfectly well in the smallest municipalities in the country, that everything is absolutely amazing, and that this is going well. I don't read it when I read statistics and talk to those who have looked at the Inland. I read it in a completely different way, but I just have to register that the Sandtröen means what is happening in the small municipalities of the Inland region, is quite specific. But these debates we must dare to take. I said earlier today that I feel that the municipal minister, although we disagree on some political issues, at least sees and is busy with the long-term challenges. We also have to be and not just talk in anecdotes about what we heard at the last municipal government meeting in Holtålen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1626	The representative, Lene Vågslid, has had the word twice in the past and is given the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1631	I believe the representatives from the Right and the Left are right, just what they want to do to the right. One can easily go back to the minutes and read all the articles that the Labour Party has held in this debate today. Then one will see that we both talk about and deal with demographic challenges, and that we – as my colleague from the Center Party said – are persuasive, because we now get a lot of what we promise people that we should do. Now we're adjusting to a budget presented by the Right-Registration – an additional number where we're obviously proud of what we're getting at. That by 2022 we can provide such a budget for Norwegian municipalities will mean a lot for people across the country and for their services. I'm proud of that. I understand that one might get a little bit slightly irritated in the opposition when it's such a clear speech from a clearly proud government party, but I'm very happy. We're on our way, and we're on our way. We hope that it will be even better in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1637	The representative Mudasar Kapur has also had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1642	This was a fairly predictable round of government parties. I understand that they may not have had so many answers at first, as we had the accession declaration debate, etc., but now, when we are getting closer to New Year's, I had hoped they would have a little more meat on their legs. But what I hear is that they still do not respond to the challenges that Norway is facing. Development shall be replaced by liquidation, reforms shall be replaced by reversal. We have major challenges such as migration, integration, demography, business development, infrastructure – we hear little about that. It might say a little bit about a government battle that's on its busiest and has the highest pulse and leans most over the pulp when they talk about what they're against, what they're going to wind up, and what they're going to reverse.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1647	Several have not asked for the floor in part 1 of the debate on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1652	Here we get to move on to the part of the debate that Mudassar Kapur seems to have enjoyed for several hours. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Government are concerned that Norwegian migration policy should be far-reaching and responsible. At the same time, Norway must show solidarity and take responsibility for human beings on the run. The right to seek asylum and protection against persecution is a fundamental human right. As we note both in the Hurdal platform and in the budget agreement for 2022, we believe that the United Nations' quota system is the safest and most equitable system to receive people who will have permanent protection. Today, there are about 82 million people on the run in the world. Of these, 73 occur. in the neighbouring country of the country from which they have fled. It is therefore quite clear that we need to strengthen international efforts to help the most possible of those in these regions. Therefore, it is very positive that the government of the Hurdal platform is clear that we are building a solidarity pot on the development budget of 5 billion. kr. We're already starting at 2 billion. In order to improve the situation of all refugees, and to allow poor countries who accept refugees to be better able to cope with them. It is a cross-political objective that we should deal quickly with asylum applications. Although the income of Norway is now low compared to some years ago, it is positive that a greater part of things are now being treated within 21 days. By 2020 was 27 p.m. in the case of asylum in 21 days, while in June 2021 it was up to 50 pst. It is positive to ensure rapid clarification of applications to the UDI. In integration policy, it is important both to set requirements and to set them. Integration policies must aim to increase the number of people at work, build strong communities, promote equality and fight against negative social control. Immigrants coming to Norway will meet with the same expectations and opportunities as the rest of the population. The major government has chosen to shift responsibility for integration policy from the Ministry of Knowledge to the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. The Labour Party believes, along with the Centre Party and the SV, that the key to integration and the way to work is through education and qualification. It is a great concern to us that many immigrants are out of work or fall out of work after a few years. The goal must be that the period outside of work is the shortest possible, and I am very happy that the government is strengthening today, among other things. The 10-million job. kr, which will help more women with a migrant background to get into work. The budget agreement also leads to cuts in the nursery price, which will stimulate work. The Government and the SV will therefore strengthen the competence line and thus the line of work in Norwegian integration policy. When it comes to the number of refugees, the municipalities, and the financial framework, I am pleased that the government and the Swedish government are helping to make it more conservative. The Norwegian model with scattered housing and the way in which we have organized ourselves in the Norwegian community, is among other things. The reason why we are more successful in integration than many other countries. Ensuring spread construction is therefore important for us to be happy with integration, and for those who stop in Norway to be integrated quickly into society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1673	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1678	I must first say that I agree very much with the representative who mentioned the matter in his post. Many of the challenges associated with integration often have a rather strong link to both education, skills and work. One of the main areas of integration is the introduction programme. It was the Solberg government that took a lot of grip on that field, and that renewed a lot of that work. At the same time, it is difficult to see in the budgetary agreement and also in the government's own supplementary proposal how to continue the important work under way, how to ensure that there is an even better connection between Nav, business, the introduction programme and the receptions, so that there is a much better transfer of competences. What does the Labour Party think about the coordination of that work in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1683	Thank you for a good question. It is very good – both the new law of integration and the new work that Kapur refers to. If we are to strengthen the integration work, it is also crucial that it be coordinated, as the representative says. We need strong municipalities, we need a stronger hub to solve the challenges and opportunities that lie in this. We also move integration from knowledge to work to connect it more closely to employment policy, which is important for the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV. Today, we are dealing with a supplementary number in a budget that has already been presented, but the Hurdal platform also has very clear objectives and ambitions both in terms of labour policy, which benefits everyone, and in terms of integration policy. I'm also very happy that we're strengthening the back-up arrangements, in addition to what the Solberg government did for 2022, for example. national resource environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1688	One of the things that I think has worked well politically has been that the Right Party and the Labour Party, as most of the time, have agreed on the long lines of immigration and integration policy. I hope that in the new cooperation that is now going to be here in the Stortinget between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV on the other hand, we will still see a recognizable working party in that field. The representative Vågslid was so far within this with the need to have strong municipalities, the need to see things in context. One of the things the county authorities are responsible for in the future is, among other things: to look at the integration work in a wider context. Instead of looking at how they can further develop integration work, what does the representative Awake! think that more municipalities are now primarily going to spend time doing reversal work, which is absolutely vital for success?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1695	This is like today's big thing for the Right. Again, I have great confidence in local politicians in this country, whether they are state politicians or local politicians. The fact that a state can now seek to be dissolved from the forced right they imposed in the previous period would prevent us from doing a good job within the relevant sectors, for example. integration – it’s a concern I don’t have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1700	The advantage of a line exchange is that hopefully we can get an answer to any question we might have. Experience has shown that there has been a great deal of distance between life and learning with regard to the Labour Party's immigration and integration policies. In many cases it has been decided not to take part in the debate. We now see that we have a serious situation at the external border of Schengen and the EU, among others. as a result of the dramatic situation at the border between Belarus and Poland. The European Commission has called for temporary restrictions on the right of asylum of asylum seekers in Poland, Latvia and Lithuania. Norway also has external borders that have been under pressure in the past, and it needs to be prepared for this to happen again. Will the Workers' Party then support a restriction of the right to asylum in line with what the EU Commission is now proposing?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1707	First of all, I agree that the situation we are seeing in Belarus and on the external border of Schengen is alarming. I am pleased that the government says so clearly that using vulnerable people as a foreign policy press agent in this way is totally unacceptable. When it comes to the question from the Progress Party, I may not have understood it completely, but what we have said in particular. The Hurdal platform is that we want to look at the action space in today's legislation, for example. in order to be able to show asylum seekers to safe third countries if they have come through that country. We looked back at the situation around Storskog in 2015, which was not particularly impressively managed – if I may say so – that one was able to make changes to the legislation that could be used in a given crisis situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1715	This was not the answer to what I was actually asking for, but the representative is quite right that the Progress Party in its time was fortunately given new instructions that would allow you to deal with the serious situation at Storskog. I have also addressed the government through written questions as to whether the government is prepared to continue and use the same instructions if we were to come into a new situation at Storskog. What was my specific question, which I have to ask the committee chairman to answer, is that the European Commission has raised the issue of restricting the right of asylum for people seeking asylum in Poland, Latvia and Lithuania in view of the serious situation at the external borders. When Norway also has an external border, is it close to getting answers to point one: Does the Labour Party support the EU Commission and the restriction of the right of asylum for people seeking asylum in Poland, Latvia and Lithuania? And: Will the Labour Party support a similar restriction of the right of asylum in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1722	There are many and large debates in the EU at present, both around the topic of the representative and around a possible future migration agreement in the EU. As the representative well knows, it is quite far ahead in time. There is no doubt that we will achieve a more resilient regulation and asylum system in both Norway and Europe, we need to work together in Europe. But at least I think the most important thing is that we are acidifying to follow up on the debates in the EU. If there is an agreement that Norway is going to deal with, it will be important for the Labour Party to look at it, but, of course, retain full autonomy in migration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1727	I still don't get an answer to the question – I get an answer to something quite different than what I'm actually asking questions about. I think it's quite serious, because what we know is that clarity in immigration and integration policy is absolutely essential. We have seen the consequences before when the Workers' Party has waved. We all remember when Jonas Gahr Støre from the pulpit invited 10,000 new refugees to Norway, with the result that there were many who thought they were invited to Norway – they came to the border and said they were already invited by Gahr Støre. So it's important to be clear. I have to challenge again the Labour Party: does the Labour Party support the EU Commission in restricting the right of asylum for people seeking asylum in Poland, Latvia and Lithuania? And will they support the same proposal to restrict the right of asylum in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1734	Yes, I have tried to answer the representative several times. He would like to put it over and over again, but the matter is that for the Labour Party, it is important that an acidifier for a better and more resilient asylum system in both Norway and Europe. But at this point there is no problem on the table. The Labour Party believes, in contrast to the Progress Party, that we should have both stability and security in asylum policy. The history of the Progress Party on what the Workers' Party has meant before is rarely very defamatory.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1739	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1744	The number of people fleeing the world is increasing, and now there are over 80 million people. Most of them are on the run in their own country. There are people in desperate situations, and there are many who are persecuted because of who they are, what they believe in, or what they mean. Norway shall take and take a significant responsibility for helping people on the run. But the high number of refugees in the world shows us that we cannot solve the world's refugee problems first and foremost by accepting more refugees in Norway. We need to ensure that we have a policy that facilitates, as far as possible, the provision of assistance to the greatest possible extent. One of the most important things we can do is work internationally to tackle growing migration challenges. The right stands for a strict, predictable and sustainable immigration policy. We will primarily help people fleeing through financial support in the neighbourhoods, but we will also use the UN quota system to receive refugees in Norway. We have taken a great deal of responsibility over several years by accepting many quota refugees. In this way, we ensure that we accept people who have a clear need for protection, and at the same time we have the opportunity to accept whole families. This will also allow us to limit the need for family reunification. It has been a goal for the Solberg government to keep the number of asylum seekers down without any need for protection. There have also been a low number of arrivals, and there are fewer without protection compared to other countries. Those who do not require protection in Norway must be returned quickly. The number of asylum arrivals is low now, but we need to be prepared for it to increase rapidly. Norway must be prepared for a new migration crisis and the situation along Europe’s outer border is tense. The Solberg government took a number of measures to ensure that Norway is prepared for such a situation, which I record that the current government is largely continuing and joining. But this is a situation that has to be followed closely; you have to be ready to take action on short notice. Those who come to Norway and are entitled to protection will receive it. And when they do, they're to be integrated and well included in our society. The right is that the path from new arrivals in Norway to taxpayers and participating citizens should be as short as possible. It is also essential that we get more people involved in work or education faster so that fewer people live with long-term low incomes. The Solberg government carried out the second major integration reform in recent times. We have established a new law of integration, the main objective of which is a more targeted qualification: the introduction system is more differentiated, higher education is easier, and there is a requirement for a minimum level of Norwegian and social knowledge rather than a clean hour, to mention a few things. The proposal for the next year’s government budget facilitated the introduction of the new integration reform and continued work. I am pleased that many of the initiatives proposed by the Solberg Government in its proposal to improve integration next year are also being adopted today. There are still, even with a one-year reform, major challenges in the area of integration. Something I and the Right are particularly concerned about, is negative social control. There are particularly girls and women in some immigrant communities who are particularly vulnerable. It's totally unacceptable. Everyone shall be able to live a free life in Norway without coercion, violence or control. The action plan against negative social control, which came in June of this year — which is an update of a previous plan — needs to be followed up and it needs to be strengthened. We need more knowledge of health care, we need better coordinated services, we need health services that are well aware of the challenges that may arise, and we need not least a better treatment provision for those who have also been exposed to gender impairment. There is a great deal we can regulate in areas of negative social control, and we also need to consider that in detail and in detail. But I also want to encourage transparency and a lively debate around the whole issue of negative social control. Some things are about changing attitudes, and we have to say to all those who are subjected to negative social control, that they need to know that we are on their side, and that we are continuing to fight for them to live a free life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1767	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1772	Social control and honorary power is a subject for which I believe both share a great commitment. Unfortunately, not enough statistics on social control and honorary power leads, but the annual reporting by the IMDi minority advisors gives us some indication of the extent of youth. Between 2013 and 2017, a total of 1,026 items were reported helping young people who are exposed to this, and we know that the darkness valley is great. In addition, it has increased quite significantly in 2020, during the pandemic. My question is whether Right is satisfied with the efforts made by the Solberg government over the last eight years, seen in the light of these numbers and the gloomy statistics.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1777	I'm going to join in that it's a darkest statistic. Too many people are being subjected to negative social control, and that's something we're still going to fight. I believe that the Solberg government put in place a lot of important measures to overcome that problem. They came, among others. For example, in the United Kingdom, there are a number of action plans, providing more minority counsellors, providing better knowledge of health services in schools, and making more changes to ensure that, for example: would not be left abroad against their will. Having said that, I am absolutely not satisfied with the situation we have today, and there is still a need to make many important changes in the future. In June, there was a new action plan on negative social control, which updated much of the policy it had. One of the things I'm really looking forward to is the selection that's now going to look at regulation, whether there's a need for better regulation of the law of the field to ensure that you just get rid of the kind of negative social control that we don't want in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1784	This is a topic and challenges that we in the Labour Party have raised in this Chamber very often for the last eight years. Do I then understand the representative correctly that with the results that we can now see in the sadly negative statistics, there are some who say that the measures proposed by the representative cannot be satisfied?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1790	I believe that you can be satisfied that some measures have been taken, without being satisfied with the situation you are in. I think it is necessary that we, as elected representatives, always look for ways to improve our policies, so that everyone living in Norway is allowed to live a free life. That's why I fully agree that the statistics – which hopefully come from something more openness, which I hope we can contribute to more in the future – show that we have to do a lot more in the years to come. There shall be a constructive party to continue to address new measures to improve the situation of the many young girls living there, especially in immigrant environments. I think we have to be clear that this also occurs in some Norwegian religious minorities or in Norwegian religious environments. There's an important problem to deal with in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1795	One of the most important things we do to succeed in integration is to get more people working. The new government sends a clear signal that we have now received a Minister of Labour and Inclusion. As the centre party was last in government with the Labour Party, employment among immigrants increased significantly. The employment rate increased by 5.7 pst., and this meant that almost 200,000 more immigrants came to work. This turned around in the eight years that followed, and with the Right and the Advance Party by the rudder, the employment share fell by 1.4 pst. The right has a long tradition of being concerned with target management, so based on these figures: how will the representative assess that the outgoing government has succeeded in the integration work?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1802	I think there are many indicators that show that integration policies have been improved in recent years, for example. There are several people who pass their Norwegian test. This makes you learn Norwegian in a better way, which I think is incredibly important in order to get to work as well. I think it was interesting that the Statistical Central Bureau not long ago published a report that took care of adult immigrants living in sustainable low incomes. What it shows is that there are a lot of people out of work who live in long-term low incomes. The biggest challenge for them to get into work is that they do not have the skills that the labour market demands. Therefore, I believe that the most important measure we can continue to give is that these people are given the opportunity to receive the education that the working life demands, so that they can get into work. We also know that there are an incredible number of employers who are really just scratching the door after getting more skilled workers, and I believe that it is education that will be the most important step forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1809	I'm going to do something you don't do too often in these reply exchanges, namely to say that it was a good post the representative held. I particularly appreciate that it focuses on the fight against negative social control, because it is one of the most important areas, which the Progress Party is constantly lifting up – that we have especially girls growing up in Norway, who do not experience the freedom that everyone else has in Norway. Then it's also that fine words help fine little; it's concrete action that counts. One of the most visible and glaring examples of negative social control is the use of cans, nicabs and thick garments. The Progress Party recently took this up in an interpellation debate here in Stortinget. Sorry. The right hand side is not participating. I would therefore urge the representative now to clarify the Right View: Does the Right Advance Party support the prohibition of burka, nikab and lucky garments in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1816	I would first like to say that I have not particularly accepted for burka or other face-covering garments, and I am pleased that the Right Party and the Advance Party together in the government made sure that it was banned in e.g.. educational situations. Even if you're not for people to use burka and nikab, I think you can ask yourself the question of ban is the most effective way to deal with that problem. There I believe that we need to engage in close dialogue with the environments involved, and also with others. I also believe that it is natural for us to wait for the sample to look at just the legal regulation of negative social control, as to whether this is something that is relevant to do. We have not concluded on that question, but I am very open to discuss it further with the representative of Wiborg and the Progress Party in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1825	The right is also concerned with good integration, and then we are dependent on close cooperation and efforts by organisations and voluntary organisations. Voluntary organisations in the field of integration are doing incredibly important work in relation to the environment, individuals and the wider community. In Norway, we have many good and strong organisations in the field, many driven by people who themselves have a multicultural background. We all heard during the consultation a strong desire and need for predictability in the work they are doing, and therefore also the need for stability in the support they receive. In the agreement we got an increased searchable pot, and we also ensured the predictability that the organisations wanted. Would the representative say that it has become a good solution and that it meets the needs notified to us by the organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1832	I am basically in favour of the Solberg government, and it is that one should provide a searchable pot, where one should also meet certain criteria to get support – not that it is the politicians who need to sit and pick from one year to another who gets support and not. It is actually the result when organisations are listed on the State budget, that organisations are at risk of losing support from one year to another. There is also a risk of a situation where organisations with a good political network are the main beneficiaries. I think basically that we should have made sure that they could search. I also record in the agreement that there are a number of organisations, great organisations, who are receiving support, which are also the same organisations that received support from the Solberg government's proposal, and which would also have had the opportunity to apply. But I think it is good that those organisations are still on and do a good and important job of getting better integration in Norway even in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1839	The Central Party is committed to pursuing a responsible and decent refugee policy based on our international obligations, humane traditions and national capacity. The Hurdal Platform notes that it is important that Norwegian migration policy is predictable and responsible, while Norway should show solidarity and take our share of responsibility for helping people flee. There are over 80 million people on the run, and 73 pst. of whom resided in a neighbouring country to the country from which they fled. It is necessary to strengthen international efforts to help as much as possible. That is why I am pleased that the government has set up a two-billion-billion-dollar solidarity pot. on the development budget to help improve the conditions for people in refugees and to improve the conditions for poor countries receiving many refugees. The government's immigration and integration policy is based on the broad agreement in the Stortinget from 2016. Wide settlements ensure predictability, and I am pleased that there is a broad consensus on the broad lines of policy that are now continuing. Integration policy must aim to maximise employment, promote equality and combat negative social control. We have to make demands on immigrants, and we have to make demands. Getting good integration is a shared responsibility. Those who come must want to be part of the Norwegian community, and we who live here must accept them. Municipalities must be able to provide a good framework for integration work. Norway has achieved better integration than many other countries. I think an important success factor is that we settle refugees all over the country. Norwegian municipalities are making a major contribution to integration, and many small municipalities are particularly good at integration. Therefore, we must continue to live in smaller municipalities as well. Voluntary organisations play a key role in integration. Volunteering creates the good meeting places where people can meet for joint activities across inequalities. The Workers' Party and the Centre Party are committed to ensuring good conditions for volunteering. In addition to strengthening a number of individual organisations, we are proposing to strengthen the VAT compensation scheme for non-governmental organisations. A better VAT compensation system is a long-term measure that will contribute to more activity and lower voluntary costs, which will benefit the breadth of teams and organisations. The Corona situation also affects the integration work. Reduced activity in many industries, leavencies and redundancies is expected to have a negative impact on the ability to enter the labour market, especially for people with low education. The way out of the corona pandemic has become longer than many of us could imagine, and some industries have it incredibly tough a day. It is therefore important that we closely monitor developments in the labour market, both in the short and long term. It is a major challenge that many people with a migrant background remain out of work and that the proportion has increased in the last eight years. There are also a lot of people who get out of work after a few years, and getting people to stay in the workplace is something that requires a lot of attention. It is therefore absolutely necessary that a strong effort be made to get the most out of work. It's good that the Job Dance is strengthened by 10 million. kr extra by the new government. Job is priority number one; therefore, it is natural that the Minister of Labour is also responsible for integration, of course in close cooperation with education. In reducing the differences between people, spatial planning is an important tool. In 2006 the red-green government, by the municipal minister Åslaug Haga, launched the first area operation in the Groruddalen in Oslo. Later, Bergen, Trondheim, Drammen and Stavanger entered into the arrangement. Area action is about deploying additional resources and efforts in places where there is a high risk that many may be left out. The bet has been gradually weakened since 2013. Fortunately, now the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV propose a strengthening. This results, among other things, in: Five million. kr extra to Trondheim, which can deploy measures in two new areas with many low income families and major challenges. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV also propose an allocation of 1.2 million. kr to a supervisory system for unaccompanied minors. This is a vulnerable group, and that's why I'm glad it's coming in and ensuring legal certainty for this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1862	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1867	The representative, Mr Greni, pointed out in his statement that volunteering has an important role to play in the integration process. Of course, I fully agree with that. Therefore — but not only for this reason — the Solberg government introduced an activity card to enable children and young people in low-income families to participate in activities that they would otherwise not have had the opportunity to afford. So I want to ask the representative, Mr. Greni, what effect does it have on the integration work of removing the system of activity cards for children and young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1872	I think it is important that we see the whole of the integration work and that we see this together. I think area action – and perhaps a change in area action, but at least a strengthening of it – is the solution to addressing these challenges. As it has been now, there are few areas that have participated in it. I know Trondheim best, so I take it as an example. There has now been one town in Trondheim that has had the opportunity to participate in this, and what has happened in Saupstad has been very successful. Now there are two new urban areas that are given the opportunity to participate in that venture, and it is very well received by the politicians in Trondheim. I think that's the solution to these challenges in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1878	This is true in just a few selected areas, but the weaker families live all over the country. The system of business cards, which has been removed by the government, should benefit all disadvantaged people throughout the country, but I hear that the representative, Mr. Greni, responds to the fact that the area bet can be used in individual urban areas. So I repeat my question: what effect does the representative Greni think that removing the activity card scheme for children will have on the integration work?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1883	As I mentioned in my article, we have among other things. enhanced the compensation scheme for non-governmental organisations. That means it'll be a lot cheaper and easier to participate in those activities. That means that everyone has a much bigger opportunity to participate, but it's not going to be as expensive for those families. We also strengthen the income of low income families through the tax system. There's less tax for those who earn little, and then there's more tax for us who earn a lot. It is a distribution that benefits all young people living in poor families. For example, we mourn. that there is no deduction of child-restraint, etc. when you receive social assistance. That'll benefit those kids. Overall, equalisation and minor differences will benefit all the poor children’s families.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1888	It's the beginning of a new parliamentary term, and the Central Party is now in government. Then it's interesting to know which of the Central Party's previous promises they've been planning to follow up, including in terms of immigration and integration. The representative of the Centerpartie Per Olaf Lundteg stated a few years ago: ‘We can accept the refugees who are coming, and rather drop the wage increase...’ Or another quote: «It is not certain that it is unrealistic that 100,000 refugees come to Norway. And then we have no choice; we must receive those who come...» Is it still the central party's policy that Norway should dramatically increase the reception of refugees and that it should be financed by reducing the salaries of teachers, nurses and other municipal and public employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1903	It's never been the Central Party's policy that we should accept everyone who comes. It's never been the Central Party's policy that we're going to fund it with a drop in wages for some groups in society. On the contrary, the Central Party has always had a restrictive policy of accepting more than what we can integrate. I must remind the representative that the Central Party has for many years invested fewer quota refugees in its alternative budget than the Progress Party has done. I don't know if there's anything the Progress Party has been thinking about going on, that they're going to be higher than us. On the other hand, we now receive very few asylum seekers. We have to do our share of the humanitarian contribution and help relieve those countries, so I think what we have spent on our budget now, with 3,000 quota refugees next year, makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1910	I must say this was a very strange answer. We are now discussing a specific budget where the Centre Party and the Workers' Party will add up to a total of 3,000 quota refugees next year, and the Progress Party will add up to 200. We therefore want to significantly limit immigration to Norway, both in terms of quota refugees and not least in terms of tightening up asylum immigration to Norway. Luckily, I also register that the representative is now aware that the representative of the Central Party Per Olaf Lundtigen has said – on behalf of the Center Party, I will assume, when a representative of the Depositary is speaking – that there is no current policy, even though the representative Lundtigen, as I said, wanted to drop the wage increase and accept all those who are coming. There was something he himself said, and I made verbatim quotes. Are there other areas of what Per Olaf Lundtigen says, which is not the central party's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1919	I have to admit that I don't have a complete overview of all Lundtigen's media quotes in the last 30 years, so I don't think I'm going to comment. I am very clear that in the last eleven years, I have been responsible and the spokesperson of the Central Party for asylum and immigration policy, and that kind of solution has never been discussed in the eleven years I have been on the Stortinget. What has happened before that, I cannot comment on. The immigration policy of the Centre Party is firm. I think the level we're putting ourselves on right now is very reasonable. As I said, we have to contribute our share of responsibility when there is a huge humanitarian disaster out there. At the same time, we have to make sure that we can achieve a good integration of those we accept, because the whole success factor is getting those who come here into education and work. I am very disappointed that the Progress Party in its alternative budget is cutting all the funds for most of what is going on integration, because it will mean that there is less chance of success in integration and getting people out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1926	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1931	As I mentioned earlier, immigration must be the only policy area where the weakest receive least systematic help. It has also shown the exchange of lines today. It's the only area where those who fight to maintain a system where the weakest are at the bottom of the table are presented as the good and the rusty. There are now more than 82 million people on the run. While we in Norway have been discussing whether to pick up 50 or 100 people from Moria, the United Nations budget for refugee camps has been a balancing item for years. The Progress Party is proposing today to strengthen assistance and support in the neighbourhoods, but unfortunately the majority of the population, with the Workers' Party and the Central Party at the head, will vote down. So we are voting down the proposals of the Progress Party to strengthen assistance in the neighbourhoods, even though we know that this is the most effective approach to helping as many people as possible. You pick the other way. For the money it costs to pick up 50 asylum seekers to the high-cost country of Norway, 8,300 people could be given a more valuable life in the crowded refugee camps in Jordan. But the children of Jordan hear neither the Workers' Party nor the Center's party. They have no cultural personalities or social summits fighting their struggles, and the media's interest in the fate of these children is often limited to some overviews of the News of the Day. Millions of faceless children do not have parents with money and resources to get to Europe. The fact that children are not on European soil does not make their lives less valuable. Asylum seekers who have the resources to pay human traffickers and get to Europe have already shown that they are resource-intensive, and there is a great excess of men at their best age. It is unfair to help the few instead of the many, it is immoral to help the strong in front of the weak, and it is irresponsible to pursue an immigration policy that imposes enormous expenditure on future generations in Norway. Today, in the budget we are dealing with, the other parties are competing to receive as many quota refugees as possible. The Workers' Party-Center Party government wanted 3,000, we saw that SV wanted 5,000, and then came Red and high and would take 5,000 plus 1,500 from Moria, if I don't remember wrong, i.e. 6,500. But then you have the Advance Party, which – with the background of what I started with – has shown that we can help more, including. by saying that we are reducing reception to Norway down to 200, but then we are strengthening assistance and assistance in the neighbourhoods, so that we can help much more people. It must then be the aim, to help as much as possible, while at the same time ensuring that integration in Norway does not go backwards and does not work. Because, as has also been shown in previous line-changes in today's debate, it is obvious that integration in Norway is not working well enough. There's a relationship between how many we go to Norway and how many we can get integrated. In addition, it's the human destiny. According to the UN, at least 1,146 migrants have drowned in the Mediterranean only for the first six months. It's a double from last year. At least 200 children have drowned on their way to Europe only between 2014 and 2018. Today's asylum system and immigration bring terrible incentives that result in drowning deaths and fill the wallets to unscrupulous traffickers. For more of the parties in this hall, it is often more important to be able to appear as good and kind than actually to take the grips that actually work. I am pleased that the Progress Party here is clear that we want to help more people in the neighbourhoods, and that we want to limit immigration to Norway and rather make sure to integrate those who are already here, so that they can get out of society and become good taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1952	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1957	Norway has the prerequisites for better integration than many countries with which it is natural for us to compare. Nevertheless, we have challenges that politicians have to contribute to solving. Many of those who come here stay out of work. Differences in Norwegian society are increasing, and many children of immigrants are growing up in low-income families. For this reason, the most important objective of integration must be to increase the number of people employed so that they can support themselves and their families. So society must both make demands and make demands. The Party of Progress shall state their commitment to integration. Nevertheless, the party proposes to cut over 1.3 billion. to various integration measures. How does the Progress Party feel that we should succeed in integrating if the big community fails to produce good tools and programs?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1964	The first part of the line seems to me to be very good, because I fully agree that Norway should have good conditions for good integration. But it also requires that we actually make demands, and that we are clear in our expectations of those who are coming. With the policies of the Progress Party, there will be far fewer quota refugees to Norway. There will be far fewer asylum seekers in Norway. There will be much less family reunification in Norway. Then you can spend a little less money per person because there is less to distribute the money. It's elementary mathematics. But what the Workers' Party forgets is actually to make demands. The working party is too often concerned about sewing cushions under the arms of those who are coming, instead of daring to demand that Norwegian laws and regulations apply if you live in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1974	To refer to the representative Wiborg a little earlier in the line change: he was not satisfied with the answer he received. I do not think I received an answer either. My question was just what the Progress Party is thinking of deploying resources and tools so that those who are already here actually get an opportunity to qualify for a working life that needs labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1979	I may have been unclear, but I would assume that the representative understands that when you reduce the number that comes, you also reduce the costs that it brings. There will be fewer people going to Norwegian training etc. It's relatively elementary. What I hope the representative can be a little clear about is which concrete grip the Workers' Party actually wants to take. Until now, we have seen that the Workers' Party is in many cases a bit like a walking seminar when we talk about immigration and integration policy; it depends very much on which representative is making a statement. In one case, they're clear that you have to make demands and be tough. In the next moment, it's about to soften up. We saw it in this room a few weeks ago when we discussed the interpellation of the Progress Party to ban the use of Nicab, Burka and other lucky garments. The working party chose to go against it, simply because they did not want to offend anyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1988	The representative of Wiborg has expressed in several contexts that the Progress Party is concerned with good integration. I don't understand how this is related to the fact that the Progress Party in the same turn cutters in both grants and social benefits in the area to such a large extent. How does the representative explain the many different cuts in measures for integration in the draft budget of the Progress Party, including: a cut of 873 million. D in the integration grant?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e1993	I answered that in the previous line exchange. If it comes to Norway less, it has less expenditure. If fewer asylum seekers arrive, fewer places are needed in the reception of asylum. If it comes less to Norway, there is a need for fewer places for Norwegian training. It's not more complicated than that. We in the Progress Party are clear that we want to limit immigration to Norway. We want to do it in a controlled way. Then we have the opportunity to reduce costs, so that we can spend money in other areas we want to spend money on – as opposed to the policy of the Centre Party, where we want to have the EU run Norwegian immigration and integration policies. One would lose the right to self-determination in terms of the number to be accepted, etc., when one wants the EU – instead of this room – to run a lot of immigration and integration policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2000	I should also like to ask the representative questions about it with cutbacks in the integration work, because I know that the Progress Party is concerned about integration, but I do not expect to get any better answers than what has already been given. I would rather address the part of the representative's posts that was about justice and helping in the neighbourhoods. That seems to be the solution the Progress Party has largely on these issues. Then it's interesting to know how much the Progress Party intends to set aside to help out in the neighbourhoods. Does the Progress Party see that those who are now in these camps can be integrated into the countries in which they are now located? For example: who have worked in Afghanistan for women's rights and LHBT rights, does the representative consider that they are safe in neighbouring and also regime-driven countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2007	The last question is some reason why the Progress Party has said that we will receive 200 quota refugees next year. These include: because there may be personnel in e.g. Afghanistan, which has helped Norwegian forces and which we should take to Norway for purely safety reasons. We want to strengthen the help in the neighbourhoods. It chooses the Socialist Left Party to vote against today. So they are in favour of following the desire of the United Nations to strengthen aid in the neighbourhoods. And no, I don't see it as a goal in itself to integrate people into that country a refugee camp is in. I imagine people living there should be able to get good health care, they should be safe, the children should be able to play and get an education. So, when there's peace in their homeland, they're going to be able to go back to their homeland and be with and build up the country – just as the North did during World War II.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2016	I understand that the representative needs to put these arrangements a little bit against each other and in this way he chooses to highlight that the Socialist Left Party is voting against the UN recommendations or the pots that are thus on the table. Of course it's not about that. It's about what device and what arrangement you want to have on the table. Does the representative realize that these children are going to grow up, play and have it safe and sound in these camps, as the representative says, and will there be peace in a few months' time, so that they can go home? Reality doesn't look exactly like that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2023	It will vary from conflict to conflict. Some conflicts are long-term, and some conflicts are fortunately short-lived. Of course, we have to work to ensure that as many conflicts as possible are as short as possible. But once again, the most important thing when there is war and conflict is to make sure that children are as safe as possible. That must be the most important thing, not how many we can beat on our chests over getting to Norway. The total number is the most important, and for the Progress Party, what I started with instead is better and more important to help, for example. 8 300 people to be safe and receive education and health care than to bring 50 people to Norway. I think it's a shame that the Socialist Left Party chooses to prioritise 50 instead of helping 8,300 people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2028	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2033	The world isn't big. We tend to say that when we meet acquaintances in some unexpected places, and with our digital world it actually seems even less. We can keep in touch with people around the world on a little screen, and we can keep track of everything that's happening far, far away. It's actually not that exciting anymore. It's really the most arduous with so much information, with so many impressions all the time. The tempo is high, and it has become a good thing to be able to log off. But even if we choose to log out, we choose not to see and choose not to relate to what's far, far away, the images will not be gone, and the little world will not be gone either. We can't log out of reality, a reality that too many today are brutal. As many people have mentioned, the world has many people on the run. Over 80 million people are fleeing from war, destruction, persecution and poverty. We've seen the images. We have been affected by children drowning in the Mediterranean, cold tent families in crowded and dangerous refugee camps – by desperate people trying to get a future. But then it might be a little too much to relate to. We got what we called a refugee crisis in 2015. A lot of people got scared. At least we tightened up one more then somewhat more solidarity with refugee and asylum policies. We have a lot of money in our country, and we also pay ourselves out of a lot. In this policy too, we think that it will be better if they stay in the camps. We're putting up a rational that we can help more people where they are. We do not see all those who cannot get protection there, or the countries who are asking for relief. It's a pleasure that we're now getting a solidarity spot of up to 5 billion. kr in order to be able to repair something in the vicinity, which has the maximum load. No matter how many we should choose to help further, there will be a pressure on the neighbourhoods. But we can't just have that approach. It is therefore regrettable that we will not now deal with the number of quota refugees requested by the United Nations, nor will we accept more from Greece or Italy, or all the many who are not in the budget today. There are also good and positive items in this part of the budget. Vulnerable children shall be assisted with free legal assistance in expulsion proceedings. We are seeing more and more individual things that affect us, families that live in uncertainty, and children who need security and stability, so increasing focus and bet on this will make a difference. An increased framework for organisations such as NOAS and Jussbuss will provide more opportunities for guidance by qualified lawyers, perhaps also to have their case tried in a courtroom. We want to ensure that the best interests of the child are the fundamental consideration in the handling of asylum cases where they are affected. We will create predictability for organisations working with integration, qualification and community work, and in addition we will increase the pot for the searchable system. This has been very well received. There's an increase in job opportunities, which is one of several good actions with very good results. There is no doubt that language and association with the labour market are crucial for integration. We will also ensure that all children living in Norway have full access to the necessary health and care services — finally, it can become a reality. In addition, this part of the population will also take part in the improvements we make with free SFO, child welfare outside social assistance and increased efforts at work and activity. We're going to help the municipalities. It's important that everyone who comes here quickly connects to their community and thus also the opportunity to start a new life. Several smaller municipalities want to receive more refugees, and it is important that we facilitate it. Here, too, there is district policy. Better long-term financial support schemes for municipalities that settle people with special needs should also be in place. That's good, and it gives predictability and a easier way of integration. The area bet is also given a boost. It is long-term and a necessary response that stimulates a better policy in our cities as well. Overall, there are several good measures, many fine steps towards a better integration policy, where work may be the most important component. But there's a lot of mess in this field as well. We have more to do in refugee policy, so we have to work together to develop further.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2050	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2056	The SSB came, as I also mentioned, a few weeks ago with a report on low-income households in Norway. It showed that, among other things: migrants with a background to refugee or family reunification are over-represented among families with long-term low incomes. This is often because you are not at work or you have short-term low pay jobs. It is essential that we do not accept more to Norway than we can integrate, if we are to ensure that people get into work, learn Norwegian and thereby can support themselves. The SV's alternative budget provides almost a doubling of the number of quota refugees to be accepted in Norway, while at the same time wanting to implement changes in immigration policy, which would also make it easier to stay in Norway. Does the representative acknowledge that increased immigration can lead to more people living with long-term low incomes, and does she believe that this is a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2063	I am like the representative very much concerned with children growing up in low-income families, and SV has a lot of measures in that area just to prevent it from happening. Then it will be that, when you come to a new country, and before you have the opportunity to become a part of that society, you may have to stand in a situation where you have a low income over time, and work is, as it was said, important. The most important thing is maybe not to be suspended in getting the statistics down, but to create a better life for the growing up kids. In any case, I would say that growing up in a low-income family in a safe Norway is better than growing up in a crowded, wet tent in a refugee camp.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2068	I agree that we need a lot of measures to prevent people from living with long-term low incomes, and I am proud that the Right in Government has provided many important measures in this respect, among others. cheaper kindergarten and cheaper SFO. But I'm actually a little surprised at the conclusion of the answer to Wold. It seems as if you accept that it's okay that people live with lasting low income, because it's better for them than it would otherwise have been. I think some of the problem with families living with long-term low incomes in Norway is that the people who do it, often make things worse in school, for example, have poorer health and live a worse life. I believe that some of the things that are important to the welfare society we live in are that we have little differences. Is it really that way to understand that SV really acknowledges that their immigration policy will lead to more people living with sustainable low incomes, but that she thinks it's okay because it's better than the option for the individual?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2073	I think the representative has misunderstood me a little if that was what was the result of that answer. We do not accept in any way that people should live in low-income families, and therefore we also have a number of measures – many good measures – in this budget just to prevent it. Whether those living with low incomes have a multicultural background or a purely Norwegian background is quite uninteresting in this context. These are children who don't have it good, who don't get to share in society in the same way as others, and then we have to make sure they're safe when it comes to it. Then SV isn't busy decorating the statistics; we're busy helping the people that actually apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2078	I agree that the cultural background, whether you live with long-term low income or not, is irrelevant in itself. The background for me taking it up here is that we know that statistics show that of those who live with sustainable low incomes, immigrants are unfortunately overrepresented. It therefore shows that we need to make a specific effort there. I really feel that the representative acknowledges that the immigration policy that is being pursued will lead to more people living with low incomes over time. Will SV take on board its impact and consider changing its immigration policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2083	I can cancel that right away. SV will not change its immigration policy, nor will it reduce the number we want to be able to provide protection in this country. We believe that we have international obligations, we believe that we should follow the UN recommendations and accept the number of quota refugees requested by the United Nations. It's about taking ethical and international responsibility. There is no recognition of living in low-income families. Putting the two relationships close together and explaining directly why some live in low-income families is a bit of a wrong premise for the discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2090	It is no secret that, in both immigration and integration policies, there is a very big difference between the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party, and so the Progress Party is happy every time we see that the Socialist Left Party does not have an impact on its policies, both in this area and in other areas, and I would assume that it is relatively mutual. Now the Socialist Left Party has negotiated with the government a budget, and to my great delight, the Socialist Left Party has not had any significant breakthrough in this round. I am pleased with that, and I record that SV has used its negotiating power in other areas. Can we now expect that, in the future, SV will require greater implementation of immigration and integration policies, and what will the government, if any, require?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2097	It's quite right, as Wiborg points out: we have a completely different approach to this problem and are certainly mutually happy that the other person doesn't necessarily get so much insight into his policy in this area. Now we have concluded the negotiations on this budget, and it is absolutely right that this is one of the areas where SV has not been sufficiently implemented for what we wanted in our policy. It is in the course of negotiations that we should go into areas and give priority to them. We may need to give priority to the areas in which we can work together and get a good policy. There are also a lot of areas in this field, where we've got a pass, and where we've got a very good deal of action, as I also mentioned in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2104	I would like to thank the representative for the answer, but I would ask the representative to be a little clearer. Now, the Socialist Left Party is in the situation that you can actually make demands on the government. We cannot implement everything, but will there be a demand from the Socialist Left to increase the share of quota refugees and liberalise and soften asylum policy to Norway in future negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2109	We will always work to follow the UN's recommendations in the field of refugee and asylum policy. We're also going to bring that to the table on later occasions. We can't take fights in all the discussions all the time, but this is something we're going to work for both in the hall and in other work. It may well be so important the work we are going to do in conjunction with a better integration policy, where we are going to facilitate everyone's ability to get good language training and get into work, and thus continue to contribute to reducing inequalities in Norway. It's the most important thing. In addition, we need to work to get good organisations and a good policy also for those who have come to our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2114	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2120	Today is 1 pst. of the world's population in flight. It means over 82 million people, estimates the UN. Not since World War II has there been more people on the run in the world, and it is serious. Often we hear talk about the refugee crisis that hit us in 2014 and 2015. The truth is that that crisis is not over. It is not against all those people who are currently on the border between Poland and Belarus, it is not against those who are at risk of dying on the way across the Mediterranean, nor for all those who are in the refugee camps in the neighbourhoods. For these people, there is still a crisis. Norway cannot do everything for everyone, but we can do something. Then it disappoints me and Red that neither in this budgetary agreement between the government and the Swedish Government can we accept 5,000 quota refugees, which is what the UN High Commissioner for Refugees is asking us to do. It is believed that Norway has both the space and the opportunity to receive 5,000 refugees. In addition, we want to look at the possibility of receiving a further 1,500 from the crowded camps in Greece and Italy. That's why we're also spending money on it in our alternative state budget. We need to ensure good integration and inclusion of people who are already here. This work is incredibly important, and a great job is done here by both voluntary and professional actors. People coming to Norway for various reasons will meet an inclusive housing, employment, school and education policy that ensures that there is room for everyone and that prevents segregation. It is striking that it is much easier to get a job when you are called Alexander than when you are called Ali, and that should not be the case in Norway. Red proposes in our alternative budget to increase the funding for the MiRA Centre by 6.6 million. kr and to the Foundation Coloring Game with 1 million kr And we're also adding $0.5 million. kr to save the important offer that is Red Cross's actions Stella and Castor Competence Centre in Tønsberg. Red also added 15 million. kr for area bet in Groruddalen and Oslo south. In addition, I would like to highlight what has been mentioned earlier in this debate, on the importance of, among other things, Job skills, which is a good measure. We should also allow those who have come to Norway, who have lived here for a long time, to settle and live here, to have the opportunity to stay if they have not done anything wrong. There are many examples, but let me mention some. I've read about some children in Tønsberg, and it makes me deeply upset, namely Delnaz, Khairi and Della. They are all born in Norway and live in Tønsberg with their parents, Amat and Dakhwaz. Delnaz and Khairi go to school, and Della goes to kindergarten. The children had a temporary residence permit in Norway, but the Norwegian State has withdrawn it. The family did not win with their complaint to UNE. These children are ours, and they should still be allowed to live in Norway and have a safe upbringing. The family has nothing to go back to in Iraq. They're Jesuits, a persecuted religious minority group, and then it's inhuman, I think, to send this family back to a life in refugee camps in Northern Iraq. At the same time, we have the Mahad case, which is about Mahad Mahamud, which maybe someone knows about. Mahad came to Norway from Somalia at the age of 14. He graduated from higher education and became a bio engineer at Ullevål Hospital in Oslo. Mahad is skilled, he paid taxes and had a socially critical job. Then he lost his Norwegian citizenship because UDI and UNE thought he was actually another, specific man from Djibouti – while Mahad's lawyer this year found proof that this man, who was allegedly a foreigner, died in 2016. Where am I going with this? There's a lot of talk about systems and the big things, but this is about people, and it's about seeing the people who are going – what to say – outrun by the system. Norway can do better than this, and Red believes that we need a new, solidarity and human asylum and immigration policy where we integrate more, where we provide more opportunities, and where we ensure solidarity in focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2139	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2144	There were well-known tones from Red in immigration and integration policy. It is quite legitimate that there are different opinions in this Chamber on, for example, the issue of the use of the use of drugs. the strictness of immigration policies and their boundaries. But I thought that at least one thing was agreed on, and that is that those who are denied the application must actually leave Norway – regardless of whether or not you want a strict policy. I note that in the budget, Red uses very strong words, such as that it is contrary to the humane and fair treatment of asylum-seekers, among other things. those who are refused their application must leave the country. Is it the case that Red believes it should be up to the individual if you are allowed to stay, or should it be society that sets requirements and criteria for who is allowed to stay in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2149	I thank you for the question. Red believes that there should have been a limitation period for the withdrawal of citizenship. That, for example: those children who have had temporary stays, who have grown up in Norway, who go to kindergarten, who go to school, are to be punished for what someone else before they have done, which is beyond their control, I think is strictly unfair. I have taken the case with Mahad as an example. That he, who has got a job, who has contributed and paid taxes to Norway, who is part of Norwegian society and has a socially critical job, should be denied citizenship because the foreign agencies suddenly think he is another man, who is dead, I think is completely unprofessional. I think we should have a practice where we actually rely more on the people who are facing the system, and where we don't withdraw citizenship as many years later, as in this case, where it's 18 years old.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2154	We need to have some confidence in Norwegian foreign administration, Norwegian courts, etc., which have in fact dealt with several of these matters thoroughly. But that wasn't my question. It was in the case of red cutters in the budget and a strong attack on a return policy that says that if you get a rejection of your application, you have to leave the country and that if you don't do it on a voluntary basis, you have to be transported out. You initially privatise the entire asylum system if it is up to the individual to choose whether to leave the country or not if you are denied your application. I have to say that it would be a very strange practice, and then it's okay to get an answer from Red. I'm not talking about old stuff. I am talking about fresh things – people who have recently come to Norway but who are refused because they do not need protection. Does Red think they should be able to stay in Norway anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2159	We believe that the police and foreign agencies really have better things to spend time on. You can see the crime scene, what other challenges we have in the police districts, that people have experienced that there is less visible police in the community. Red and I believe that using a lot of time to track down someone who might not have been here in the first place, but who has had a life in Norway after very many years is a wrong priority, and we think we should have had a deadline for the withdrawal of citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2164	The representative was into the integration of his post and mentioned many good points and points that I think more in the hall can join. From an integration point of view, regional initiatives in the major cities of ours are an important area. Red is not necessarily in charge of Oslo, but is an important budgetary partner in this city. We know that some unused funds are available at the Oslo South site, and in particular from an integration point of view, it is worrying. There is a response from the representative to his colleagues in Oslo. My question is about how the representative believes that we should in the future use private business – which Red is usually opposed, but nevertheless – in integrating and getting people into the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2171	I thank you for the question. As I mentioned in my presentation, we are strengthening the area efforts to both Grorud and Oslo south, and I think that is important. Area bets are important. When it comes to using the private business, I think it's very important to make sure you get people to work, even in the private business. Then it's important, as I said in my presentation, that we work for less discrimination, that we make sure that there is a easier way in, whether we call Ali or Alexander, and that we work against the integration measures that are in the municipalities, around the country. Many of these are measures that I think both Red and Right agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2176	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2181	The big challenge is to include immigrants in the large community from the start. It is clear whether we ensure participation in employment through an individualised introduction programme and provide the opportunity to use the knowledge and education that a person has with him from his home country. Because we know that focusing on quality and flexibility in the introduction programs pays off. Formal competence is increasingly a prerequisite for entering and working. We also know that there is a socially profitable investment with training for refugees. Five-year training for a refugee who already has primary or lower primary school yields four times higher returns than the cost of the investment. The left of the government introduced a new integration law in 2021, which is just giving greater emphasis to differentiating the introduction programme for the individual and aims at formal competence for all participants. Work inclusion is possible only if you get the right tools and are not met for rigid systems. Norway must have an asylum and immigration policy that gives predictability to people in hopeless situations who are awaiting fateful decisions. With the Left in government, we had an integration policy and asylum and immigration policy in place that was significantly improved. It is worth noting that the parties that joined the strep of the previous government's immigration and integration policy now seem to be laying down a more restrictive line. As long as the Left sat in government, we were a guarantor of a human immigration policy and worked hard to ensure that the legislation would be predictable as far as possible for everyone to deal with. Now, the Socialist Left Party seems to have to take over the same role, and I hope that they go right into the role that we did, and carry it on in further budgets. I thank the Committee for the good work that has been done this autumn. The possibility of free movement is a fundamental liberal value. Immigration also stimulates social, cultural and economic growth and makes our society stronger, richer and more diverse. But not all travel because they want it. Over 80 million people today are driven on flight, which equals 1 pst. by the population of the world. The main cause of this is war and conflict, but prospects for climate change and more natural disasters are likely to be experienced as additional pressures on border countries that accept large refugee flows. It is positive that the EU is at the forefront of finding solutions to the migration challenges, and Norway needs to follow up on its work and be ready to deliver in its efforts. Few of us think about how much we do in everyday life that connects society. This happens at the store, at the workplace and through neighbourhoods — where relationships with other people develop. To understand each other, we need to understand each other's language. Our job is to ensure that all people living in Norway are given the opportunity and, if necessary, help to participate in such a relationship building. For most of us, it's a natural part of everyday life. For others, who have come to Norway to start a new life, there is something that may seem inaccessible and unknown. In Norway, we have been good at integrating. Still, we're going to be honest to say that we have some challenges. Those who come to Norway at an adult age have some special challenges in the workplace. It is a pity that this way one shows that one does not take care of the knowledge from the professional life of the home country – the knowledge we can use in Norway. The left in the government was working on the integration reform, which met those challenges. I hope that goes on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2202	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2208	Former government councillor Guri Melby said straight away that the previous government had not been good enough to exploit the great potential of municipalities, businesses and volunteering to qualify more people for work. André Skjelstad himself said — already in 2016 — that it has been particularly important for the Left to ensure the proper integration of children who have stayed in Norway, and to ensure that adult refugees can quickly get into work and activity. What does the representative think about the increase in child poverty on the Left Guard, and how does he explain that more and more immigrants are receiving social assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2217	I have to go back to my own municipality where the experience is greater in what can be done better, and how. It's true that things can always be done better; there's no doubt about it. I think there is a lot that has been done well, but in terms of integrating the poorest, and not least that many ports on social welfare, is not progress as desired. We see it in many municipalities where we're not good enough to help get people to work. But in many areas, which I think was very right also under the previous government, we managed to get many out of work. That's why a jobseeker and not least learning language is very important for those who come new, and who may have a slightly different baggage than what we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2222	I hear that the representative of Skkelstad refers to what the Left got into the government. The representative said, among other things: that they succeeded in getting significantly more people to work. Compared to what happened last time the Centre Party and the Workers' Party were in government, I don't want to say that the statistics are very impressive – on the contrary, the employment share went down. The representative also said that they put in place an immigration and integration policy that was significantly improved. In this period, the Left sat mostly in government together with the Advancement Parity. There are two parties that signal a good deal of different things in immigration and integration policy. I am a little curious about whether the representative can elaborate a little more specifically. What were these significant improvements made by the Left in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2229	It may seem that when a person wants his primary policy, he is a longer away from it in the hall today. The truth was that the breakthrough of the Left when we were in government – and also on the outside – was great. What worries me today is that very much of the weight of a liberal immigration policy lies on a cooperating party on the outside of the government. Because I hear quite clearly – not least what Mr. Greni of Sandtrøen's own party says – that we can expect a significantly less liberal immigration policy than what we have had in the last eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2236	Now I asked if I could get some concrete examples of what these significant improvements were. I just want to ask again if we can get some concrete examples of what these significant improvements were.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2241	I get to repeat myself once again, which has become the space of opportunity when you stand here. In between, you have to wonder if someone is hard-hearing, or if it goes by. There's no doubt that what we've achieved in the last eight years, both when we were sitting on the outside and when we were sitting on the inside of the government offices, was that we got a more liberal immigration policy, which also stood in this. At the same time, we have been clear that we also make demands. But I believe that we have followed up in terms of language and job opportunity, and that it has become significantly better than it was before we entered the government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2246	Although the Progress Party and the Left in many cases in immigration and integration have different policies, I think we share several of the common objectives. Among other things, in the fight against negative social control, I am sure that the representative of Skkelstad agrees with the Progress Party that everyone in Norway should have equal rights and opportunities and that all people should be able to control their own lives. Unfortunately, we know that there are too many girls and women growing up and living in Norway who are not allowed to decide for themselves whether to work, what boyfriend they are going to have, or how to control their lives. I could imagine hearing if the representative of Skelstad and Left have any views on how we can combat negative social control, because it might be interesting to get a slightly wider and larger debate in view of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2253	That's right, there's the Left and the Advance Party on the line. Combating negative social control has been and is one thing that left has been evident in a very long time. It is clear that one must be able to control one's own life without anyone else controlling it for one. It has been an important matter and is an important matter for the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2258	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2263	The Government proposes that migration policy be predictable and responsible, and that high emphasis be placed on stability and continuity. The draft budget is based on the fact that asylum seekers will still be sent to Norway. In the first ten months of 2021, there have been about 1 250 asylum seekers. These are exceptionally few, due to the coronary situation, and about the same level as last year, which was also characterized by the coronary situation. The number of asylum seekers is expected to be 3000 in 2022. From the beginning of 2021 until the end of October, the number of residents in asylum receptions increased from about 1 750 to about 2 500. This is largely due to the fact that several of the refugees from Afghanistan were temporarily placed at reception. Following the requirements and advice of the health authorities, capacity utilisation in the asylum recipients has been lower than in a normal situation, in order to ensure the protection of infection. Reception capacity is normally reduced as the level of arrival is reached, but in the budget we set up to keep a minimum of space at very low levels of arrival, a so-called base capacity. It is important to ensure readiness for arrival and that we have a market for reception operators if arrivals are to increase again at a later date. The Yellow Book proposes to grant 1.2 million. kr to the State Manager for the purpose of establishing a supervisory system for the care of lone minors living in recipients of asylum from 1 July 2022. Proposals for amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act and a new regulation to that effect have been consulted. This government further considers the follow-up to this proposal, which was from the former government. One of the objectives of the government is that asylum seekers can quickly determine whether they are entitled to stay or not, and can adapt accordingly. Effective return work is important to maintain confidence in the asylum system. Low numbers of asylum seekers in recent years have reduced the target population for return. As part of the necessary priorities and in view of the fact that fewer are now required to leave, it is proposed in the Yellow Book to wind up return counselling in the asylum recipients and to reduce subsidies to organisations in order to promote return. Individuals fleeing individual persecution shall be protected. Norway must show solidarity with, and take our share of responsibility for, people on the run. The level of quota refugees is seen in the context of the level of asylum arrivals. In view of the low number of asylum seekers, the government proposes to continue a quota of 3000 in 2022, including any other burden sharing. Furthermore, there has been a significant increase in the number of applications for citizenship following the termination of the principle of one citizenship on 1 January 2020. Furthermore, it is estimated that changes to the residence requirements for applications for citizenship will result in more complex procedures. In order to deal with more cases and more complicated legislation in the field of citizenship, it is proposed in the Yellow Paper to increase the funding to the police and the UDI with a total of 30.1 million. NOK 2022, i.e. to deal with several issues of citizenship. This government is behind that measure. Through participation in Schengen cooperation, Norway has committed itself to European cooperation on the development and use of common ICT infrastructure and the sharing of information. It is an important measure to improve Norway’s capacity to prevent, avert and combat cross-border crime, illegal migration and terrorism. It is proposed to grant 302.5 million. kr to implement and update the ICT systems, including 94.7 million. kr of these goes to UDI and UNE.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2284	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2290	In the Hurdal Platform, the government writes that the number of quota refugees should be seen in the context of the number of asylum seekers. Now, the number of asylum seekers, on which the Council of State itself was also involved in its intervention, is very low. Does this mean that the government will consider opening up the possibility of accepting more quota refugees to Norway now, and at what level must asylum arrivals be in order to consider increasing the number of quota refugees to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2295	No, we're not now considering accepting more. We're going to base the number that the previous government took into account, 3,000, and we're going to continue the level as it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2300	Then it is nice if the Council of State can also elaborate on what you really put in what you write in the Hurdal platform that you should see it in context, and at the same time see if it might be relevant to negotiate with SV on this issue. I also have another question. On the right, as I also mentioned, it is believed that the quota system is also important to accept whole families to Norway. One of the reasons for this is that you can then pick up whole families together and so limit the need for family reunification. The Hurdals platform states, first of all, that the priority should be given to minor asylum seekers in the proceedings. It also states that priority should be given to women and children in the event of withdrawal of quota refugees. Misunderstand me correctly: Of course, it is nice to bring women and children to Norway, but if you give priority to it in front of families, you may need an increased need for family reunification. Does the Council of State see that that policy can lead to increased use of family reunification, and does she think it is a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2311	This government is concerned that within the quota system we have, we want to help groups that are very vulnerable. There may be children and women and others in a difficult situation. With regard to family reunification legislation, there are strict conditions under which it can be qualified, and it is also important for this government to continue, irrespective of who is applying for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2318	In a previous exchange of lines, I challenged the Workers' Party on the serious situation it has had and is on the border between Belarus and Poland, i.e. the external border of Schengen, and called on the European Commission to temporarily restrict the right of asylum for people seeking asylum in Poland, Latvia and Lithuania. It could have been interesting to hear the views of the Council of State. Does the government support the European Commission in restricting the right to asylum? And will the government also call for a restriction of the right of asylum to Norway, as we are also part of the external border, which can now quickly come under pressure?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2323	I believe the question from the Progress Party is based on the wrong premise. As far as I can see, the EU has not proposed to restrict the right to apply for asylum, but they have proposed to introduce some temporary rules, for example. by indicating the place where asylum may be applied for and the time limits for processing, etc. But it's the same people who have the opportunity to do it, as I know it. In line with other countries, the government is concerned that we in Norway should be prepared to deal with possible changes in the flow of asylum, and we are working on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2330	The Council of State mentions in its contribution unaccompanied minors. How the first time in Norway becomes a lone minor depends to a great extent on whether the UDI lands on whether it is over or under 18 years of age. For many, it may be difficult and impossible to prove whether you are a single minor or whether you are going to be treated as an adult. UDI has a practice that facilitates an age test using different practices, x-rays and also the evaluation of teeth. It's a practice nobody really says makes sense. You can't prove if a youth is 17 years old or 19 years old with this method. That's what the testers themselves say. Will the Council of State take the initiative to look at that practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2337	I am concerned that, as far as possible, we can ensure that applications for asylum are properly processed. Therefore, it is also important in the case of lone minors that we have systems to manage age control, so that it cannot be used as a loophole for older people to take advantage of the opportunity to get to Norway. We will constantly work on improvements to ensure better reputation, more efficient processing and, not least, care for those who are actually children.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2344	Following the refugee crisis in 2015, former Minister of Immigration and Integration Sylvi Listhaug UDI retained some of the increased appropriations to investigate old asylum cases, leading to a large increase in the withdrawal of citizenship in recent years. In the Red's alternative budget, we reverse these increased appropriations for this work because we believe that this practice endangers the legal certainty of Norwegian citizens. Can the Council of State agree that this practice is a threat to the legal certainty of some designated groups, or will the Council of State continue to set aside appropriations to follow up the legacy of Listhaug also in future budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2349	In cases where residence, citizenship or other rights in Norway have been granted on an incorrect basis, it is reasonable that it is handled within the framework of the law. I believe that this is important in order to ensure the stability and calmness of immigration policy and that those who actually need help can get help. As far as the UDI is concerned, I feel that they have a general need for all the means they can get, and it is right that they get the necessary resources to deal with the issues that affect them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2356	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2362	No political task is more important than getting people a job. Work is the key to the rest. Own money, the sense of mastery and increased dignity, self-occupancy, good health, better integration and social life – all of this will be easier if you have a job to do. At Hurdal, we agreed on concrete policies to qualify more people for work and to ensure that more people can support themselves and their families. For the first time since 2013, the kindergarten prize is being lowered, in addition to our state budget. It means something to people. It means something to the integration when the thresholds are lowered. What does a nursery place mean for the qualification of the labour force? Yes, politics works: The Stoltenberg government started its trial of free core time in kindergartens in some parts of Oslo from 2006. The four- and five-year-olds in these residential areas with a high proportion of minorities were offered free of charge in 20 hours per week. Researchers have now followed these children over time and found more positive results when the students have taken national tests at the eighth stage. These students have achieved better mastery in the national reading test. Children in low-income families where mother does not work seem to have had the greatest benefit from free core time in terms of both reading and 8th-stage math skills, and the boys have had the greatest benefit in terms of reading. Politics works. Just look at what we got into the City Council in Oslo. In recent years, students in Oslo have improved their qualifications both in high school and in secondary school. Several young people apply for vocational training, and several students complete and pass the school cycle. These are results in Oslo School that speak for themselves. A few weeks ago I was visiting the municipality of Lørenskog and was greeted by the participants in Jobbsjansen. The municipality has good results, much thanks to the cooperation with the private local business community. We'll strengthen Job's weight by 10 million. kr in our budget. For the Workers' Party, the individual's ability to get a job and to support himself and his family has been the most important objective of integration policy. Now there will be 1000 new sites for action as early as next year. We're going to strengthen the job opportunities, which help to get more immigrant women out of work at home. Hubs are reinforced by 100 million. kr – there is room for closer follow-up of persons without work. This is a budget that gets more people to work. It's good for the individual and for society. Work is the key to the rest, and the path to work is through education and qualification. Earlier today I mentioned Kapur's posts here in the hall on Monday. He spoke not only about the municipal and living conditions, but also about the integration policy, which had been renewed under Erna Solberg's government. He pointed out that they provided more Norwegian training, better housing policies and better introduction programmes, and that the programme that takes place in reception is much better than before. But what is the phase after these eight years and a renewed integration policy? Indeed, more and more immigrants are receiving social assistance. Half of those receiving social assistance in Norway are now born abroad. Many people have short living, and it may take time for refugees to get into work, we know that. In one case at the NRK, Nav points to the lack of competence and language skills in Norwegian as two of the main reasons for low employment among immigrants. I find it difficult to see that Erna Solberg as Prime Minister has been particularly successful in this field. Now we have no time to lose. Some groups of countries make up almost 27 pst. by the long-term unemployed. Many of these have low education, and we have a labour market that requires competence. This means that the unskilled must be qualified. Applicants with insufficient formal qualifications and poor basic skills need to be better trained. Then we will get more in work, fewer unemployed and fewer in social security in the long term. Increased employment among immigrants pays off for society. If we had 20 000 more employees, we would have an increased room for action of 10 billion in ten years. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2393	In 2003, former municipal minister Erna Solberg introduced the Introduction Act, and 16 years later Jan Tore Sanner introduced the new Integration Act. In the last 20 years, the Right has been leading all the major integration commitments in Norway. I see that the Workers' Party continues to doubt a political commentator's role, in which it criticises above all rather than make concrete proposals. I also think it is quite special to talk about employment among people with short living in Norway without even mentioning that it was during the years that the Right controlled, that they accepted record numbers of refugees and settled them – they are running an introduction program. It'll take some time before everyone's over, but we've renewed the program, we've reinforced it, and we got more settlement than the Workers' Party managed. We got something done with that field too, but now leave it. We in this room agree, I think, that the goal must be to include as much as possible in working and social life. Then you are in the language and competence key. Having a job to do is valuable to the individual, and high levels of professional participation are a prerequisite for achieving a sustainable welfare society. It is therefore important for immigrants themselves that they have the Norwegian knowledge and skills they need to meet the needs and demands of the labour market. Here, the Solberg government has done a great deal to reform the integration programme, so that Norwegian training is improved and more people receive vocational letters and education in Norway. The biggest difference between people in Norway is between those who have jobs and those who are outside. That is why we in the Right believe that including more people in the labour market is important for combating exclusion and getting well integrated. Anyone who can and wants it should have the chance. It must be the most important thing for all of us. It is, of course, if you do not get into the labour market, that there is exclusion and poverty. Figures from the SSB show that the increase in inequality in recent years is represented by children with a migrant background because they often have parents who are not in work, or have only one income and a short residence. Children who grow up in their homes where their parents have jobs and education are more likely to succeed later in life than children who do not have the same upbringing. So the important thing for us now must be to make sure that the social differences do not pass on. Then work and school are the most important things. That is why, in our time in government, we have provided free core time in the kindergarten, reduced the price in kindergarten and SFO for low-income families, and have increased the amount of child benefit and introduced leisure cards. All children deserve a good upbringing and a school that provides opportunities for everyone regardless of their parents’ finances. In some areas of our largest cities, we know that the challenges of living conditions are quite complex: there may be social background, there may be housing, and there may be many other elements, but we know that living conditions, housing, housing, high unemployment, child poverty – and often a large proportion of immigrant populations – are what remains in these areas. For this reason, it is important that we now have better coordinated efforts in these areas, that we move towards a new way of thinking, where not only are we looking at the classic structures of the area effort, but also to a much greater extent are looking at creating a local business and jobs, and not least even more at the early stages of work and prevention in the field of youth crime. This requires more than one instance to work together. A programme that has worked very well in Oslo is the SALTO programme, which I believe several representatives in the Chamber agree. With the Right in government we renewed and extended the area bet, but unfortunately we have heard that there are unused funds at the bet in Oslo South. I hope the Labour Party in the government keeps a little in mind and asks for some reporting on why the use of money is not the way it should be. I also hope, regardless of the differences in this room, that precisely in terms of integration policy, we can agree that here we have to go together, where work and school are and become the most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2408	The government has great ambitions for the integration field, and our main goal is to get more people to work, build strong communities and good common arenas, promote equality and counteract negative social control. I mean, we're providing a good budget here today to achieve these ambitions in the long term. It is, as the representative Gassemyr Staalese says, so that work is the key to integration, and the way to work goes through qualification and education. It is important that immigrants and people with a migrant background contribute their resources, and it is a common task to reduce the barriers to participation. Essentially, I think I'm talking about three types of barriers to working life. These are the socio-economics, among other things. may relate to level of education and Norwegian knowledge. The second is cultural barriers, i.e. conditions in their own cultural luggage that can make it difficult to deal with Norwegian conditions. And it might seem strangely delineating to women. Thirdly, it is about barriers that can relate to discrimination in the labour market. There are barriers that you can meet on the way in and on the way up to work. This government wants to remove these barriers, so we're going to go through the qualification processes that exist for immigrants, to ensure that they help to get more people to work as much as possible. It is also an assumption that there are good, safe jobs available, and the government will remove the general predilection of temporary employment and make firm, whole settings for a clear general rule in the world of work. The fact that we have a high degree of organisation means something to everyone. This means that we have a high level of trust, a low level of conflict and better productivity than very many other countries. And it's a pity that people who are new in Norway are more likely to have the same opportunities as the majority people. In addition, the labour and social budget has proposed 1 000 new action sites and a stronger operational budget for Nav, so that they can help more people to get into work. And immigrants are a priority group at Nav. Furthermore, the government will work to break down the cultural barriers. They're often invisible. They're not easy to counteract, but I think that an important way to do it is to talk about them and realize that they exist. More consciousness also makes it easier to break down these barriers. The third barrier that people with a migrant background can face in their working life is discrimination. We know that many highly qualified people are put aside in the search center because they have the wrong name, the wrong skin color, or the wrong religion. Unfortunately, it is well documented that such discrimination exists. The Government shall establish an action plan against racism and discrimination, which shall include targeted measures to address such barriers in the labour market. We know that immigrants are overrepresented in those parts of the world of work where there is the greatest risk of social dumping and unsafe contracts, labour crime and quite demanding pay and working conditions. This is one of the reasons why the government has chosen to move the field of integration to the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, because this is a situation in which we need to improve the links between labour and labour policies. It is also the case that women with a migrant background are far less employed than both the majority of the population in general and those with a migrant background. Many ladies are far from the labour market and need basic qualification. In the budget, the government proposes to strengthen Jobjeansen by 10 million. kr. This will help more women with a migrant background to get to work. I have registered the commitment to negative social control in the debate that has been so far. It's an engagement I share, and I look forward to cooperating on several policy measures during the year ahead of us. I also registered the post of representative Kapur, who said that the big ones in the last 20 years in the integration field are legal work on the intro programme and the integration law. I have to admit that I like legal work, but even I have to recognise that this is too simple. For example, the introduction of minority advisors in secondary schools has been an important effort against negative social control introduced by the Stoltenberg government. One has to measure the results, and when we see that there is an overrepresentation of immigrants in social assistance after eight years with Erna Solberg as Prime Minister, it has to be allowed to ask: How does Right seem to have gone?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2436	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2441	I did not hear the council say anything special about the ongoing coronary apathy in their post, which affects the Norwegian economy very hard. As the Council of State also knows, unfortunately, there is a low level of vaccine coverage in a number of nationalities. I think it is very positive that the government has said that they will provide support to non-governmental organisations to bring more knowledge. We also see that the problem is greatest among those born in Poland, Romania, Latvia and Lithuania, which is, to a large extent, EEA labour immigration. Measures aimed at volunteering are good, but I hope the government is also active and evaluates other tools to bring up the vaccine coverage in the situation we are in now. What is the government planning to do in the future to ensure that more people are vaccinated, in addition to support for these organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2448	It's absolutely right that I've made sure it's now 20 million. available to voluntary organisations to strengthen their efforts to raise the level of vaccination also among the immigrant population. These funds are announced with a relatively short deadline, but our experience is that voluntary organisations are doing a very important job of obtaining this kind of information and helping more people with immigrant backgrounds also take the vaccine. Last day, I also invited the social partners to a meeting with the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion to find out more ways we can work together with employers’ and employers’ organisations to make information and vaccines more accessible. This is particularly important in view of migrant workers in Norway, not least from Eastern European countries, where we have seen that vaccination rates have been low. This is important for their health, their family and their security, but it is also important for the Norwegian economy that they are quickly vaccinated, so that they feel more secure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2455	Thanks for the answer. The right is also going to follow the situation for these, and I hope, of course, that the measures will help to increase the level of vaccine in Norway. Then I want to use the opportunity to ask another question. As the Council of State was also involved in its contribution, it is to be able to Norwegian incredibly important in order to get into work and through further education. We know that there have been, and are, very wide variations in the quality of Norwegian training in different parts of the country. Some of the measures in the integration strategy of the government of Solberg were just improving quality, for example: through qualification requirements for teachers who also have Norwegian training. For example, another measure that is positive to the right is: to introduce national tests in Norwegian training. If we are to be able to understand the quality of the training, we also need to know how the training is given. Will the Council consider including national samples in Norwegian immigrant training?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2466	Yes, I can evaluate that. What matters to me and to this government is to help more people get into work. So we're going to go through all the skills available to people who have migrated to Norway to help raise the quality and help more people feel that they're going to get into work, and not into social assistance, as we've seen far too much over the last eight years with Erna Solberg in government. I have to admit that I think it has been rather doubtful to see that more than half of those who go on social assistance are born in another country. Then it must be safe to say that the measures you have seen so far have not had the desired effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2473	As for those who have a different country background, and who are also overrepresented in receiving social assistance, I agree that we still have to do something about it. I also agree that one of the most important measures we can then take is to ensure that more people come to work. I think it is tempting in this exchange of lines, and also in the debate that has taken place, where several have advanced the proportion with a different country background receiving social assistance, to recall that in 2015 we also had a relatively large proportion of new arrivals in Norway, which has now been through a qualification cycle, and that we see that the number of immigrants with refugee background coming out of work is rising. We also saw that the proportion of immigrants employed was higher before the pandemic than when we took over in 2013. So I believe that some of the measures that have been implemented have worked well. I agree with the Council of State that it is important that we continue to address these challenges. Then my question is, how will the Council of State now, when she rules, ensure that you get the share that receives social assistance down?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2482	Some of the most important things are qualification, and I am pleased that we have seen money for several action sites and a stronger operating budget in Nav. It is clear that it also means something for what kind of follow-up you get, and whether that follow-up is close enough to help you build bridges to work. I am happy that we have also been able to spend more money on Job. It means something for immigrant women who live in their homes, who may have quite a long distance from work and may need special organisation and follow-up in order to be able to work. In addition, I want to go through the qualifications that exist today, to ensure that we can raise the quality of them, so that more people come to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2490	For the Advancement Party, it is important that all people in Norway be treated equally, regardless of their skin color, ethnicity, background, orientation, economy, etc. It is an important principle and, not least, it is important to be clear about it also in the integration debate and policy. Now we've had a time when a lot of people have been in line with Nav to get more benefits in the difficult time we've been up in, and I think more people are responding when the council says, "Immigrants are a priority group at Nav." A few years ago, the Progress Party got rid of the special benefits refugees had in the social security system, as they had better earnings when it came to pensions and social security. The Labour Party and the Council of State voted against it. Is it relevant for today's Council of State to reintroduce special benefits for refugees in the field of pensions and social security?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2497	There are three groups that are particularly priority at Nav. It's long-term unemployed, it's young people, and it's immigrants. This has been the case for the last eight years, while the Progress Party either has a seat in the Ministry of Labour or supports the budgets of the Erna Solberg government. I hope that this has not come as a surprise to the representative of Wiborg – he himself has the seat of the Labour and Social Committee in parts of that period. So these have been some of the guides that have been in the Nav assignment letters for quite a long time. It should not come as a surprise to the representative of Wiborg, and when I draw up – in this debate, which is therefore about integration – that immigrants are a priority group at Nav, it is because that is what is relevant to this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2502	Governments underlined the challenge of providing opportunities for all with a multicultural background in the labour market. They need that, and we need that. So this is a complex area, but it's a well documented fact that, unfortunately, discrimination also plays a role here, and the name can actually be the biggest obstacle to getting a good job. Therefore, it is very gratifying that the government is working on an action plan and says something about drawing up several good actions. It is tempting – and I hope it is allowed – to ask if the Council of State may interrupt some of the measures and some of the work that you are working on to put them in place in an action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2507	I thank you very much for the question. There is a strong need for a person to talk more about the barriers that can be quite invisible, but which still help to keep people with a migrant background away from work, or avoid uprooting in the workplace, and racism and ethnic discrimination can be one of the barriers. Within the next year, I will be working on an action plan in this field, and I look forward to working together with both voluntary organisations and other competence environments to develop the most targeted actions possible. A lot of it is about raising awareness of the structural barriers that this creates, so that we can help fewer people experience these kinds of barriers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2512	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2517	Those who come to Norway from other countries have a lot to do, and most are interested in both contributing and being well integrated into the Norwegian community. The main barriers to integration are language and cultural understanding. Our task as a large-scale society is therefore to bring down these barriers as quickly and as efficiently as possible. Therefore, all newly arrived refugees have a right and duty to participate in the introduction programme, where they will gain basic skills in Norwegian, basic insight into Norwegian society and preparation for work or education. The municipalities have an obligation to provide an introduction programme for newly arrived immigrants in the target population residing in the municipality. Individual immigrants shall receive an individualised programme with clear individual final objectives for the programme. There are three main features of the real integration into society after the introduction programme has raised newcomers to a minimum level in terms of language and cultural understanding. The three main tracks are education, work and voluntary sector. Good education brings out the potential in humans. We should be proud and happy that in Norway we have a good education system that is accessible to everyone. It balances differences and provides opportunities for social mobility. We may see that best among new countrymen, where illiterate children take higher education and get well paid jobs. The greatest difference between people is between those in the world of work and those outside. Work is the key to integration, as the Minister of Labour and Inclusion was also involved in his previous post. In the workplace, the newly arrived languages, culture and a profession that they can master with pride. Therefore, it is important to use the workplace as an arena for Norwegian training; it is not necessarily a good idea to separate the training from the working life in which the newcomer is to work. The possibility of taking a professional letter at work gives proud and competent employees. I've had the pleasure of watching Fairing Use in Lørenskog, where it is produced picks, gravel and stones in all dimensions. In the work community, employees are encouraged to take professional letters. The employees get documented and improved their skills, they get a little higher pay, and they get a pride that is to touch and feel. The third main track is through the voluntary sector. Fortunately, it is large and diverse in Norway. The voluntary sector is not primarily an arena to help immigrants, but an arena where they can unfold in line with other Nordics and contribute their own. Sport and culture are an informal arena that gives something quite different than what can be learned from an introduction program, in school or at work. That is cultural understanding in practice. This is important for both adults and children with a minority background. Unfortunately, not everyone can afford to participate in the leisure activities they want. The government of Solberg, therefore, launched a programme of children’s and young people’s leisure cards. It has given children and young people the opportunity to participate in activities that they would not otherwise have been able to afford. For the Right, it is important that the family economy should not prevent children from participating in culture and sport. It is therefore with a heavy heart that I see that the government Støre – as one of the first things it did – terminated the system of activity cards for children and young people. I have registered that the representatives of the government parties have argued that a small part of the money taken from the children is used to strengthen the general economy of sports. Of the government's cut of about 400 million. kr on an annual basis – targeted at the poorest children – goes under half, i.e. 150 million. kr, for VAT compensation to the voluntary sector. It helps very little for those children who don't join the sports team. Now that I've mentioned the three main pathways of inclusion, I finally have to make it clear that much of the integration is taking place completely outside of organized life. At Storting, we are often most focused on what is directly affected by the state budget and decision-making, but the most important integration is everyday integration through good communities and neighbors who care for each other. This day-to-day integration does not exist as an item in the budget or in the form of a roll-out decision — nor should it find its way into the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2534	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2539	There are many good recipes for good integration. We find one of those recipes in Gjøvik's Globe Café. It is an international café run by immigrant women from many different nationalities, a very successful and impressive project to get immigrant women into work. A safe job and a wage to live from is essential for the individual's freedom and for an inclusive and strong community. Good work for all is the most important task of this government. That is why the main objective of our integration work is to get more people to work. Since 2016, Gjøvik's globe café has been part of the national system Jobsjansen. Women from 25 different nationalities have participated in the project. Through cooking, work training and social contact, participants are motivated and prepared to go to work. The results of the project at Gjøvik are quite impressive. Every year they can get between 70 and 80 pst. by those taking part in the work. A total of 60 women have been given a job after going through the offer at the Globe Café. The municipality of Gjøvik contributes wages and salaries to the project. For this year's municipal budget, the municipal director had proposed the removal of funds. However, under the local government in Gjøvik today, I hope the funds will be maintained. In this case, a reinforced transfer from today's government may have helped to keep the project alive. Initially, the example of Gjøvik is a simple recipe, but it requires great effort from firemen like Monica Vilnes, who run this place. This offer means a great deal – not just for immigrant women, but for the whole community, which has a unique meeting place, and where volunteering is also connected through the Volunteer Centre. Getting to an unknown country without being able to speak and without being able to get a job must be a very difficult situation to which no one should be subjected. Therefore, it is important to continue to invest in the offer of Gjøvik and other measures within Jobsjansen, and that is why I am pleased that we are strengthening Jobsjansen by 10 million today. kr. If the local government maintains the offer, I will promise the members of the municipal committee that we will take a trip to the Globus Café on our committee tour. Then they're going to have to serve the same thing I got, Palestinian sambosa, and it was good.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2556	Immigration has made Norway a more diverse and open society. With song and dance, the Color Game Foundation has made festive performances with children and young people for almost 20 years. They have created meeting places where different cultural backgrounds and heritage become art. In Westfold, Color Games Larvik has, among others: performed performances together with the Royal Norwegian Navy Music Corps. Color games are also an example of how voluntary efforts contribute to integration. Next year, it's the year of volunteering. Many voluntary countries around them are making a major contribution to integration. In the budget agreement, we strengthen the role of voluntary organisations in the integration process. Full VAT compensation for voluntary organisations is also an important contribution. The Norwegian model of scattered settlement and the way in which we have organised Norwegian society is among the main reasons why we have done so well with integration. Several municipalities, such as Vinje in Vestfold and Telemark, are good examples of this. In Vinje, they do something so practical that when new countrymen are picked up at the airport, they have someone who is already integrated from the same country. On the way home from the airport, they could be a door opener and tell about practical things. The faster those admitted to stay in Norway integrate, the better. Housing, language, work or education is essential for entering the Norwegian community. Better and longer-term financial support schemes shall be put in place for municipalities that settle refugees with special needs, in order to ensure that all those who have received a residence permit are settled as soon as possible. The Hurdal Platform describes how we will invest in kindergarten in areas with integration, language and living conditions challenges. SFO is an important community arena, where all children can participate, experience listening and learning languages. In particular, for children with a migrant background, the SFO can contribute to more inclusion and better language skills. In the budget agreement with SV, we agreed that all municipalities should have a free half-day seat on the SFO for first-class students from the next harvest. Making demands and setting them is the main objective of the government's integration work. Yes, it's about getting more people to work. Yes, it's about building strong communities and good common arenas. Yes, it's about promoting equality and combating negative social control. These objectives will contribute to the achievement of the budgetary agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2573	This seems to me to be a constructive and good debate that is characterized by solutions and what we can do to be more happy with integration, because it is clear that when we see the statistics when it relates to particular participation in the labour market, there is too much that is not working. It is also clear that then I fully agree with Councilman Tajik that we have to do much more than just legal work. What we are doing in the budgetary agreement, as my good colleague from Vestfold said now – when it comes to voluntary organisations, welfare initiatives, distribution policies and what we are doing in working life – will have a huge amount to say both for integration and for people across the country. Several have been on the theme of negative social control and honorary power today. There's a need to do a lot more here. We know, for example, the need to build a stronger environment of competence in police districts. It was the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV engaged in the entire previous period and propose up to several times, without any support from the Right, Left, Christian People's Party, who did not participate in the debate today, or the Progress Party. We need to strengthen the regular support services, and we need to intensify the criminal responses by means of honorary authority as well as the form of crime. It is so important that we in the Municipal Committee, which is responsible for integration, also have this debate here today with both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Labour. Lifetime challenges, which many have faced today, are unlikely to be important. We have a selection, the Jensen selection, where the government – and the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV – now commits to coming to the Storting in the next year with a case of their own to follow it up. Otherwise, I think that the Advance Party might soon have to decide a little about what they think about assistance. Yesterday, the party leader in the Progress Party, Sylvi Listhaug, said that the aid did not work, while today we belong to Erlend Wiborg, who believes that this is what can work in the vicinity. The government party and SV are busy building a solidarity pot, where we're giving 2 billion priority. I already have this item in the Trash folder. Would you like to add it to the right now? I just remind you that there is more to it than the Progress Party places on the table when it concerns their bet in the vicinity. So there's well a little distance between what one says and what one does in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2584	It's nice to sit and listen to this debate. Randomly, I and the Health Committee are going to have another debate right away, and I have to say that there's something nauseating about some of the posts I hear. There's something about people on the run, people who have to leave what they love and the people they love, they don't do it voluntarily, and they don't do it because of any loophole. Personally, I chose to participate in this debate because my family and I have a refugee story. We've spent many years talking about all that we didn't experience, and on all the stories about the homeland that fell into ruins. I, as a former child who has been in refugee reception, am very grateful to stand here in Norway today, in the national pulpit, and talk about why it is important that we continue to stand up and be solidarity – and do not send money to crowded refugee camps and think that giving a little pot to children will help them have a good future. I know too many people who are still in refugee camps in countries in the neighbourhoods, where having training or getting a job or perhaps even contributing to the political work is unimaginable. So I'm glad that SV's immigration policy is a policy that works. There are strikingly many who have a false concern for women with a minority background and their fight against social control. With that I choose to read out some of the slogans of Norwegian women went under in the 1970s. They fought for equal rights to work, education and pay, for the right to day-care and leisure homes for children, and for equal and secure pension rights and social rights for women. The struggle for women's liberation has always gone through work, through wages and through economic freedom. I am very pleased that this government has chosen to bet on it, and has taken the inclusion work in conjunction with other work, because these struggles are linked. At the same time, I would also like to thank Mrs Solberg, who, when she was a municipal minister, started work on the introduction programme. Then she failed a little later, when she thought that hard work and temporary jobs were what would get more people to work. We need a inclusion policy that works. It's about taking people seriously and knowing that they have the same dreams and ambitions as other people, and that immigrants and refugees are quite like you and me – they also have hopes and aspirations for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2598	The President would like to make it clear that using the word 'favourable' if the posts of others are not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2603	The government, with the Central Party and the Workers' Party, is clear that Norwegian migration policy should be predictable. We put a lot of emphasis on stability, and we add up to broad settlements. In order to ensure good integration, we need to have control over our own borders and who comes to the country. If we're going to be able to take care of the welfare state, we're dependent on succeeding integration. That means we have to get more people to work. This is a very clear priority for the government. There is also an important reason why we now have a Minister of Labour and Inclusion. Work and inclusion are closely linked, as the new Council of State's responsibilities show. The main objective of the government's integration work is to increase the number of people working, while promoting equality and combating negative social control. In short, we will fight that as much as possible can live an independent and free life. The development of the eight-year Central Party and the Workers' Party last put together in government was positive. At that time, employment among immigrants increased significantly. The employment rate went up by 5.7 pst, and what did that mean? Well, almost 200,000 more immigrants came to work. The government is clear that those who are granted a residence in Norway should be quickly integrated. Housing, work or education is essential for entering the Norwegian community as soon as possible, learning the language and participating in the same way as everyone else. This is necessary to maintain trust in each other and to avoid the development of parallel societies and alienations. It is essential for the government to give children with a migrant background the opportunity to participate in major Community arenas. One of the most important Community arenas is kindergarten. Today, almost one in five children with a migrant background do not go to kindergarten. We want to make it easier for more people to start in kindergarten. This government makes sure that we get both cheaper kindergartens and more kindergarten teachers. With a reduction in the maximum price, a family with two children in kindergarten will save almost NOK 5000 per year. With more reasonable and easier access to childcare facilities, we make it easier for parents to send children to kindergarten and not least that they can participate in the workplace themselves. Both parts are very important. The representative of Skkelstad accused me of being cumbersome. I asked what significant improvements the Left and the Advance Party made – together with the government – in the field of immigration and integration. As I was accused of being hard-to-hear, I just have to ask again: What laws were changed, what regulations were changed – and what were the concrete measures that were significant improvements?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2616	I am not the representative of Skkelstad, but I can nevertheless – as a representative of a party in the former government – say that there are many concrete improvements. If Per Martin Sandtrøen calls for laws, one has the new law of introduction, such as: is about providing better language training, which is about having more standardised modules in the introduction programme, to mention something. It has been working for a year, and I hope to see the good effects of it in the future. I would also like to take the floor to comment on some of the claims that came from the very representative of Per Martin Sandtrøen regarding employment. The number of immigrants at work has increased by over 100,000 between 2013 and 2020. So if you look at the proportion of immigrants employed, it was higher in 2019 before the pandemic hit us than it was when the Right took over in 2013. But the pandemic has also hit quite a lot of those who may have the lowest education, quite hard. It shows that we have a great need to also work a lot with this in the future. I think it's an important point that we also look at the results for the second generation to see how well integration is going. There we see that there are many who succeed, but at the same time there are also major challenges associated with second-generation immigrants. In conclusion, I would also like to join what the representative, Mr. Wagslid, said. I think it has been a good and constructive debate, which I believe demonstrates that there are many in the Chamber here and in the Committee who are sincerely committed to improving integration in Norway. I just have to apologize in advance if I did not understand the representative Hussein correctly, but I heard her say that there was someone in the room who had false care for women who are subjected to negative social control. I can only say for my part that there are many people and many political opinions in this room I disagree with, but I think everyone in this room has a sincere concern and will do something about that problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2627	I will also briefly summarise some of what has been said in the debate. But first to the representative Hussein, who was in and came up with quite strong words, and as soon as the post was worth it, she left the hall instead of being here and actually hearing the debate. I think it's weird. This debate is essentially about two things. One is about immigration, and then it's about integration. Of course, they are linked, but I note that the Progress Party is the only party that has today addressed the great challenge of thousands of people drowning in the Mediterranean because Norway and Europe have a faulty immigration policy, in particular a faulty asylum system, which does not help those who need the most help. On the contrary, the system ensures that the most resource-intensive people are often able to get to Europe, filling the wallets with human traffickers. There is a great need to change immigration policy to Europe and to Norway. I note that the Danish Government fully agrees with the Progress Party here. They take good action, which is in line with what the Progress Party wants in order to achieve a more humane and better immigration policy. I also note that the Socialist Left warns that they expect a greater impact on immigration and integration policy in the future. I really hope that the Workers' Party-Center Party government doesn't give them that, but I'm not completely reassured. What I like to think is positive after the debate is that there's been so much focus on negative social control, because that's one of the biggest challenges we have. As I have said several times in the debate, we cannot accept that we have girls and women growing up here in Norway, but who do not have the same rights that we all take for granted. There is a great difference between standing on this platform and agreeing that the fight against negative social control is important, because it is also about what concrete measures are being taken. And I'm sorry – that some people boast about the number of leisure clubs, they're not the ones who make sure that they have negative social control. It is about concrete measures. It is still early in this growing period, but I note that the initiative of the Progress Party in several areas has been shut down by the other parties without the launch of a single proposal from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the other parties on how to overcome negative social control. But I am absolutely sure that we will have time to discuss this in the future, because the Progress Party does not give itself in the fight until everyone who lives in Norway is given equal rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2640	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2657	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2674	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2691	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the allocated speaking time in the debate will be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes, and the President will organise the debate as follows: Labour Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Centre Party 10 minutes, Progress Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Red 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Environmental Party Green 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Patient focus 5 minutes and members of the Government 5 minutes. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, there will be up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the party and eight lines with replies from members of the government. In addition, those who may subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2700	First, a tribute to the Committee and to the Committee Secretary, Kirsten Gemmdal. Budgetary work has been squeaky-free on the first attempt. The health budget for 2022 is a good budget. The new government and SV have made some changes to the Solberg government’s proposal. Not everyone is as impressive for us, for example. when cutting to the fountain houses, or when the Centre Party and the majority here on the Stortinget are scrapping the important project of security housing for the elderly in the districts. But it is overall a good health budget for the country also next year. In health policy, we should ask ourselves: What if it was me -- me that was nurturing, me that was related, me that was working in the service? In the patient’s health care, the Right believes it is important to ask the patient: What is most important to you? Because we've asked and listened, we've put in place a package for a lot of diseases and diagnoses. Package trajectories define the course of treatment all the time and ensure that the professional resources find each other, create safety and predictability for the patient. We also listened to Eve and the man Amund when she was cancerish. They call for better follow-up in the post-acute phase. Hopefully everything is ready to roll out the ‘package run home’ throughout Norway in the new year. We are fully in line with the Cancer Association, which in the hearing pointed to the importance of this. We expect it to be followed up by the government. The Covid-19 pandemic has taken a lot of our health care and of our society. Now we are in a new and demanding phase with a large spread of infection and more serious illness than so far in the pandemic. In the short term, our government took important steps to grant extra billions of money to hospitals and municipalities, to provide significantly more equipment and to provide training to 3 100 health professionals to assist in intensive treatment of covid patients. However, the situation is and has been demanding, and therefore a long-term work has also started to strengthen the permanent intensive capacity of Norwegian hospitals. Heroes in healthcare are also just humans. Heroes get worn out, and there are limits to what heroes tolerate. Therefore, we believe that measures to relieve health professionals need to be considered through more use of support personnel, for example. for nurses. The decision-makers still have to be the important piece in the patient's healthcare, each of us being their closest, but also the very gatekeeper in the system. We have to set up through the escalation plan for the fixed medical system and ensure that we retain and recruit fixed doctors in the future. The pandemic will mark the year we go into, but we also have to have a 360-degree look at health care. In order to avoid further increases in waiting times, our heartfelt call to the government is to allow private operators with free capacity to continue to be part of the solution – do not let ideological skyscrapers help us to get a more two-part healthcare service, where only those with a lot of money will be able to use the free private capacity. It is in the municipalities that we receive most of the health services, from the midwife who follows up the pregnant, the caregiver, the health care provider at the school, the psychologist at the health centre and those who follow up the young people who are at risk of developing drug addiction, to the home care nurse or the health professional at the hospital. The right competences in the municipal health and care services are so fundamental to the help we receive. Our law-making of qualifications requires local authorities to have links with doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, midwives, health-seekers, ergot therapists and psychologists. By means of Competence Plan 2020, 146 000 employees have completed basic, continuing or continuing training. This work must continue and must be further prioritised. Then we expect that the government, which, overall, also has most rapporteurs in the country, will ensure a vigilance for all full-time jobs. It provides quality health care and ensures sustainable health care in the years to come. If I were the one who walked in the halls of the hospital and was anxious because no one cared for the little children at home, even though those children are adults and have children themselves, then it would be important for me and my relatives that I was in safe hands, with employees who have knowledge of dementia care, and who know that by playing a song by Dire Straits I get a good moment. For this reason, it has been important for the Right, and will be important to continue to give priority to care and care for the elderly by continuing to contribute to interventions in several care centres and day-care centres. And we have to look at relatives – see them and hear them and understand that they need relief. Finally, thank you to all of you who work in the patient’s healthcare service – thank you for the job you do, and for being there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2723	Will the representative address the proposal to the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2728	Yes, I will – thank you for the reminder.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2733	Then the representative, Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2740	Much of what Troeen says is quite right, not least the challenges she describes in the municipal health service, in the specialist health service, with a fixed crisis, and not least, as we now see under the pandemic, is the crisis of intenseness. The background to this is the lack of people. It's been too little over time. It's a long-term notified crisis. In the last eight years, questions have been asked and proposals have been made in this Chamber that have been put to the vote and not taken further. It's important to have a good basic understanding of the situation, but the most important thing is what you actually do with it. What I'm asking is, why in every day has it not been possible to deal with these notified crises before?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2747	It is important to distinguish between intensive capacity in a normal situation and under a pandemic. When the pandemic came, the Solberg government strengthened its capacity in the short term. As I mentioned in my post, billions have been allocated to the hospitals. Internal training has been given to 3 100 employees, and the respirator capacity has been increased by 400 respirators. Then there is a need to strengthen capacity in the longer term and make it permanently better. This is precisely why our government has started important training courses for intensive nurses. I made a brief search through the budget positions in the health budget in the last few years, from 2013. Not once in the health budget settings has the Workers' Party mentioned intensive capacity before the pandemic was a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2754	As mentioned above, several media, health professionals, trade unions and professionals have reported that the intensive capacity of hospitals in the country is too poor. In the event of persistent infection in the population, politicians have a duty to repair hospitals in such a way that they can last for both pandemic patients and everyone else. Through the pandemic, the Stortinget, through a series of appeals, has asked the previous government to ensure that hospitals have sufficient resources to cope with the coronary apathy. It's been 21 months since March 2020. In the 19 first of these, we have had a government with the Right Party, the Left Party and the Christian Party. One feels that hospitals have little of our staff for preparedness and crisis situations. We are now in a situation where people work up to 16 hours a day and 70 hours a week. Does the representative think that the healthcare system has been well equipped to cope with crisis situations involving increased patient intrusion?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2761	The situation is incredibly demanding now, and as I also mentioned in my post, there are a lot of people working in health care, now incredibly tired. Unfortunately, this is not only true in hospitals, it is true everywhere — in medicine, in a regular doctor, in all the work carried out in terms of infection tracking and vaccination in the municipalities. We are asking our employees for a lot of Norwegian healthcare right now. In terms of hospital appropriations, they have been large under our government. So in addition, it's going to be $5.5 billion. kr related to the corona of hospitals. Of course, hospitals have the opportunity to prioritise this. At the same time, we have been concerned that they should have several respirators, that they should start the training of new intensive nurses, and that in the short term they should be as well prepared as they can to cope with the difficult situation they have faced.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2768	In the speech to the chairman of the committee, Mrs Trøen had a desire to hire more support staff to relieve nurses in the healthcare system. If there is one thing we know about ‘new public management’ and how health businesses and local health businesses have been – yes, what to say – administered in recent years, it is that it has been cut off from commercial employees and cut off for health professionals. Why does Troen think this is important now, and why was it not important to the Right a few months ago, when they had the Minister of Health, and why was it not included in the draft budget of the Solberg government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2776	Ensuring hospitals have been important to the Right throughout our government period, and the results have spoken for themselves. Now I know that the representative is not from the Workers' Party, but the Workers' Party promised before the 2013 elections that it would reach one million more patient treatments by 2017. Well, our appropriations and our organisation of hospitals contributed to the achievement of one million more patient treatments already in 2015. So the pandemic has shown us that it is incredibly demanding to have capacity that balances completely on the border, especially in terms of intensive capacity. The nurses’ association is clear that one of the short-term measures that can relieve the burden, but which can certainly also be a long-term measure, is that nurses receive more support staff.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2783	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2788	I would also like to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee for a hectic time. I look forward to a more ordinary budgetary process for next year. There are few things that mean as much as having good health. And there's a few things we're so concerned about that they around us are good and healthy. It's about life and death – serious – and it's very important, what we're doing. In situations where health care is needed, the community should be there. If the crisis strikes when one lives far away, the community must also be there. The professionals are our most important resource – in the medical office, in the medical department, in the hospital. Differences in society have increased. They've increased from our money book and where you live. The health differences are increasing, the social differences are increasing, and the economic differences are increasing. We need a new course, and fortunately the country has got it. The Workers' Party-Center Party government will, with strong initiatives, strengthen our public, common health services. They have to be accessible to everyone, wherever you live, and who you are. The time for underfunding our health services — with great eagerness after privatisation — is over. Eight years of bourgeois rule are over, and it's already noticed. A change in course has come. Despite a limited space of action, we have adjusted this budget: health services in municipalities and in hospitals, mental health, the fixed medical system and the strengthening of educational positions are priorities. It's also strengthening dental care; we've done that together with SV. We're still in a very demanding situation. The pandemic is like a magnifying glass of the problems that were already there by: the health care shortage in municipalities and hospitals. It takes time to turn this around after eight years of underfunding hospitals and municipalities, and these are things that need to be addressed. It's a notified crisis. The capacity has been pressed for a long time, and it's not like it's just because of the pandemic that you need to do something. We get an increasingly older population with more complex health challenges that are going to need more of this capacity even in time to come. We have to keep working to get what's in front of us, but at the same time we have to think bigger and longer – because things are connected; what's happening in the municipalities, and what's happening in the hospital. A reinforced specialist health service is a central part of a new course. Strengthening the basic funding of hospitals is important. That's how to strengthen the supply of drugs and psychiatry. This is how to strengthen intensive capacity and acuteness – those things that are not profitable but that are vital. In addition, in our supplementary communication, we have strengthened the commitment to mental health. Having outreach teams turns out to be incredibly useful for both adults and children. That is why we have put more money into the FACT team, including Fact Young. The fixed crisis is real, and it's becoming more and more noticeable. Too many people stand without a fixator. It's the doctor you meet first; it's the gateway to the rest of the health care system. It's important to do something about it, and we'll ensure that over time. But it is on our guard that the crisis is, and we must also address it. In terms of health care shortages in many professions, we're going to do a lot. We have to do a lot of things to be able to give the people the offer and the help they need. To mental health: we now go into a time that is to be filled with a lot of joy, cheers, Christmas trees, Christmas gifts and all that. But for many, this time is always difficult. In the time we're in now, with pandemics on top, it's going to be extra hard. Therefore, I am pleased that the government has announced that there will also be crisis measures in the health under the pandemic in which we are, and that we have started working on an escalation plan after eight years where the so-called golden rule could not be fulfilled. We need a power cap for mental health. And finally, when we go into Christmas, I want to thank the many who are now on guard. They need to know that we need to do everything we can – in the short and long term – to ensure that both new colleagues and a better working day and to provide people with what they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2809	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2814	It is a little difficult to understand what the Workers' Party really thinks about private health care actors. For the Right, it is absolutely essential that the public use the available capacity that private individuals have, because it relieves the public, it reduces the waiting time for patients, and it counteracts a two-part healthcare service – because if the private operators are to be there only for those who can pay for treatment, we get a two-part healthcare service. I noticed that in the budget setting, the Workers' Party says that they will continue to use private actors ‘when there is a real need for it and when the players are of high quality’. Has the representative Myrseth found that in recent years, when we see that waiting times have fallen, treatments have not been purchased that have been really needed, or that players have not given high quality?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2821	There is a difference between when the Workers' Party is in charge and when the Right is in charge. Ideological skyscrapers have been mentioned several times, and I know who I think they are. The Workers' Party and the Centre are concerned that they should be able to provide all good services. The public money is to be used for good offers to everyone. We wish, among other things: now away from free treatment choices. These include: that it turns out that there are greater differences. I think that when you come up with that kind of statement, that you increase the differences and the two-part division by not being allowed to use private to the same extent as Right-wing wants, I totally disagree with that. I think that the private is a good supplement if that's needed, but we first have to enable the public health service to perform the tasks you need. Not least when it comes to the training of health professionals, it is public that does that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2828	Now we are not supporting a verbal proposal here today, as the Labour Party suggests, that we should consider phasing out all private operators in welfare services. However, speaking of freedom of choice — even when you are older — it may be nice to be able to choose for yourself. I met Lillian at 84 years of age at her house in the Drammen a few months ago. She was so happy that the municipality of Drammen allowed her to choose who would come home to her. She had had municipal help. Then she had been allowed to choose and had tried another company that provided the same service. She was very pleased. It was Eve, home help, who came every time, and she had almost become a friend. Now the government and the Workers' Party will wind up the system that makes it easier and faster for municipalities to introduce free user choice. Does not the Workers' Party trust that Lillian can choose for himself, or that the municipalities can be allowed to introduce free user choice if they so wish?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2835	I think for everyone, whether you're young or old, the most important thing is what you get, and that the offer you get is high-quality. I am quite sure that I could have mentioned many by name who also work in the public service, which gives the same good offer that the representative now refers to. But the most important thing for us, for the Workers' Party and the Center Party in our government, is how we're going to spend the public money the best. Are we going to use all the money to actually make a good offer to everyone, or is anyone going to be more able to enrich it, instead of giving the offer that is? And when there are many who offer such offers, how are you going to be able to make savings? How are you going to be able to make a cheaper offer? Yeah, well, there's a lot of work going on. often in addition to the pension for those who work there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2840	Last year the Solberg government tried to increase the proportion of health care. Fortunately, that proposal was reversed by the Progress Party in the budget negotiations. For us, it was not appropriate to support a budget that in practice increases the tax you pay to be ill. On the Workers' Party's website they say that they would say 'no to the right-wing government's proposal which makes it more expensive to be ill'. But the Big Government is now following up and making sure that it is more expensive to be sick even next year. Is what is on the Labour Party's website wrong, or have you fooled the voters when you say that you shouldn't make it more expensive to be ill? Or is it that perhaps now – as the Workers' Party says – is the usual people's turn to pay extra for disease?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2845	Fortunately, this government has a comprehensive policy that will do something about the increased differences. It's about everything from taxes to other types of schemes. Then it is that we have taken over a budget after the government that the representative Hoksrud has previously supported for quite many years, and that has spent his reign increasing the differences in this country. That's not all you get to do in a few weeks. This is such a case. You have to make very strict priorities in the few weeks you have to make an additional proposition – the representative knows that very well. But we have great ambitions for the next few years, and I hope that I can also delight the representative Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2850	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2856	The Advent time that we are now in is the sacred waiting time. For those who know the Bible, this was the waiting time for the savior. But the advent time for us politicians is largely about budgetary work – in many ways a waiting time, in the reverse sense. It is a time for an active search and development of economic frameworks and basis for political governance. And no one is to blame for not asking for a strong belief in changing society for the better, and more people are making enough sense of one or more liberators from this pulpit. The Coronapandemic has given us challenges again. The mutated variant omicron, which was first known only a few weeks ago, now characterizes the reality and reality of the pandemic. Reality is a virus variant that provides an increase in infection pressure, an increase in the number of hospital admissions and the need for more vaccination in the population. All of these factors put a pre-pressed health care system in an extremely vulnerable and unsustainable situation. Over my two months as a major representative, I have had a number of meetings and dialogues with health professionals that describe the job and the situation they are in. It gives a strong impression to see crying laymen and nurses who are now aware of a dispensation that we in this room are responsible for. This is why measures and governance are urgent that can build up and not downgrade. The need to strengthen basic staff in both primary and specialist services is urgent. There is a urgent need to facilitate increased and improved interaction in the healthcare system. It is urgent to ensure good working conditions and take care of them. The need to secure skills and recruitment is urgent. The new government has given us a clear price change. The work on rigging public health services is now under way. Common Community solutions, which take care of all individuals, are the new formula. For the Central Party, I would particularly like to highlight the importance of the equivalent supply to everyone, regardless of each cage in the country. A life and a health have equal value no matter what postal code and place you have in the population register. Therefore, we are now strengthening the supply and reopening of this at Kristiansund Hospital. Twenty-five million. kr will go to the health care centre in ear-marked means to ensure a healthy and healthy supply of food in the North Sea and the Valley of Rome. A further 25 million. go to regional health care providers to facilitate more educational options for specialist nurses and midwives. This competence is vital to ensure good and safe health services throughout the country. Health professionals also receive a significant boost in operating habits, with a total of 700 million. In addition to the basic document, where 350 of these go to an increase in basic funding, which will facilitate increased capacity and treatment in mental health and drug treatment. At the same time, there is an important basis for increased maintenance and investment. On top of this, we are strengthening the municipal economy with a total of 4.5 billion. kr in free income. This will provide a framework for local government to target and increase efforts in lowthreshold and health care, health care for children and young people, and, in particular, care for the elderly. I can't help but get into the system today. This scheme is one of the pillars of health services and builds up in good interaction between patients and the specialist services. It is crucial to improve and strengthen the system, one of which, over the last few years, has cured the back and the problems have only increased and grown bigger and bigger. Therefore, the change in course is now coming, where one starts by allowing 100 million. kr for the support of ALIS agreements and, not least, for medical care schemes in smaller municipalities – the decision and the start of getting more people recruited, and the fact that several people will be in the scheme. Here the government will follow up with several measures in time. A strange wise man and a doctor said, ‘The State of Welfare is a state-of-the-art building. It can break. We must defend it against the self-party that will destroy the vi-society." It's at this crossroads we're now on, and we're really going to build a welfare state that builds rooms for everyone who needs support and help in their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2880	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2885	One of the most important initiatives of the Solberg government presented to the care of the elderly in its draft State budget in October was investment grants for several organised housing for older people in the district municipalities, known as security housing. The representative was in his intervention that things were urgent, and there is one thing that is urgent, is to facilitate just security housing also in the districts. Social security housing helps older people to become more self-reliant and to postpone the need for care services. Social security housing also helps to reduce solitude and keep up-to-date by creating common social meeting places. Thus, in the additional proposal for the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party, the investment grant for security housing in the district municipalities has been completely cut off. My question is whether the representative believes that it is good elderly and good district policy for the Center Party to cut funds to build more organized housing for older people in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2894	First of all, as a former spokesperson in a district municipality, I feel that the municipalities are working especially well with this challenge picture. When we now see the proportion of older people who have increased significantly and want to increase monthly in the future, it is clear that this has been and will be a priority task in many local governments in the future and too many spokespersons around the whole country. There is no doubt that we need to gather on schemes that raise the investment costs of the municipalities and build up under the funding schemes that are already in place. It will be important for the health of the services in Kommune-Noreg.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2899	In 2017, I visited Sønsterud's residence at Åsnes. Sønderud is a delightful and pleasant old - age home, and it is evident when you hear how happy the residents are. Unfortunately, the municipality of Centerpart-steered Åsne has now decided that they should cease their residence. The Progress Party, of course, voted against the proposal to put it down. For us, it is important to have a wide range of elderly people throughout the country. Does the Central Party believe that it is good health and district policy to set up a community in the districts – on which residents are delighted to live – especially in the context of the debate in the previous case, about all the money that came to the municipalities around this country, where the representatives of the Central Party stood and boasted of all the money to the municipalities? So this is a municipality that is run by the Center Party, and that says they don't have the money to continue this important offer for those who live there. This is the Christmas package from the Center Party to the residents of the community. So how can the Center Party go down when it's economics it's all about, so it's completely possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2906	I am here in the Chamber today to debate the state budget that we have now set the framework for and will chisel out political governance around. It is clear that what is important for just municipalities is to have adequate frameworks that can both finance well-being through, for example: new builds, rehabilitation and so on, and equally fully secure a satisfactory base crew. Then I must honestly just admit that I do not know the relationship locally attached to this community, but I am overconfident that the dialogues and rounds one has locally in the respective local government stand with dignity, and that one finds the good solutions in common with the local government. It's a good district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2913	Today, we are also discussing representative proposals to save the food department in Kristiansund. The Red Party and the Center Party, together with the Bunadsgeriljaen and others, have been united against centralisation, against the closure of local hospitals and for the Kristiansund Food Department. It is also mentioned in the Hurdal platform, and it created a lot of joy. I was among those who shared that joy. Today, when we promote the proposal that the Food Department should be maintained even after a new common hospital on the Heelt in Molde, the government parties, including the Central Party, are not involved in that proposal. If the proposal was not good enough, neither do the government parties promote their own proposals. Can the Central Party assure all that the Kristiansund Food Department will be maintained without a deadline for its closure?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2920	Now we treat, as I said, the framework for 2022. What is the basis both for the government and for the Central Party here in this room is that we now get in place and reopen the food supply in Kristiansund. In addition, it is also important in time — when it comes to both competence and overall defence capacity — to identify the space of opportunity that is for the North-Mear and Romesdal. Let's do the Red dialog at this point. It is important for us to ensure both competence and quality in the supply of food. That's what the government will start working on and see the whole-hearted part of it after 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2925	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2930	Today we are going to deal with the health budget. The decisions we are going to make tonight will have a major impact on the health and care services we deliver next year. It will be of great importance to those who are sick and need care and care throughout our country. I first want to thank all the great people who are on and on for the next two years that have gone since the pandemic came, and who will still be in the middle of it for a while. It means that we have to make sure that they can still do it in the future. The Progress Party therefore proposes that we give an extra paylift to health professionals, and that these should receive an extraordinary paylift of 3 pst. in addition to the normal pay-roll. There is no revolution, but at least it gives a signal that we appreciate the job they do every day. The Progress Party has put forward an alternative state budget, which means that in 2022 we propose to increase the budget by a little under 8.5 billion. kr. Yes, it's a lot of money, but it's about prioritizing what we're going to spend our money on. And if it's an area where it's going to be invested, it's here, because it's about quality of life and about making people healthy. I want to spend most of the rest of my contributions on those people who don't get the help and treatment they need to get a better life, because the majority in this room won't give priority to giving them proper treatment and help. It's actually about people, their everyday lives and their lives. For example, this is a case in point. on Cathrine, Ivar, Christian, Ellen and Lasse. I could mention several. Ivar and Cathrine have the disease ALS. It's a terrible disease that makes the muscles disappear, and it just goes wrong. Yeah, I'll call it one of the worst diseases you can get. Many of them with ALS that I'm talking to tell you about a desperate fight against a cruel disease on the one hand and a very rigid health care on the other. You can wonder if it wasn't enough that these were hit by ALS. Health Norway should not help make the situation worse for these people. For some it goes very fast, and they live only a few months, while for others it can take years. But everyone knows that time is short. They therefore want to put in place an offer for ALS disease. They have established an ALS house that is idyllically located on the Løten. Many ALS-sick people want to use it, but when you apply for it, the answer is from all municipalities: No, the municipality offers a sufficient offer. Yes, what is the offer – a sick home for a young person? That is not good enough, and that is why I hope that the majority will vote in favour of the proposal we are promoting today. You can imagine, was it someone you were happy with, or if you got ALS yourself: had you been satisfied with the offer from the public – a health home place? This is the proposal: ‘The government is asked to contribute funds from the revised national budget for 2022 to allow ALS patients in Norway to stay at the ALS-huset Rosenlund Park in Løten.’ For approx. two weeks ago I was with Christian to Denmark to hear how the Danish authorities approve new medicines coming. Christian has the disease of cystic fibrosis, a disease that causes his lung capacity to be greatly reduced, but there has come a medicine called Kaphtrio, which will make Christian and very many other people who have the same disease, would have a completely different life if they had received that medicine. In Denmark, all this medicine is given, but in Norway, the Decision Forum has said no to Norwegian patients because it is too expensive. Ellen is another patient who also has this disease. She has been refused because the decision-making forum believes the medicine is too expensive and the effect too small for it to outweigh the costs. This I understand is very provocative and despondent, because Christian and his family are ready, by launching a spree, to obtain medications for four months. The result is raw. He has a whole new life, but in a few months it may be over – or he may have to become a medical refugee to our neighbouring country Denmark because the Norwegian authorities will not give our citizens the absolutely necessary medicine that works, and give them a better life. It's not just about these. There are many more. Late last night I heard about Lasse, a 40-year-old father, with a son of 3 years, who also needs Kaphtrio to get a better life and be active in his son's activities. Finally, I would like to point out the importance of immediately increasing the intensive capacity of our hospitals in order to deal with the challenges we are facing. The Progress Party has proposed that we increase capacity by 50 places in 2022, and I had hoped that the Council of State, which only six months ago she wanted, had followed up what she said then, but unfortunately it is completely silent about it now. In addition to that, we need to make sure that we use the available capacity of the private hospitals, so that you can relieve hospitals and the tired ones that are there. We see that surgery on surgery is cancelled, and then it is crucial to see whether something can be done by private people to prevent hospital queues from continuing to increase in the future. I also want to raise the issue of care for the elderly. I record that both the right-wing government and the Workers' Party-Center Party government have chosen not to care that the state should be a partner they could trust, and now remove the attempt to provide state-funded care for the elderly. The Progress Party proposes 1 billion. NOK extra to the care of the elderly the following year because we think it takes more money into the service to provide an even better service, while we know that the pandemic has made many older people feel lonely and need more money. I would therefore like to deal with the proposals that the Progress Party has on its own or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2965	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2973	In the alternative budget of the Progress Party, a cut in the prevention of drug dependence and cut heroin-assisted treatment. These offers are addressed to those who do not pass through other treatment services. This is about dignity. In November we could read at the NRK about Roy Viggo, who said he would only have peace and quiet when he talked about how important this offer is. For me, it is very strange that the Progress Party does not want preventive action and does not want to implement projects that will give us more knowledge and a more dignified offer for people like Roy Viggo. Is it the case that the Progress Party will drop all test projects that can ensure dignity and a better life for people, or is it only for projects that target people who are struggling with intoxication?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2980	I think the representative from the Workers' Party should read in more detail what it actually says. We've proposed 1 billion. kr in the case of intoxication and psychiatry. We have proposed a multi-billion-dollar grant scheme precisely because we are committed to making sure that people who are struggling with intoxication and psychiatric disorders get help. I expect my colleague to talk more about psychiatry and drug problems later in his post, because this is something the Progress Party is concerned about. But it's interesting to listen to the Workers' Party. I record that the Workers' Party has hardly made any changes to the Health Budget in relation to what the previous government presented. There were buttons and gloss pictures, but when we discussed peculiarities, which the Workers' Party thought ordinary people would be allowed to pay, I see that they couldn't afford it, but they could afford a $400 million trade union deduction. kr. So it's possible if you want, but obviously it's okay that people have to pay more to be sick.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2987	Just after the investigation of the drug reform committee, a new twin study was launched, which shows that contact with the judiciary increases the chances of future criminal behaviour. It also appears that several of today’s police-based measures lack evidence of efficacy or even are counterproductive. We know that punishment increases social disparities and prevents young people from asking for help on drug problems. Nevertheless, the Progress Party will continue to penalise young people for drug use. Can the representative Hoksrud explain why, and is he willing to reconsider his position?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2992	The Progress Party is very strongly opposed to the position of the Advance Party in this matter. It's not about being out to punish people. Of course, if you have been a drug addict and addict for many years, there is no punishment to help, but I do believe that it is good for young people to prevent them from entering the drug scene and starting drugs. I think that makes sense. So there are very few people now in prison just because of drug problems. It's often because of completely different things you're in prison. We are concerned that we should ensure that we provide treatment, and one can be judged for treatment as well, which is important. But it doesn't just help to decide not to punish, and then you have to come to a meeting and sit and talk to someone. In fact, you have to get help and treatment, and there is little money from the Right in the draft state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e2999	The Party of Progress attaches particular importance to the pilot scheme with State-funded care for the elderly. It becomes clear that this system was the party alone in its long-standing government cooperation, since this has now been proposed by the Solberg government. In its alternative budget, the Progress Party also attaches particular importance to the continuation of this mechanism and the simultaneous expansion of the pilot project. Does the representative see that this will increase the distinction between health services in the country and not at least an enormous increase in costs? The evaluation reports from the pilot scheme provide clear feedback that the great impact is in the exchange of experience between municipalities and dialogue with health authorities. Why will the representative and the Progress Party pass on and extend the scheme at the cost of care for the elderly to the vast majority of the elderly in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3006	That's what's the difference between the Center Party and the Advance Party. This is because if you meet the criteria for getting a nursing home or for receiving care services, you have to get it independently of the municipality's economy. I think the representative should take a trip to some of the municipalities that are now losing the try, who have to shut down the experiment, and listen to what you say in the administration, in relatives, users, residents and not least employees who work there. Now they can provide the services the user needs, regardless of the municipality's economy. They actually get paid by the state if you meet the criteria. I think it's great. I've been around and met in more of these municipalities. The rapporteur of the centre party in Stjørdal is a great supporter and has made a lot of money in the care of the elderly. But it'll cost more. I think that's what's the Center Party and part of the reason for those parties. They know that if we are to give a worthy, warm and safe old age to everyone, it will cost more money, but one is not willing to make sure that money comes into place. It's the Progress Party. That is why we want state-funded care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3017	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3022	Today, we are discussing a budget submitted by the Solberg Government, with modifications of the Workers' Party-Center Party government in the supplementary proposal and with some historical improvements in the agreement with SV. This happens at the same time as the pandemic requires a lot of people and health workers. Differences continue to increase, and there is also an increase in health inequalities. Unfortunately, there is constant pressure on health services and the need for user competence is a system problem. The admission to New Public Management and the Health Business Model makes it difficult for ordinary people throughout the country and too many patient groups to get proper treatment at the right time. A prerequisite for equivalent healthcare is that we build a good public health system across the country, where there is no pressure and there is a constant need to balance, and where there is equal access and enough staff. This budget takes a step in the right direction after eight years with the Solberg government, which took the country in the wrong direction. We in SV are critical of how our health care system has been starving in recent years. Employees have been required to do more tasks without having received more colleagues, and they have had to run more. Several health professionals stop and cannot stay at work. There is a need to upgrade our health care system, and it is time we listened to employees in health care. In our alternative budget, we spend money on increased ground crews. It is time to solve the manning and load crisis. There is a need to create more educational positions and change the funding category for nursing students, and there is a need to look at the practice of double-turning for doctors educated in Denmark. Recently, I met an adult woman. She worked for many years in the groceries and told me that she spent some of her first wages fixing her teeth. When she was a child, she had no conscience to say that she wanted dental regulation, because it had overturned the family's finances. This woman then chose to wait until she grew up and could pay for it herself. Tooth health has been a disgraceful hole in the welfare state for a long time, where children from poor-advised families have had to be the ones who say no, I don't want dental regulation – instead of this being something public. There has been too much acceptance for teeth not to be treated on the same line as the rest of the body. I am pleased that the government and the Swedish Government in the agreement have agreed to start that work, both to improve their knowledge of the dental sector and to get the necessary legal changes in place and to achieve full dental reform. It is strictly necessary to start work on going through the Dental Services Act. In the older population, dental health is a major challenge. Even where the public dental service is responsible for conducting dental care, this is not always done. An extension of dental services to provide free dental check-ups for over 75 years of age was among the proposals in the Swedish alternative government budget. It is necessary to ensure that the rights of the elderly and others in home care and in the institution are met so that they are called, facilitated transport and outreach activities. With the budgetary unit with the government parties, 21 and 22 year-olds are entitled to public dental services with a discount. We're making money to strengthen public dentistry in the counties. We use money to strengthen organized dental care, and we strengthen the reimbursement system for children and young people so that they get orthopedics. It's time for children to stop paying the high price of their parents' finances.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3039	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3044	We see that there are considerable social differences in dental services in Norway. This is a description we in the Working Party and SV agree on. At the same time, we see that there are geographical differences. Areas in the districts of Norway have lower dental coverage than others. My question is therefore: does the representative agree that the two relationships are related – that we need to reduce both social and geographical differences in order to achieve the goal of dental care for all?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3050	This is a matter that we in SV are also concerned about. In cities and urban areas, overtreatment can be part of the problems in the dental sector, where dentists work to overwhelm each other, while in the districts one has to go far to be able to get to a dentist. Therefore, SV wants to have control of the establishment of dental offices and also strengthen public dental services, so that it is not the private market that determines whether dental services are available.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3055	SV writes on its web pages that the wallet should not determine access to welfare services. At the same time, SV will phase out private welfare, stop free treatment choices and stop billing for very common people who cannot afford to pay for treatment by private individuals. How does the representative Hussein think that such a system, where only those who can afford it can use private and buy out of a public health queue, does not make it the wallet that determines access to welfare services?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3062	During the Solberg administration, public hospitals and health institutions have had to cut their operating resources while the government has given even more of their share to private people, who can choose which patients and what types of operations pay off, while the public always have to stand up. We in SV want to spend public money on public services, so it is not your wallet that determines the type of treatment you receive. Already during the Solberg government, the treatment was done by private in the weather. It's a trend we want to turn around. We don't want Americanized states in our healthcare system. That is why we are taking the fight for public welfare and for the benefit of well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3069	In the Hurdal platform, the government is clear that professionals play a key role in health care. At the same time, we see that at the first challenge, which is to preserve Ullevål hospitals in Oslo and not to spend all the money on a giant project in Gaustad, go contrary to the very recommendations of the employees' organisations, the government hesitates, and abides by the established plans for the hospital area in Oslo, which was abolished by the government of Solberg. Does the representative from SV think that the government is good enough to stick to the intentions of the Hurdal platform, and how does SV think this should have been better solved?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3076	I'm a little unsure about what was the intentions of the Hurdal platform, but we don't think they were good enough to meet the need for healthcare for patients and employees in the Oslo region. We would like the government to listen more to the people of Oslo, where they want to preserve many of these institutions and preserve Ullevål hospitals. There are many reasons why SV did not go further in Hurdal along with this government, and the need to listen more to local democracy and employees in Oslo is one of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3083	Then the cord shift is finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3088	After many years of civil government, which has given rise to privatisation, increased market thinking in health services and increased disparities, a new government was in high demand. It also has to give a new direction. There are several good signals in the government platform, on dental health, a strong public health service across the country, on increased basic funding for hospitals, on mental health, on care for the elderly. This is important to ensure that Norway is not a country where the wallet determines whether you can feel confident about getting the help you need. We understand that the government cannot paint the whole of Health Norway red in its first state budget. Nevertheless, we must point out that the ambitions of the Hurdal platform have often failed to find the way to the number columns of the state budget. Red is disappointed that the Center Party has turned its back on all the voters who thought Ullevål hospitals would be safe in their hands, and that our proposal for a maternity ward in Kristiansund is not supported today. And those who thought we could finally start an ambitious dental reform that treats the teeth as part of the body, a reform that will ensure that everyone can finally get access to dental services you don't dare to look for today's fear of the bill, they've been eaten with crumbs. With this pace, we do not get a full dental reform. We are in the middle of a pandemic that has shown us that long-term health care is a risky exercise. The Health Business Model operates hospitals according to business-economy models. The 20-year learning experience of the health business model is weakened. We have seen that when the pressure on our services increases, there are no margins to take off. We've had to shut down, move people and rip out the ones we have. We have seen the consequences of health care shortages and of leaning on hired temporary workers from abroad to fill the gaps in the crew plans. Red has proposed more measures to ensure the stability and capacity of our healthcare system. The billions of hospitals today are outsourced to staffing agencies, we'd rather spend on increased basic staffing and on health care companies building up their own temporary work pools, so that we can ensure that there are some on the reserve bench. That's exactly what government parties were for last year, but today they'll vote against it. But the problems are still there. It's as important this year as it was last year. The funding of hospitals was too poor from the right-hand government. Therefore, it is good that the government increases the basic funding of hospitals, but they have to go beyond the 700 million. It might sound a lot, but it's not. Many of our hospitals are lagging behind in the purchase of medical technical equipment, and in many places they do not keep the standard. We see that the Nordlands Hospital is considering cancelling people in the middle of a health crisis because of red figures in the budget. With those millions, the government wants to facilitate increased investment, increased treatment in mental health, drug treatment, increased room for maintenance, etc., but let's be honest: so far this money does not reach. If hospitals are to be lifted after many years of business thinking, health personnel shortages, privatisation, ABE cut and now also a pandemic, more money is needed on the table. After eight years with the right side – yes, I am aware that there is a lot to clean up after that – we would rather deal with a budget that showed another way, much more clearly than it does. Because that's what it takes. There is a need for all those who need the health services in their municipality, the permanent care centre and the hospital. That's why I hope this is going to be the last state budget we're dealing with where health is becoming more expensive to people through increased self-interest, because that's not how we can do it. I hope it will be the last time we go into a health debate with strong warnings from nurses and health professionals about all that we lack in our healthcare system. I hope this is the last year when people have to fight for their local hospital and their maternity ward. We've got a new government. It's almost a new year. But now it is also time for a new direction to be taken in health policy. Because it's not good intentions – as we see in the Hurdal platform – that change the world or the health system, it's practical politics that do. And I hope that the government from now on will show the practical policy. With that, I'll take up Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3105	The representative Seher Aydar has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3112	Smular - no, it isn't. In three weeks we have managed to reverse a budget where we invest heavily in the community, and how we allow more money for those who need it the most. It's about glasses, it's about dental reform, it's about municipalities, it's about hospitals. In a couple of months, in the spring, we're going to start working on a new budget, the 2023 budget, and I want Red to be there, so we can get a lot of money. We're good on the road, and we'll be happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3117	Red is going to be first to work together for more well-being and cheer if the government delivers more well-being. It's absolutely right that those who want a dental reform, and those who need a dentist for free, just get crumbs. People over 21 years old, what do they get from the government in the budget conciliation on dental health? It's crumbs. People who are 30 years old, 40 years old, 50 years old, 60 years old, 70 years old, people who walk around with pain and a dental bill they can't pay, what do they get from the government? Actually, it's almost nothing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3122	It shouldn't be like that in this country that you should see the smile of what a family comes from. We're in good shape. Again: It's not about smular, we have to start somewhere. In the real world, we can't always do it all at once. So I want to go back to Red to see solutions and come up with the good compromises, and we're going to do this. This is a beginning.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3128	It is usually the case under a line that you have to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3133	Let me say it very clearly: of course, it's better with a government that will do something about dentistry and dental reform than a government that wouldn't do anything about it. It's a pleasure that we have a government that confirms that the teeth are to be treated as part of the body. What we're criticising is that it's done so little. I'm not saying that everything is going to happen in one day, there's actually no one who thinks it's possible either, but it's possible to do much more than the government does. For example, the government could: Taken some of the taxes that go to the richest in our society, and spent that money on more well-being, on a dental reform. It would actually be a change like the monnet. That's what I want the government to do. Red is very happy to discuss both dental reform and other welfare reforms with the government. We want to be involved in making that change, and I take that very much to myself, so I'm going to talk to the government about creating the necessary change for a dental form.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3142	The representative tries with ideological ideas about right-wing rule, privatisation, etc. I wonder if the representative has brought what is actually happening out there now. The challenge is that we are in a pandemic where public health services are struggling and need to reduce their treatment. That's the reality out there. Then the question is back to the representative: is it better that people are in line and not treated, than that you can get that treatment from the private, when it's the public that takes the entire bill? That's what this is about. I thought it was important for Red that people actually received treatment, that they should not stand in line and not receive treatment. That's what creates differences, and then it's the wallet that decides whether you get treatment or not. For the Advancement Party, it is important that people actually get treatment and help, not that they should leave someone in line and not get it. Then the state should set up and pay the bill. That is why we also want to increase the appropriations for the purchase from private companies to help bring down the queues.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3149	For Red, it is important that all funds allocated to welfare services in health go to health rather than private pockets. It's an important principle. The market trend, to which the business model I am criticising contributes, has caused us to weaken health preparedness. That is what is the consequence of eight years of right-wing rule, where the Progress Party has had both the Minister of Finance and other key roles, we have seen that health preparedness has been weakened. We don't have enough capacity in the hospitals. It has happened on their guard. It hasn't worked with privatisation, it hasn't worked with the health company model, and then it's time to actually change it, turn it around and make sure that all the money is allocated to well-being, to the hospitals, to the hospitals, to the municipal health service, actually goes to it, instead of some foreign buying-in funds enriching our taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3154	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3159	Once again, we are in a difficult time where we have to live with corona measures that affect everyday life and our personal freedom. For many of us it has been difficult to accept that once again we have to stay at home and be less social. Unfortunately, health workers in particular face a tough time. All those who wear the shoes, I'd like to thank you for the effort. The reason for the new measures is that we have a health service that has received or, if the infection continues to develop, will detonate its capacity. More than ever, we see the importance of having a health care that is rigged to deal with the pandemic we are now facing, and future health crises. In the government, the Left was with and reduced the waiting time in health services and addressed the fixed crisis. Left, Christian People's Party and Right provided a historically strong commitment to general medical services. There were absolutely necessary improvements from the level below the red-green. Despite the clear speech from the opposition in the previous period, I note that little has come from the government in that area. The firm profession has been a safe and attractive career path, and we need to make sure that it is also experienced as for young doctors in the years to come. During the pandemic, hospitals and intensive capacity have faced major challenges. We have been able to upgrade the temporary intensive capacity of the hospitals. Staff needs have been resolved in the event of overtime, extra shifts and redeployment of personnel. It has been noted that the efforts that health workers have made and still put down on behalf of all of us are quite impressive. Although we have had a record hospital budget, we still need to do more for health care. It is absolutely necessary that we equip intensive capacity and that we ensure that we have a health preparedness that is sustainable – even in future health crises. It is the hospitals in Oslo and Viken that have had the greatest stress with covid-19 patients admitted and patients who need intensive and respiratory treatment. Once I'm in charge of health care in Oslo, I have to say: The government's plans to tear Ullevål and build a giant hospital in Gaustad – and thus overrun the Oslo City Council – do not respond to the needs and population growth we expect in the years to come. I hope the government listens to local authorities and professional bodies on that issue. The way municipalities have thrown around and established vaccination stations and set several thousand doses a week is exemplary. However, we must be honest that we have some challenges in municipalities in terms of recruiting and maintaining the necessary health professionals. The perspective communication is ready for the arrival of the wave of older people, and the changing age composition strengthens the need to train more health workers. We need to take the necessary steps in continuing training and ensure that the health professions become the professions that you can stand for all your life. The workload needs to be reduced and the economic risk associated with health professions needs to be reduced. In addition, safe and exciting professional environments need to be created. These are areas that we have delivered to the government, and which I hope the new government will follow up, so that it will be as promised. The left will follow closely the situation in Health-Norway, and we expect solid results quickly. Otherwise, as we are not in the committee, we will also support loose proposal No. 15 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3176	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3181	I have great respect for the fact that the Left focuses on what is currently happening to the pandemic and all the demanding challenges they face. But when I read Left's care program, they're not adding names with so many words. Actually, they're not mentioned at all, but the Left is very busy with welfare technology. It's very important – I know that from my own profession – but welfare technology can never replace human warmth, human empathy and the care you get in contact with human beings. My question to the representative and to the left is: how important are they added to the care of the elderly for the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3186	Employees are the engine of health care and other types of work. I can briefly say why it's not mentioned so much in the left-hand program this time. In the past, maybe we had the longest program of all, up to 200 pages, so we grabbed and carded it down to 50 pages. Of course, that doesn't mean you're very detailed, but you're on an overall level. Health workers, nurses, carers or doctors for that part are incredibly important to get this together. There is no doubt that there are some challenges we are facing now. We have a demographic challenge in a lot of municipalities. No matter how much welfare technology we have, we will also need human and warm hands in care.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3191	The party to the representative has submitted a proposal for a representative to implement the drug reform. I'm very happy that the Left is willing to fight for those who have problems with drugs. The Central Party and the Labour Party have committed us to a preventive and treatment reform through the Government Declarations. Here we will, among other things: focus on both prevention, lowthreshold provision, multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment, aftercare, drug-assisted rehabilitation, distribution of changes in the law on use and possession, and review of practices in the event of loss of driver’s rights — and much more. This will be done closely with the user organisations and other stakeholder organisations. Will the parties behind the proposers engage in dialogue with the government party, so that people who have problems with alcohol will be met with help and treatment independently of each cage?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3196	There is no doubt that in the case of drugs, there are no geographic dividing lines — whether you live in a detachment of the country, as I signed it, or whether you live in central parts of the country, as here in Oslo. There is no doubt about our initiative and that we hope that the government parties will join in and get into a Russian policy that is in line with what the Left and the co-rapporteurs in Document 8 would like, because it would have been very good. Noise must be prevented. At the same time, one has to move on from constantly using punishment as a method. We have to prevent, because this is something we have to remedy. Then there is no basis for punishing, as the Workers' Party and the Centre have previously believed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3202	The representative comes from Trøndelag, where one of the municipalities in state-funded care for the elderly, Stjørdal. It is fantastic how the municipalities have managed to develop and develop their offer to care for the elderly and for care and care. I want to challenge the representative – because I think he can sign that it is very good in that municipality – on how he can then support putting it down and putting the municipality in a pinch one year before the time, because the trial should last another year. It would be interesting to hear how the left could be involved in this. I understand that they may not have wanted to do so, but this is about being a serious partner to the municipalities of the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3207	Yes, I come from that area, and the minister, sitting next to me, actually comes from that municipality. But I'm probably not the biggest supporter of state care for the elderly – I have to be allowed to say that. I have faith in local democracy. I believe that the municipalities can decide for themselves. I get in a good mood when I see the representative Hoksrud, because he always has such a good smile, but regardless of that, I think we have to go some rounds on how we rig our primary care. Is it certain that this should be the weightings in each municipal budget, even if it is the largest budget in the municipalities? Maybe we should take a look at how we're going to do it with basic personnel in primary care.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3212	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3217	The main line of today's policy no longer goes between red and blue, between those who want to increase taxes and lower privatisation somewhat, and those who want to lower taxes somewhat and increase privatisation somewhat. It goes, in the opinion of the Greens, between green and gray, and few places are clearer than in health policy. Today's grey health policy was introduced by the red government Stoltenberg and has been continued and developed under the blue government we have just had. What are the characteristics of grey health policy? It's concepts like New Public Management, it's health business model, it's business-economic principles, it's measure number management. It's the idea that you should be able to run a hospital in the same way as you do profit-based business, even if there are completely different underlying assumptions, and the idea that internal competition and other grips should make everyone run faster into eternity, that we can control it as a factory that can be optimised from top to bottom, that each employee is a tooth wheel that just needs to be lubricated more, and that patients are a piece of mediterranean that is going to get out into a Rema 1000 disk as quickly as possible. What is the green option for this grey health policy? Well, it's about realizing that health care is based on people helping people. It's about listening to the professionals, who are closer to the patient, not those who sit far away and control the spreadsheets. A green health policy is also about taking the big perspective. We have to realize that we are one humanity, we have to realize that we are one planet. If not the pandemic we're currently in, we've learned that our health depends on the health of people in completely different parts of the world, depends on the health of the ecosystems we depend on, and depends on the health of the other animals we live with, we really haven't learned anything. What does green health policy look like in practice? Well, we show that in our alternative state budget, where we reverse the ABE reform, we are looking for alternatives to the health business model. We will not, on the advice of the professionals, preserve Ullevål hospitals, spend all the money in the entire eastern region on a huge project on Gaustad with great financial uncertainty, which makes the capacity increase that is strictly necessary to achieve at Kalnes, at Aarhus and at the new Drammen hospital, which from day one will have too little capacity, will have huge cost challenges if we waste all the money in a large hole in Gaustad. In the alternative state budget of the Greens, we also provide for capacity expansion in the healthcare sector, especially intensive capacity. We're dealing with the nursing crisis, we're spending 500 million. To increase the staffing of hospitals, to train nurses, to strengthen the provision of maternity and food, and to provide better pay and working conditions, which are one of the most important things for recruiting nurses back to their posts. Let's get to grips with the fast-paced crisis. We want a stepping up to 2 billion. SEK in the increase in the basic grant to permanent residents, 500 million. kr to national ALIS scheme, just to stop the crisis we are in. We need a high level of mental health, especially early interventions and lowthreshold services. We in the Greens believe that just the grey way of thinking that what can be measured is what we need to improve is one of the things that makes mental health and chronic disorders systematically under-prioritised in our health care system over many years. We have in many ways one of the world's best health services, but year after year it is hollowed out by an old ideological way of thinking. We have a great potential for improvement. One example is that we have a treatment offer at DPS Østfold today, which is one of the most promising treatments to cure even treatment-resistant depression. It's been tested in the United States for many years. It is only exasperating that this offer is not available in all relevant hospitals and treatment institutions in the country, because it is more difficult to see someone struggling with the psyche than someone using a leg. It is easier to measure progression in bone fractures than in mental health. We in the Greens also want to set off 20 million. to research in a dedicated centre on just innovative treatments for mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3234	The aim of health policy must be the best possible health for as many as possible, and that assistance is available to those who need it. We're approaching two years of pandemic. We thought it was going to be a normal Christmas, but it turns out it won't. That's why I want to take the opportunity to encourage anyone who can, to vaccine. It's the best protection we have against serious illness, it's the simplest and most important way we as individuals can help the Norwegian health care system, and that's the best way we as individuals can help so that people don't get their operations postponed. The main resources in the healthcare system are the employees, and there are several who have said – qualified and competent staff who stand on and work around the clock to ensure good services and good treatment for those who need it at all times. I am glad that there has been a level of competence for 2020, and that was followed by a level of competence for 2025. There are many good measures in this area for both basic and continuing education. I hope that the Council of State will follow up the initiative that was launched in dialogue with the Norwegian Nursing Association, to reduce involuntary part-time and reduce sick leave. There are also many people who have said that the decision maker is important, and that's absolutely true. The decision is not just the gateway to the Norwegian health care system, it is the hub of very many families and individuals. Anesthesiologist, intensive doctor, internal surgeon, cardiologist and prescriber – they are the hub of the intensive care unit or of the establishment where you live. Each of them has had a total of 12,5–13 years of education – these peoples do not grow on trees. The intensive care units are the support beam of the intensive care unit. They must have three years of education, two years of practice and then take two years of education before they can become intensive nurses. The midwife must have three years of education, one year's practice and two years of further education before being a midwife. That's why I think it's okay in this room to say that the situation we're in is a shared responsibility – 12.5-13 years, or 6 years to become a specialised nurse. We need to think together now about what needs to be done to ensure further training, or to increase the training of physicians, for example. by using a training capacity that lies directly in front of us, at the University of Stavanger. If we're going to achieve our goals, we have to take action, and we have to do it now and train all kinds of staff if we're going to prevent the crisis we're now in. Everyone has a responsibility. It is also important to consider that more people get older. Being a part of the community is something we all need, even when we stop working or maybe get long-term sick. Here, volunteering does an incredibly important work. They operate, develop and create activities, meeting places, human meetings and belongings that have a crazy impact on the lives of the elderly. This importance is important for the mental health of the elderly, but also for community and social health, and not least for physical health. This community, of which we are not going to germinate, I hope that the new government will continue to facilitate – strong and significant offers under the control of volunteering and non-profit actors. Many more of us get dementia, many have a need to be part of the community. One of the most important things to maintain function and abilities once you have been diagnosed is actually to be allowed to participate in an activity and belong to a place. Daytime activities for dentures are important, but most importantly it is to be allowed to meet others and be part of the community. Finally, I would like to say how the Christian People's Party will vote, for there have been some suggestions from the Progress Party. We don't want to support any of them. As regards proposal No: 15, there's a sample that I mean is already working on. As regards proposal No: 16, we are concerned with the formal competence and real competence of the employees who are to work as temporary workers. As regards proposal No: 17, the Council of State can do this if the Council of State wants to, and use private actors just as much as she wants. And in the case of proposal No. 18, that's how we don't want to advance anything to the revised budget next year, but that's a good measure. We'll take it to the next year when we're going to review.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3253	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3258	The Christian People's Party and the Right's comments on the Health Budget say, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘By means of free choice of treatment, we ensure that we all have the option of choosing the offer that best suits the individual. [[...]] In the evaluation of free treatment choices, there are conclusions: ‘Freedom of choice is more accessible to patients with capacity to manoeuvre through the system.’ [[...]] How can the representative of Bollestad from the Christian People's Party defend a system that dissipates the most resource-powerful in society, at the same time as public hospitals are drained for hundreds of millions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3273	When a person is allowed to choose a treatment site himself, there is someone who has the capacity to find the free treatment option, but it is also true that for those who are unable to do so, an offer opens where they come from, because then the shorter waiting list becomes where they come from. This means that free treatment choices are actually about using the capacity that exists, and those that are freshest may need to travel a little longer in order for us to open up the capacity to those that are closest. This is about exploiting the resources we have, to bring down the waiting lists, and it's about patients getting ownership of the choice they're making, until the treatment they've agreed to. However, they must have been authorised to receive the treatment and then choose the treatment site.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3278	With the background of both the post of the representative and, not least, the fact that she is also a party leader for the Christian People's Party, my line and question to the representative is based on the statements and what is conveyed to the voters. For the Christian People's Party, I don't find any comments that support a marked new change in the course from the Christian People's Party. On the contrary, one goes on to pass on the priorities and bets that have been made in the last few years. So my question is, where does one find this change in course to the Christian People's Party, and isn't the representative happy with the course that the government has taken in the last few years, which she was also part of?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3283	Thank you for the question. I will put a question back to the representative in a few years' time about how it is to sit in cooperation and not get everything the way you want. It's also about the community I've been in, and I'm now going to vote on the basis of the budget we've jointly submitted. The Christian People's Party is concerned that in a few years there will be twice as many over 80 years and triple as many over 90 years. It will create a challenge not only for Municipality-Norway, but for Health-Norway. Most people are healthy, and healthier than before, but those who are sick are very sick. That means that if we're not going to get into the situation we're in now, with the fact that we've spent a very long time, because it takes 12-13 years to train a medical specialist and many years to train nurses, the Christian People's Party must be committed to facilitating this in the future. And be sure, President, I'll come back with good measures, which the government will have to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3290	The Reds want the public to solve most of the problems in society. The blues want profit-based business to solve most of the tasks in society. We in the Greens want non-profit and voluntary activities to have more space to do the major tasks of society. There is freedom, but also freedom from profit and profit. How does the representative of Bollestad see that the non-profit sector can contribute more in the health sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3296	I fully agree with the Greens that ideal actors should have an even greater place in the Norwegian health system. It was actually ideal actors who started hospitals, who started hospitals for mental health, who started drug treatment, and who started health wards. It was actually ideal actors, and then the public sector came afterwards, and the interaction that thinks the Christian People's Party should be bigger. In the case of ideal hospitals, we have two in this city, and we have a challenge that we have capacity problems. Had one exploited Lovisenberg and the Diakon home in a completely different way, with long-term agreements and secured reimbursement, one could use the capacity that is there, and one would even have had plots to develop and expand. But then they have to have long-term agreements with the public that ensure revenue, in order to operate it on behalf of the Norwegian State.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3303	Then the cord shift is finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3308	We are lucky in Norway who have good hospitals and professionals, and most people who get sick get proper treatment at the right time and in the right place. But it is also true that out of 5.4 million inhabitants in Norway, only 80,000 — and that is a figure given to us earlier by the former Minister of Health — have a longer route to local hospitals than the recommended response time. About 45,000 of these 80,000 live in Finnmark, and under 30 000 live in the Alta region. With Kristiansund, Helgeland, Aure, Halsa and Smøla, the number will probably also increase. Is it not time for these 80 000 – 100 000 ordinary people to be raised to the same level as the other 5,320 000 people living in Norway? On behalf of the Patient Focus, it is a bit nice to say that a very common woman from Finnmark, chosen by ordinary Finnmark people, is now involved in delivering the state budget position for 2022. I want to thank everyone who sits in the committee with me, who has given me many good advice along the way – I need that, because I am not a politician of profession. The patient focus of his mandate has been to take seriously the everyday lives of ordinary people, and my mandate from ordinary people is to remind all the parties here on the Storting that we must actually listen to what people are in, and not just say that we are doing it. The Health and Welfare Committee refers to the fact that the Patient and User Ombudsman is a low-threshold offer in all the counties of the country to provide an equivalent offer to all in Norway. The patient ombudsman performs an important societal task, and we are pleased that the Ombudsman has a high quality focus and has access for patients and relatives as the highest priority. On behalf of patients and relatives, we have reflected in the patient focus on why we have a maritime and aviation commission in Norway, while we do not have a similar commission when deviation leads to forecast loss or death in health and hospital services. I'm going to come back to that, but first I'm going to say something about the Sami language and the patient representative. Although Sami is an official language in Norway, the patient and user ombudsman need case handlers who speak Sami. In the autumn budget negotiations, we have not been able to allocate funds to the Patient and User Ombudsman, but in the revised national budget for spring, and in the state budget for 2023, we will challenge all the parties and invite them to provide funds for this important purpose. The caregiver is very important in matters relating to the replacement of patients in Norwegian hospitals and healthcare institutions, but what is requested by their dependants is a legal safety network that follows up deviations and errors made by healthcare companies. Patients are tired of meeting these challenges themselves — and often alone. Now I'm going to take an example, and that example might have been from other parts of Norway, but I'm choosing to refer to an example from Finnmark in a case we in Patient Focus know well. So it's about system criticism, not about criticism of health professionals, who break their legs. Kirsten Jonas from Alta died of mismedication at the Finnmark Hospital in Hammerfest in May 2019. The doctor who referred Jonas to Hammerfest sent Kirsten a letter saying that she is allergic to selexid antibiotics. Nevertheless, Kirsten Selexid was given intravenously. That mismedication is why Kirsten died was confirmed by a treating doctor at the Finnmark Hospital. Now it is the case that the family has been compensated for patient injury on the grounds that the treatment has failed and that the patient treatment has not been in line with good medical practice, after expert judgement. The wording of the replacement is very serious. In spite of this, the state attorney in Troms and Finnmark chose to settle the matter, because he did not find it proven that Hammerfest hospital had acted grossly negligently in connection with Kirsten's death after the mistreatment. The matter was appealed by the family, and it was decided that it should be resumed, and this time the matter was left in a disappointment with the police and blamed for its limitation. My question is: would the case be dismissed if we had a Health Commission? This Jonas case is not unique. In several articles this autumn, VG has shown several serious defects and deficiencies in Norwegian hospitals, so we believe that we need to put in place a Health Commission in line with the Maritime and Aviation Commission. That way, we can detect errors. We don't want to take any people for this, but we want it to be the right treatment both for the sick person, for the person who dies, and for their families.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3325	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3330	The climate and environmental crisis makes all sectors of society have to take part in the job. I would therefore like to challenge the representative, Mr Ojala, on what measures and principles can be introduced in the health sector to ensure that the health sector is also involved and helps relieve the climate and environmental crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3335	Thank you for the question, which is very good. We live in a time of great climate change. We heard that throughout the campaign. We also heard that it is the turn of ordinary people. We work to ensure that the hospital system we have is as climate friendly as possible, and that patients should not be sent around the counties, but always sent to the right treatment site at the right time. In this way, we save both enormously with kilometres of road transport and the round trip that is from, for example. UNN, University Hospital North Norway, to Hammerfest and then to Alta, or from Alta to Kirkenes, Hammerfest and then to Alta. We have to get rid of that. That way, we're going to have a positive climate effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3340	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3345	The government's changes to the budget show a clear direction in health policy. The government prioritises healthcare in municipalities and hospitals, mental health, the fixed medical system and the strengthening of educational positions for specialised nurses and midwives. The budget agreement also means strengthening dental services. It's the start of a new course after eight years of bourgeois rule, where we invest in the professionals in our common health care. Norway, like the rest of the world, is still in a situation where health care, public health and mental health needs to be cared for in a particularly good way, and we need to do what we can to relieve our professionals who have been on guard for a long time now. The pandemic has been extra demanding for children and young people. We have found room in the budget to strengthen the work aimed at children and young people with a further 50 million. kr. We're strengthening the fixed medical system by a total of 100 million. kr. Half go to an increase in the grant of ALIS agreements as a national scheme. The second half will be used to reduce medical vigilance manning challenges. In particular, there should be low-recruitment municipalities. Recruitment and training of health professionals are crucial for the quality and capacity of future healthcare. So we're proposing 25 million. kr to at least 30 new positions in the field of anaesthetic, paediatric, surgical, intensive and cancer care and for the training of midwives. The government proposes to increase hospital operating appropriations by a total of 700 million. NOK 2022 in addition to the proposal of the Solberg Government. 350 of these million will facilitate increased investment and treatment in mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. We've also suggested increasing the overall growth of activity by 350 million. kr. It will help to reduce waiting times and re-introduce delayed treatment due to the coronary apathy. Health Møre and Romesdal have long faced major challenges in ensuring adequate staffing at the Kristiansund maternity ward. We have proposed to allocate 25 million. kr to a package of measures to contribute to more stable manning and reopening of a local food supply in Kristiansund. We are still in a difficult situation with the handling of the corona pandemic into 2022. Because local and national health authorities need to be able to rapidly step up and down measures, the municipal sector, state administrators, hospitals and a number of state-owned establishments will also be costing up in 2022. As the Prime Minister said in his statement on the Korona situation on 30 November, we are following the economic development of hospitals, and we will propose increased appropriations if necessary. We have also established that the municipal sector will be compensated for the necessary additional costs and minor revenues resulting from the corona pandemic in 2022. Other enterprises will also be compensated for the costs arising from pandemic management. The government outsourced the training for health and care services through re-priorities. We cut into earmarked grants that have not been part of application-based grant schemes, we wind up trials that do not provide a research basis, and we cut or reverse schemes that are no longer necessary. We have limited time and space to adjust the budget for 2022. Therefore, it is important to signal a change in course by making clear priorities. Our government's commitment to health and care provides a way to improve health and well-being for all, to give professionals better time and space to take care of patients, and to help patients when they need it, across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3376	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3381	Representatives from the Workers' Party – also from the Centre Party – have, I believe, defined the hospital economy in recent years as being underfunded. Some have even used the word ‘starved’. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget last year, they added up to a billion more than the government's proposals. Then the total budget was 177 billion. kr. I understand, of course, that this year's government has had a bad time with regard to the extra proposition, but that's 700 million. NOK 332 million. kr of them are for basic funding in hospitals. The Council of State believes that such a small proportion of a budget of 182 billion. kr is a clear new direction in the hospital economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3389	I would like to further strengthen the hospital economy. Unfortunately, there will be no liquidity challenges, to use a professional economic expression, which is the challenge of hospitals for next year. The challenge will be that they are under pressure and will have to postpone treatment, with the challenges it poses for the hospital economy. We are prepared to compensate for this, as the previous government did in an extraordinary situation. So this government believes that the hospital economy should be strengthened beyond what is required. The Solberg government just got on that list with every budget, and we think it's too tight to deal with the big tasks that hospitals have to do with both educating our specialists, investing in equipment and technology, caring for the patients and getting the waiting hours down.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3396	That's not right, because the government of Solberg put up a higher activity growth than the demography was supposed to, in all its budgets. The councils said to the VG, in a very good interview, that she would not be a Korona minister. I understand that the Council of State does not decide what is going to be the title of VG interviews, but she has to be the Korona Minister anyway, because we are in a very difficult situation. What's urgent is to have the third dose set. I am pleased that the government has given pharmacies and the defense the opportunity to assist, but what about all the others – private occupational health services in large businesses and private clinics? In Denmark, I have seen 1 100 private clinics contribute. I understand that you can think that then someone will come in front of someone else, but isn't the most important thing now that as much as possible gets the third dose as quickly as possible, so that we don't get a higher disease burden?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3403	I'm glad to hear that the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen read the interview in the VG, not just the headline, because the interview said that I wanted to be a health minister. A health minister is in the situation – which was also my predecessor – that the world is in a pandemic. I think we'll do the best we can in common. What's important now is vaccines. Running out the third booster dose has been a high priority from this government since we made the decision to offer it to everyone over 65 years of age first. Afterwards, all over 18 years of age will receive the offer, in a sequence that is related to when they were given the second dose. Here are the professional assessments that are made about the interval that makes sense to hold. We reduced that from five months to four and a half months just a few days ago. Then it's important to say – and now it's time to run out for me – that the defense and others will contribute to the logistics and distribution of vaccines. The occupational health service is welcome as long as it goes through the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3412	It was a bit fun to hear the council pretend that there has been a lot of money for the care of the elderly around the municipalities. I would like to know where that money was. This year, among other things, of more than 300 million. kr to do something about solitude among the elderly, money that is not there in the budget for next year. In addition, we know that there are eight municipalities that say that there is a critical state in the provision of statutory services in the care sector. We have also seen that there has been a sharp increase in the number of new municipalities that are concerned about whether they are able to deliver the services they need. And the municipalities say they don't get compensated by the state council, even though the state council said from the pulpit that this should be compensated. When does it get the compensation? Municipalities are uncertain whether they get money to provide safe and good elderly care services to their citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3417	This government has strengthened the municipal framework by 2.5 billion. kr more than was the case in the Municipal Proposition of the Progress Party to ensure that it became a majority in June of this year. It's money that's sorely intruded. I'm also worried about the local authorities' ability to handle the change in demographics we get in the years that are coming. We should be better rusted for it. We should have had bigger municipal budgets and trained several specialists to handle several multi-sick elderly people in the municipalities. It's going to have a high priority in this government. When it comes to compensation for municipal pandemic expenditure, it's given as a system where we pass on a group, where KS is represented, to look at those costs. Here the municipalities have already been compensated for expenses from earlier this year, and they will also receive them in 2022. This may be planned by the local authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3426	2.5 B.C.E. kr to the local government sector is the money they can spend to a large extent for what they want. It's something that's ear-marked, but it's definitely not care for the elderly. At the same time, the Council of State has followed the previous government, which cut over 300 million. SEK to the municipalities that have financed the care of the elderly, which has not been recovered. This is money that has gone away. The council now says that the municipalities will be compensated, but only in my home district, Vestfold and Telemark, I hear rumors that the municipalities are missing over 100 million. kr to deal with the pandemic challenges. I do not feel that it is compensated, and then I will challenge the Council of State: Will they be compensated for this money? It doesn't keep saying that you're just going to talk to KS. You have to talk to those who wear the shoes, the municipalities. Do the municipalities receive compensation for all these costs, or do they risk not being able to provide the services to their citizens for which they are legally entitled and the services that the municipalities will provide according to the needs of the individual?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3435	The municipalities have both increased free frameworks of 2.5 billion. kr and they are compensated for all the costs related to the pandemic. The group that assesses it is a more technical group. It is simply to get good representation from the municipalities, so that the state does not sit and assess the costs the municipalities have incurred, but that they are involved in clarifying what that reality looks like. As far as the experiment with state-funded care for the elderly is concerned, it was terminated. I have heard the representative Hoksrud in several posts here mention my municipality of residence, but I want to correct the impression that the municipality of Stjørdal is unable to provide good care for the elderly to its inhabitants. They are. Governments have also been invited to lay the foundation stone of a new care centre, so there I have great faith in local authorities and their ability to prioritize their elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3442	The Health Directorate has established a national register in which health professionals can register. This is a register for health professionals who are not in health care and work there. In the podcast Health I could recently hear Nakstad and the head of department. Forförförst tell me that the register has registered between 6000 and 10,000 health workers. These include nurses, caregivers, intensive nurses and physiotherapists. Recently we could also read about Karoline Roevig, who is a nurse and immediately completed intensive care. She has thanked herself and is not going to work anymore as an intensive nurse because the stress was too great. My question to the Council of State is: Why has the government not used these tens of thousands of health workers, so that they can move out and help municipalities and hospitals relieve health professionals who have worked double and triple guards under this pandemic? 20 years of pandemic also affects health workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3451	I hope we don't get 20 years of pandemic, I don't think the representative meant that. But 20 months of pandemics take on our professionals, and it's a top priority for this government to train, recruit and keep health professionals. The last one is very important. We often get high on statistics in the OECD, etc. because we train especially nurses to a large extent. One of the challenges we see is that the job gets too tough, or they're too attractive in other industries to be in the service. Here we talk to the Nurses' Association, the Trade Union and those with their shoes, in order to be able to get them back. A priority for this government is to give professionals time and space to do their job and get time with the patient. Right now it's very difficult because we're in an exceptional situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3458	Right now we are in an exceptional situation, and therefore it is so important that we get back those who have registered and who want to contribute. To me – as I read the picture now – it seems that it is the organisation it lacks. It was to be said that it was 20 months of pandemic. It works out; we see it on sick leave, and we see it on the number that tells us that they end. We've seen it at St. Olav's hospital, where we're told that every day there's a thousand shifts that are available and that you have to cover. Right now we have a pandemic, and right now we need more health professionals. What will the Council of State do to bring this health care professional in where they are needed in the health care system?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3467	Solving the challenges from day to day makes our healthcare every day. In the last 20 months it has been very demanding. There is extensive cooperation between local trustees and local management to find the solutions. But I want to warn you a little bit about the presentation by the representative Hussein here. It is not the case that the persons in the register are on a reserve bench ready to enter the service. They are in other professions in other industries. What we have to do in the future is that our health care does not have a work pressure that makes you look after other work and disappear from the service. There's a bunch of things we're going to do. It's already reflected in the budget, and it's about keeping the professionals we're actually training. It's also about educating more of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3477	The Council of State referred to recruitment both in its posts and now in the exchange of replies and further pointed out more resources for educational positions, which are important and absolutely necessary. My question really concerns all those who are trained nurses, e.g., who are not working in health care now. This is about both pay and workload. This is something that the Minister of Health was concerned about even when she was a great representative herself, and she is well aware of the challenge. It is quite challenging to ask someone to come back to a workplace where they are overworked and underpaid. My question is: I register the wish, but what kind of concrete action is the government going to take to make those who are already trained nurses want to come back to their profession? And can the Council of States specify whether there is a realistic thing to do in the short term?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3482	In the short term, we strengthen the number of recruitment positions, as the representative said. We also work continuously with better task sharing, support functions. In the longer term, we're going to set up a Health Care Commission that's just going to look at what professionals we need in the future, and how they're going to deal best with the ministry, so that the subject you've been learning will be applied for the benefit of the patient and the service. We have expectations of that, but it's a longer-term work. I want to stress that every single day, in all parts of our common healthcare service, local trustees and leaders work to solve day-to-day challenges. We want through something more liberal budgets to give them more breathing space for that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3487	First, I want to congratulate the Council of State on the first budget. I think that's good. I also think that is good, what the Council of State is proposing that she wants to make increases in educational positions in several areas. But as I said in my post, when we know that just to become a regular/general practitioner, it's about 12-13 years old, to be one of the basic doctors in an intensive care unit, it's also 12-13 years old, and to become a specialist nurse, it's seven years old, three plus two plus two, it's a long canvas to bleach. Then I also get that the Council of State says it is important to preserve those who are, and I fully agree with the Council of State in that – both win and keep. But what I am concerned about – and that has been said many times by the Council of State – is that we should save the permanent medical system. I agree. But in what way does she intend to create time and space? For a created time and space, it's not just about money, it's also about more people, and it takes time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3494	We have to make sure of the fixed medical system. The alternative cost there, I think, is much higher. If the fixed medical system gets down, the challenges are likely to reproduce very quickly into the hospitals, at both higher costs and higher costs for the individual patient. What we have to do is probably more things, but what it's essentially about are more regulars with fewer patients, so that you get better time for the problems. There we believe that the decision-makers also need to be burdened off in terms of the tasks associated with a firmness policy. We see that some younger doctors also want regular employment. The ALIS scheme offers it at least while you go and specialise, and you can postpone the decision as to whether you want to be your own manager, or if you want to have a permanent job in the municipality. A number of measures need to be taken for a sustainable future fixed medical system.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3499	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3504	This government has great ambitions for healthcare in Norway. We're going to have a strong public health service run by the community and funded by the tax bill. A good public health service is an important contributor to reducing social and geographical differences. We're on it. In the Hurdal platform, we have made it clear that this government wants a gradual expansion of the public dental service. Our goal is to equalise dental care with the other health services. This is followed up in the budget proposal today with fully targeted reinforcements of public dental services. We strengthen arrangements for people with major challenges, such as trauma and dental frights, by 60 million. kr. We strengthen the reimbursement system for children and young people who receive dental regulation, by 50 million. kr. We're strengthening the public dentistry in the counties by 100 million. kr. And we secure 50 pst. Discount for 21- and 22-year-olds. This budget is a priority of those who need it the most. We know that over the last few years it has built up long queues in the TOO system. Many of them with the greatest challenges have to wait even longer because there is not enough money. This reinforcement helps more people get help, fewer people wait, and more people get healthy dental health. This budget ensures that we prevent, with a targeted focus on 21- and 22-year-olds. With 50 pst. The discount on dental treatment will result in more young people continuing to visit a dentist after they have reached the age of 21. These are persons who are among those who visit the dentist at least and it is reasonable to assume that, among other things. tight student economy affects this. This is a sensible priority because it prevents poor dental health, and with the aim of expanding dental care, it is central in this that we carry out a prevention that is so good that the total costs are lower. It's not necessarily that people are getting better at preventing even because dentistry is becoming expensive in the future. They must have an offer that is good enough for them to be able to prevent in stages of life. This makes sense for both people and society. This budget ensures a strengthening of the public dental service provided by county municipalities. They provide the rights of those who have free or discounted dental services. It is important that county councils have the resources to provide those entitled to free public dental care with a proper and good offer, and it is important that they have the resources to carry out preventive work for good dental health. We'll look forward. This budget is a start, and we are doing some very basic measures to reverse the trend. We're going to do a job to form a basis for achieving the goal of equalising dental services. Therefore, we need to investigate the status of dental services in Norway. We're going to look at social and geographical differences in use and access, and we're going to look at the reasons for the differences and the relationship between private and public supply. This investigation will provide us with valuable knowledge, which will form the basis of the plan that must be underpinned, because we know that rigging a good offer involves many factors – from manning to pricing and everything between them. We make clear and clear priorities for mental health and drug use. Let's take 700 million. It is clear that mental health and drug abuse should be given priority because we know that there is a need to strengthen the supply of these groups. If we are to succeed, we must ensure that hospitals have sufficient funding. This is in line with our plans in the Hurdal platform. We're going to launch an escalating plan for mental health and alcohol. We have to work better, we have to prevent more, and we have to treat as best we can. Those with mental health challenges will get help when they need it. And if you're struggling with alcohol, you're going to get health care and not punishment. I'm proud that we're doing this, and we have more in store. This budget proposal shows the way, and it shows the first steps of the plan that lie in the Hurdal platform. We need to strengthen public health. We need to strengthen dental health. And we're going to improve the supply of mental health and alcohol. We're going to build on a strong public health system, because we know that it helps balance social and geographical differences – and that's what we need now, that's exactly what it is. That's when we stand together and give each other help, we succeed. And it's the community that solves the problems the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3523	When society is shut down, hamsters are put in place and people are permitted, there are some vulnerable groups that are facing a different and difficult Christmas. Children and young people living in families affected by economic turmoil, intoxication and mental illness have the most difficult time in the future – those who have the least opportunity to take care of themselves and who also do not have a good, protective network. When you talk about mental health, sometimes you talk about resistance or resilience. It may sound a bit advanced, but what it really means is to keep a good mental health and to adapt when life faces challenges and hardships. But for children, it has to be the resistance and the help to be fine when the world is biting against, being with parents, family and networks. Under this pandemic, where many have had their ability to adapt, there are some children who have been injured by the same people who were to look after them, because the consequences of the pandemic have made things worse for their caregivers. There's something to think about when many parents now want closed schools and kindergartens before Christmas. Some children are more dependent on school, kindergarten and access to adult people other than those at home during the Christmas holidays, and it is good that this government has continued the Solberg government's goal of protecting children and young people as far as possible. It is not particularly wise to set up groups against each other, because everyone understands that business needs to be compensated, and that there is a need to get action in place on short notice when you are told about tipping and numbering restrictions – that we need to do what we can to save businesses and livelihoods. Nor does it affect people’s mental health and quality of life. But in addition, we have to take care of the vulnerable groups that wear more when things are shut down, and it cannot wait until January. The budgets of the Solberg government have taken exactly those considerations, but when we have to close down again, it is important to look at what worked last, and what has not worked. Low-threshold services in municipalities for those struggling with mental distress and intoxication must be easily accessible through increased staffing, extended opening hours, prevention measures and simply to seek out those who are most struggling — just as the Solberg government has provided money. Help phones were given the opportunity to get away as there were several people who contacted me and needed help. The font houses got extra money to offer to young people with mental distress when everything else shut down. A lot of good work has been done this year, not least by volunteering, which represents a difficult resource that quickly turned around and that has helped many. Last year, the number of overdoses was the highest in 20 years. We don't have the figures of the year yet, but in a country with a good public health service, with small differences and with a high standard of living, 324 people lost their lives of overdose in 2020. Some reason is that people were written out of treatment for closed offers in the municipalities. One day this is going to go over, so in the future we have to make sure that people get adapted, quick and good help if they're struggling mentally. If the treatment you receive does not work, you should be changed quite quickly. It has to be easy to get help, and it has to be easy to know where to go to get that help. Volunteers and municipalities have to work together, and we have to help people become a little more resilient and adapt when life gets tough. So I would say it's very good that more attempts are being made to improve the quality of life for addicts. Heroin-assisted treatment trials are initiated in addition to testing other drugs in the LAR. The plan from the Solberg government was that 2022 would be the first full year of responsibility for people who were taken for drug use to be moved from justice to health. It is good that the Støre government has not removed funds to prepare the municipalities to escalate health care for drug addicts in 2022, but the promises to escalate help in the field of drugs and mental health do not help much as it could if the Workers' Party and the Centre had joined in on a drug reform that goes away from punishing people for drug use. It maintains the stigma against people who initially don't have it that easily, it means that we still have a criminal policy that is socially outrageous, and it means that we're still in a situation where people don't dare ask for help when they need it. For Christmas, I want a majority for the drug reform in 2022. It's not too late to turn around.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3544	The National Audit Office published a report on mental health services before the summer. He's on time for treatment in the Control and Constitutional Committee. The report is a comprehensive overall assessment showing that the supply is not good enough. The summary is that mental health protection is not a priority in line with policy objectives, and there is a lack of knowledge about what treatment actually gives effect. Where knowledge of power exists, it will not be used. The way you have managed to follow up on quality has not captured these weaknesses. The national audit concluded with eight points: The first point is that the population receives more treatment for mental distress and suffering in some health regions than in others. The second is that many people with mental disorders don't get help when they need it. The third issue is that young people with concomitant mental and drug problems are not receiving adequate treatment. Almost 20 pst. Of the municipalities, there is a lack of provision for young people with drug problems, and about 30 pst. Among outpatients in the field of mental health protection for children and young people, young people under the age of 18 are not treated with concomitant mental and drug problems. And if they do, they get a lot of treatments that are calculated on adults, or not treatment aimed at addiction at the whole. The fourth point is that the golden rule, which means that mental health and drug treatment should be given priority over somatic – physical – health services, is not fulfilled. This can mainly be explained by the fact that mental health protection is a priority during the financial year in favour of somatic products. The fifth point is that the work on increasing and using the knowledge about the treatment of mental distress and suffering is not good enough. Research is incomplete, and there is a lack of knowledge about the effectiveness of treatment. The sixth point is that many municipalities and outpatient clinics in mental health protection do not ensure adequate user involvement and related involvement. The seventh point is that many leaders don't make sure that quality improvement is systematically worked. The majority of outpatient leaders believe that health professionals place high emphasis on waiting time and on ignition requirements in the management rather than on the effect of the treatment given. The last point is that the government tools to contribute to the quality of services can be used in a better way. The national quality indicators, i.e. how to measure quality, do not provide information on the extent to which treatment actually works. The criticism from the Riksrevision is serious. In order to produce something, the report shows that there are major differences in our society. How long it takes for people who are potentially seriously suffering from mental illness to receive help, depending on the country they live in, a cage. In many municipalities, young people with concomitant mental and drug problems do not have a good enough treatment supply, or they are completely absent. Many outpatients in mental health protection do not have the framework necessary for treatment providers to provide good treatment to young people with concomitant mental and drug problems. The public debate on mental health has been major in recent years, and for many it was the most important thing in this year's elections. One of the reasons for this is that many people experience that the reduction of specialised services and the transfer of responsibility to municipalities has gone too far. The number of entries has increased while the system time has been down. Many end up as turning door spaces and meeting several different handlers in a fragmented system. It affects the sickest, and it makes people with mild suffering sicker. Being rejected by those who are going to help us can also make us sicker. The challenges are complex and complex. This includes, inter alia: the backstop of last year’s drug reform, which was without measures to escalate treatment supply or fresh resources, and the basis was before the pandemic came. As a result of the pandemic, we need a special effort for the mental health of children and young people. The Workers' Party-Center Party-Government will straighten out in unworthy circumstances, and we are strengthening the work aimed at children and young people with an additional 50 million. kr. Compared to 2021, 55.5 million is proposed. for setting up and evaluating the FACT young teams, multidisciplinary and outreach teams targeting children and young people with long-standing, complex needs. In total, we propose an increase of 250 million. Dr to work on the mental health of children and young people in 2022. In addition, the government is proposing an increase of 40 million. kr to the ACT and FACT teams for adults. The government wants to increase the rights of municipalities and county councils and to increase the basic funding of hospitals in order to facilitate more treatment in the field of mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. The Workers' Party-Center Party administration will straighten out in unworthy conditions, and this is just the start. We have committed ourselves to a stepping-up plan for mental health and drug care. I look forward to this work, so that we can correct the criticism the Riksrevision had against the previous government. It will provide worthy and professionally defended health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3584	The Labour Party and the Centre Party, together with SV, have submitted a State budget setting the framework for citizens to experience that their lives and interests are high on the agenda. Strong communities, high trust and small differences are important, also linked to individual health. Contributing to the community through work is important for both physical and mental health. This budget therefore contributes to the contribution of the inhabitants to the community. People's challenges are being met by this budget. Large differences should be built up. You can only mention: more for hospitals, more for permanent staff and more for competence and recruitment for, among others. specialist nurses and not least dental practitioners. The economic policy of the government leads to a fairer distribution and a fair direction, a strong welfare state and good services completely independent of the wallet of people and each they live. Ensuring a strong public health service that provides good services, freedom of choice and right of consultation to all citizens – wherever they live, regardless of their social and economic background. Privatisation reforms as free treatment options will only benefit some. Older people live longer and longer. We get healthier, and we stay in better shape. For the government, it is important that the elderly have good, safe and adapted housing. This strengthens the government's local economy and allows it to invest in organised housing with different welfare technologies that provide security for the individual. It is important for the government that everyone knows about security in their housing, not just about a cage in a single or selected municipality. Of course, welfare technology should not replace qualified staff, but should complement and provide security in everyday life. For this reason, the government will ensure that older people get a job in their own homes for as long as they can, with the help of home services organised on a regular team, which are run by quality goals and not stopwatches. This gives good care, help and organisation to the elderly, and it gives confidence to the elderly. In order to ensure adequate qualified health professionals, including: The government will set up a Health Personnel Commission. Training, recruiting and retaining health professionals are too many small municipalities, such as: Wind farm, a challenge. At a time when health professionals are scarce, the status of and interest in the field of geriatry must also be increased. Special knowledge of the health challenges of the elderly is very important, and the government will increase the multidisciplinary nature of care for the elderly and strengthen the content of services. The government takes these challenges seriously, and of course it is the whole set of options to be the default. The fact that we're getting older also makes more elderly people get the diagnosis of dementia, so a more dementia-friendly society is decisive. Everyone has the right to feel included and equivalent and to be met with understanding. The Life Life Reform has five areas of action: an age-friendly Norway, activity and community, food and meal, health care and related services. All of this contributes to a safer and better everyday life for our elderly. For the government, prevention of health promotion activities shall take place in all areas of society. We have to remember that health is created outside the hospital corridors, where people live, cage and work. Therefore, better public health measures are so important, and once again: good municipal economy also makes this possible. There's a red thread going through the Hurdal platform and into the budget. Balancing economic and social differences is important to promote the Norwegian people's well-being. The social health differences in Norway have increased. It is dramatic that what education you have, what income you have, and what job you have, can be decisive for how long you should live, and with what disease and suffering. Creating a strategy to smooth out social health inequalities and fight against loneliness will mean too many. The voluntary sector and sport are important contributors here. Family and volunteers make an indispensable effort in the health and care sector. This budget is a security network. This budget is for everyone, who is, each cage, and what the wallet contains. This budget secures similar services throughout the country, e.g. services near people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3609	In government, the right has spent eight years delivering government budgets that have focused on better care for the elderly. We have provided grants for the construction and modernisation of some 20 000 lucky day care facilities in nursing homes and homes, almost twice as many as last time we had a red-green government. We have given older people more power to decide over their own everyday lives by introducing free treatment choices, free choice of use and guarantee of cohabitation, so that older people can grow old together. We have implemented a proper level of competence, so that over 146 000 health care staff have received basic, continuing and continuing training in the last four years, and we have presented the quality reform Life throughout their lives, which addresses the most basic things that are likely to fail when we talk about care for the elderly, such as food, activity, community, quality of health care and the coherence of services. Although the Right has done a lot in the care of the elderly in the last eight years, and we have provided a government budget that puts action behind words, it is still a way to go to Norway to create an even better care for the elderly, because we see numbers and hear stories about older people in nursing homes that are undernourished or are in danger of becoming it. We see that municipalities are struggling to recruit enough health professionals, we see that loneliness among older people is increasing, and we see that many older people are struggling to get involved in a rapidly evolving society, especially in the field of digitalisation. A few weeks ago, I was visiting the municipality of Kinn, which last year won the Life Prize for its work of creating a better care for the elderly and following up the Life-Reform. It was a nice visit. Among other things, I received I don't think those who heard me sing were so very impressed, but at least I was very impressed by the job they've done to follow up on the Life-Reform. Due to the grant schemes set up by the Right in the State Budget to follow up the Life-Reform, they have been able to hire their own social coordinator to facilitate more prevention, more activity and more volunteering in the care of the elderly. It has given older people more and better quality of life. Right will learn from those who succeed in giving older people a safe, active and worthy old age. We know that we are getting older in Norway in the years to come. At that time, we need to ensure high-quality care for the elderly and prepare the healthcare system to do just that. We need to train more competent health professionals and make it more attractive to work in the care of the elderly. Therefore, the level of competence that has been achieved by the Right is important. We need to make better arrangements for older people to live at home for as long as possible, by building more organised dwellings. Therefore, the investment grant for security housing in the State budget is important. We have to give older people confidence and power to control their own lives, and we have to follow the quality reform Live our whole lives so that we learn from each other. We need to create a more age-friendly society, where older people are recognised as valuable contributors to society. That is why I am proud that it is Right in Government that has put in place Norway’s first senior ombudsman and the centre of an age-friendly Norway. I know I'm worried about how little we've heard about what the new government with the Workers' Party and the Centre wants with the care of the elderly in Norway. The only thing I've seen so far is that they're going to reverse the old-age policy initiated by the Right, and that they're not going to follow up important bets. In the additionalproposal for the State budget, they cut the investment grant for several organised housing for older people in the districts. It's sad. Several organised dwellings allow more people to live at home longer, which exposes the need for care services and reduces solitude in setting up joint meeting places. They also cut the approval model and the reward scheme for free choice of user in municipalities, so that older people have less power to decide in their own everyday life. They have now also entered into a budgetary settlement with SV to expel private actors from the healthcare service. The quality reform Life throughout life is also not mentioned with a single word in the government statement to the Workers' Party and the Centre, despite the fact that the municipalities are doing well in implementing the reform, as we see in the municipality of Kinn, which I talked about earlier. The right in government has invested in care for the elderly, and we will continue to work to create better care for the elderly – because it is good to get old in Norway, and because we want to provide older people with a safe, active and dignified old age that is tailored to the individual’s needs. We've been doing that for eight years, and we're going to continue to do that in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3628	Our common public health service should be available to everyone, no matter where you live, and no matter how thick a wallet you have. If we are to succeed, we need a clear policy – a clear policy with the will to use taxpayers' money for the benefit of society. This means increasing budgets for hospitals, for municipalities and for decision-makers. It means spending on mental health, dental health and food supply, and it means a health care service where private operators cannot extract money from the system without public control. The basics of the Norwegian health care system are fixed doctors, a doctor who follows you and the family over time – perhaps generations – who knows what you need, and what happens to the people around you; a medical service that saves hospitals too many visits and sees when you are struggling, and who takes away most of the patient treatments here to land for a fraction of the health budget. The decision-makers are equally important whether you live in Larvik or in Lakselv. But now it shakes in the ground. More and more people have lost their decision because the doctor has left the pension or simply thrown in the towel because of an excessive working day. We politicians have to take this seriously, and we need a long-term commitment to the permanent scheme. That effort is making the new government, both in the short term and in the long term. More money for the doctors and a doctor's grant scheme is a start, and we are fully aware that that is not enough. That is why we need to put in place both economics and working conditions that allow more people to choose to become fixed doctors and to be in the job over time. That's where we're going to make a difference. It is important for patients, but not least it is important to ensure that the burden does not become too high on the rest of the healthcare system. However, when decision-makers cannot assist because the disease picture is too complex, a specialist health service is needed that accepts you. Here too, political will is needed to give priority to the most important things. The government is adding 700 million. kr at the top of the previous government proposal, both as an increase in basic funding and an increase in activity growth. It is important to increase preparedness, to increase treatment in the field of mental health protection and alcohol, and to increase the possibilities of maintenance and investment, but not least to improve the ability of hospitals to recover the delay that occurs when the corona finally releases the roof. Although we are now increasing the framework for our common healthcare, we have seen in recent years that there are manning and capacity challenges in hospitals, especially in intensive settings. I think, as I have said before, that we politicians do well to share some responsibility. However, no one has made it possible that we do not take into account that the notifications and reports have become clearer and clearer in the years following the presentation of the National Emergency Plan for Pandemic Influenza in 2014. For those who stand in this for daily life in our healthcare system, it is not political games. These are realities, and we must take this seriously. There is a lot of focus on the caregivers here today, but the personnel challenge concerns several disciplines. That is why we need to see healthcare at large. We live longer and longer, and we get more complex pathologies. The lack of personnel is highly real even outside pandemics. Therefore, the government will further increase the number of educational positions and will focus largely on this in the years to come, including in terms of division of tasks within the sectors. Intensive capacity has been on the ground for the last few years, despite increased demand and need. Local health services lack people, especially in the districts. There's no quick fix on this, but now we're on. 700 million. kr here, 100 million. That's $50 million. kr there – there will be money from that. I am proud that the government, within limited timescales and action spaces, has been able to set some clear clues and point out a direction for the years to come – a direction of a common public health service that will be there when you need it. We need to stop privatisation and fragmentation. We need to strengthen the services of municipalities, hospitals and permanent staff. One of the most beautiful things about Norway is the welfare state, and our health and care services are one of the most important carriers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3650	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3655	Rarely has the health effort been more important than it is right now. Rarely has a government been so paralysed. Rarely have we seen so few measures to solve such major challenges. At the same time as the intensive capacity in hospitals has been detonated, the government does not deliver on the number of intensification sites. At the same time as the nurses call for more staff, the government does not provide enough study places. While employees in the health sector are overworked and underpaid, the government will not give them pay raise. At the same time as the Labour Party politicians say that we do not need state-funded care for the elderly, they show up: the single stories of forgotten, nurturing and even dying elderly, sick and weak in municipalities governed by opponents of state-funded care for the elderly. I must say that I am disappointed when I see the government's budget presented – not just because I disagree with the government's wishes for the country, but because it downgrades those who need our help most. For the Progress Party, it is important to prioritise good health care for people who need it. This means, for example: to expand several daily places in psychiatry and to strengthen institutions for mental health. Daily places in psychiatry have been down priorities for far too long. That's why the Progress Party is set at 900 million. kr to this in our alternative budget. Daily places must be built up, not demolished. In addition, we have to use all the providers we have. This applies to both public, private and ideals. It creates diversity and development in a sector that sorely needs it. See, for example: to the highly recognised and respected Modum Bad in Vikersund in the municipality of Modum. It's a private mental health institution. The employees are brilliantly satisfied, the users are brilliantly satisfied, and the local environment is brilliantly satisfied. This is the kind of stuff we need in the welfare mix to create a wide and good deal for those who need it. Finally, some of the most heartbreaking things I see are sick people where there is a medicine that can help them, but where the state won't offer the medicine they need. Medicine saves lives, and then it's our job to make sure that medicines are offered to people who need them. In the richest countries in the world, we can't say that we can't afford to offer drugs. It is unworthy, in the opinion of the Progress Party, to value a human life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3670	I live in a relatively large town, Trondheim, with a large hospital full of expertise in a short distance from my home. Short distances and a good offer are important when and if the need arises. But not all in Norway live in large cities with a short journey to a university hospital. In Norway, we want people to be able to live on islands, on mountains and deep inside fjords. We are for the districts and for a decentralised settlement. In order for it to be possible, both jobs, kindergartens, schools, public transport and, above all, what we are debating now: a good and safe healthcare system. All over the spring in Health-Norway, it was cut in the offer through the ABE cuts. Red will reverse these cuts, and we will strengthen the hospitals with more money in our alternative budget. These are funds that could be used, for example: improved staffing, ambulance services and local hospital. It is necessary to do so, and it must be done quickly. In these days, Health Mid-Norway – which I belong to – is in budgetary proceedings. That's how Health Mid-Norway has to save money, and then they have to cut 90-100 years' worth in the middle of a pandemic, in the middle of a crew crisis. I would like to mention here the LO Regional Conference in Trøndelag, which adopted an opinion that they saw with great concern the economic situation of Health Nord-Trøndelag. On Monday 13 September, it became known via the media that 115 million will be cut again. kr, without trustees in the health business being informed of the situation. The economic cut corresponds to 90-100 years' work, which is to be cut at the local hospitals in Levanger and Namsos. LO is concerned – rightly so. The inhabitants of the Nord-Trøndelag are concerned – rightly so. People in the districts of the whole country are concerned about cutting and tightening – and rightly so. Red is worried too. We're worried, but we're not erased the action lamb. Therefore, in our alternative state budget, Red has proposed to reverse the cuts made by the ABE reform. And we're proposing to strengthen hospitals. We would wish we had a majority for that, because it would make it safer to live in the districts of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3683	The new coronary restrictions concern many pregnant women today. They have heard the stories and stories of pregnant and birthing women in maternity care from spring 2020 – women who had to be alone in the most important moments of life, women who did not get help or support from their partner, and who were isolated and alone for many days. There is a need to secure these women, because what we know is that there were quite big differences between the hospitals and how they followed the infectious diseases councils. There is a need for health authorities to be clearer. I'm very aware that the Minister of Health and other health peaks have a lot to do these days, but these women deserve us to see them, and that we also do what we can to secure them before an important event. Volunteering is one of the most beautiful things with Norway. The organized women's movement has been working for hundreds of years to ensure women's rights and to provide for the community. The Norwegian Women's Sanitation Society has always seen the need in society for the community and established new and good offers. During World War II, they saw the need for field hospitals. In our time, they have seen the need for migrant women to have the right to and the need for support in the provision of food. Women such as women those who recently came from Afghanistan and who have not had the opportunity to learn the language received support staff and support doula in birth shortly after arrival. Research shows that these women have a rather high risk of complications during birth. These are women who don't get to tell their midwife how they're doing in birth. The midwife is also not given the good advice. Eleven maternity wards have cooperated with the Sanitation women, and SV has granted money in our alternative state budget to maintain this offer. Unfortunately, we did not get through to this, but I hope that the government will engage in dialogue with the Sanity Women and find a solution, because it is important that we ensure equivalent health services, including for women with short living in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3700	Imagine that one of the world's strongest economies is unable to handle the pressure the pandemic is giving to our health services. There are not thousands of coronary patients in Norwegian hospitals – it is under 400. Despite the fact that Norway spends more money on health than many other countries it is natural to compare us with, we almost break that burden. It has to mean that there's something about the way we run our health care system. Before the pandemic, it was established that the minimum safe number of intensification sites is 500. Norway's intensive capacity was below that. It's actually among the lowest in Europe. By comparison, Germany has 30 intensive beds per 100 000 inhabitants. Former health minister Bent Höie answered when he was asked why our capacity is so low: ‘We cannot have very many intensities in Norway. Empty spaces have no value.» This is business economic thinking. Now we know that empty spaces are valuable readiness. Consider if the capacity has to be reduced because empty spaces have no value. It weakens patient safety and increases the pressure on the entire healthcare system. This means that hospital beds must treat critically ill patients, who had been better cared for intensities, that hospitals are full of corridor Asians, that municipalities must accept elderly and nursing patients almost right from the operating table, that women who are pregnant are sent home early, and that mental illness is sent home so soon that the treatment is barely started. Saving by operating the healthcare system at a minimum chronic level is profitable in the short term – that is correct. But the consequence of running like that over a long time is that we don't have any standby capacity, that we lose the people who work there, and that we wear out the people who, after all, stay in the job. If we are to have a health service that can provide the public with safe health services even in unpredictable times, we need to be prepared. Empty beds, also known as better hospital capacity, are what makes employees feel confident that they can meet what's coming. That's what gives the public confidence that we can deal with crises. It may not be economically profitable in the short term, but we need it anyway. That's why we can't have a health care provider that plays the shop, which prioritises short-term economic profitability. We must have a health care system that operates according to professional and political objectives. We have to have a health care system that looks at the needs of the population and those who work in the services. Now we have a new Minister of Health, and I hope that the new Minister of Health sees the value of hospital capacity and how important it is to extend health care both in every hospital and across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3716	Now my kids are back at home school. Many employees have been left on leave, and a number of industries encounter uncertain times, not least travel, culture, restaurants and the outdoor industry. The world has been in a pandemic for two years. The way out of it goes through vaccination. It has been clear to both the Minister of Health and the Prime Minister. Vaccination prevents serious illness and death. Nevertheless, too many people still refuse to take vaccines. There are different reasons why people can't or won't take the vaccine. I would strongly urge anyone who can take the vaccine to do so. Some have been insecure because it's a new vaccine. To them I would say, although the vaccine is new, technology is known, and now it is set over 8.5 billion single doses in the world. We know that it works, we know that it protects, we know that it saves lives, and we know that there are vaccines that can give us life back. Many are frustrated by those who are not allowed to vaccinate now. It's not that strange, because it affects the whole community when the level of vaccination is not high enough. The other day we could read about who was admitted to a hospital with a covid-19. It's ten times as high a risk of being admitted if you're not vaccinated. The unvaccinated inmates are younger, and they get sicker. It is tempting to encourage people to vaccinate because it means something to the young, who can get a more normal everyday life, because it can reduce the burden on health services and intensive care departments, and because it can prevent jobs from shutting down. But to those who have been in doubt until now, I really just want to say, take the vaccine for yourself, because you can avoid serious illness and death with a little stick in your arm.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3731	It has been said in this debate that free treatment choices are about ideological skyscrapers from the Right, that there is a system that is only for a few. It's not ideological sky posters to use existing actors to help people faster, and it's not like free treatment choices are just for a few. Before 2013, when we had a red-green government, it was such that ordinary people could only use the public health service, while those who had a large wallet could buy themselves out of line by buying capacity from private individuals. When we introduced free treatment choices in 2015, we removed that distinction. Ordinary people now had the opportunity to take advantage of private actors — in line with those who have a large wallet, as the Workers' Party calls it. It's a little strange that the Workers' Party doesn't see that it makes a difference to people, that it means something to people when 60,000 people have chosen to make use of that system. There is something about the fact that just ordinary people use free treatment options — to see the people behind the system, those who use free treatment choices, for example. in drug treatment, where the waiting time for treatment in 2013 was 66 days, at present it is 33 days. Don't tell me it doesn't matter to someone who's addicted to alcohol and who's struggling. Don't tell me that it doesn't matter to those people who get used to free treatment, who don't stand in queue and get back to their everyday lives and to work faster. Free choice of treatment means something to people, whether you are ordinary people or you have a large wallet, because it means that you can use both the private actors who are today and the public health service. The Research Council presented in September a report showing that free treatment options have given more freedom of choice, that they have increased the diversity of our society, and that it is very important for very many patients. So it's not ideological skyscrapers, it's not a scheme that's only for a few, it's a system that's too common people – and for people with big wallets – and I hope we can soon begin to realize that this system actually matters to people, so people come back to work faster and to everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3742	I am now just drawing to give an explanation of why the Right does not vote for any of the Progress Party's loose proposals in the Chamber today. It might be late, but hopefully well. Proposal No. 15: There we expect the government to follow up. A sample of the previous government was also reduced. This is important, but we have a clear expectation that the government will follow up. Proposal No. 16: There is an important work done throughout the pandemic by retired personnel, i.e. retired health professionals, but also by pensioners in general. Fortunately, after a little pressure from us, the new government has continued this scheme so that you do not get a curtailment in your pension when you work until the summer. Otherwise, of course, it is important to ensure that as many as possible with opportunities and capacity can contribute, but we do not support this proposal. Proposal No. 17: We believe that the government can only do that, so make agreements with private individuals. I was a little worried when I heard the council answering my question instead, when she said that pharmacies and the defense could contribute with logistics and distribution. I sincerely hope that the government will now allow all forces to participate. If there's something important now, it's getting the third dose, which makes people not getting seriously ill, not being hospitalized, not experiencing such a heavy disease burden. So I fervently ask the government to consider using more to test and vaccine. Proposal No. 18: It is about the revised national budget. We are not dealing with that in the budget now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3755	To the previous speaker, it is a pity that you agree with something you agree with, because I think it would be good if you had actually been clear and sent this signal to the government. So it's kind of funny, because when I've heard the debate here -- and we've spent a few hours -- it almost seemed like there's been a difference in heaven and "h", i.e. some proper differences, here. But it's about approx. 550 million. a net difference between the two proposals made by the previous Government and those submitted by that Government. Then I register that you're concerned with the Health Personnel Commission, and that it's really great. It sounds like it's action, but in reality it's something everyone knows, so you don't have to put down a commission, it's just to implement. It is interesting to hear the debate on free treatment choices or the use of private capacity. I record, from this pulpit, that the important thing here is about ideology and ideological skyscrapers – and not that people should actually get treatment as quickly as possible and get fresh. So now our hospitals are in a very difficult situation and need to reduce activity, we need to reduce the number of people who are being treated and getting healthy, and that could be faster. So there's someone in this room who thinks it's okay, because you don't want to use the available capacity that's there. I think the most important thing is to help people, and that's why the Progress Party has also proposed 3 billion. More to hospitals, both to strengthen hospitals and to put in more intensive capacity, but also to use the available capacity that is there to help people and get people healthy. But there are parties here that think it's okay that people should just stand in line. I don't think it's okay, I think it's good if we can help more. And you might have to use some of the available private capacity to help the hospitals and the primary health services, which are now broken down in many places and send out very clear signals that there are major challenges. In the case of private health professionals and this with vaccination, I saw that the Veterinary Association was out now and said that they are also willing to stand up, and it shows that there are many out there who are willing to stand up. This is a private actor, and for some representatives from this pulpit, this is what you should not use. I think you should use everything you can to make sure that those who want to vaccine themselves are vaccinated with the third dose as soon as possible. It is at least what has been the mantra that I experience both from the government and others, and then you have to use the capacity that is there. Then I hope it is not that you vote against it simply because you have to vote against it, but that you actually read the proposals and vote for them if you think they are good proposals, and these are good proposals that everyone should vote for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3772	The way out of this pandemic is through vaccines. And what's important now is that the municipalities are relieved, so that you get the third booster dose set as soon as possible. In order to do so, the government has engaged the Defence to assist with distribution. Today, all the corona vaccines go through the municipalities. It is those who have been given the responsibility for the logistics related to distributing these glasses with the noble drops. This is a vaccine that needs special logistics, and so that we don't put new tasks on the municipalities in our eagerness to help, we have mobilized the defense. When pharmacies are subsequently allowed to stow overarms, it is through an agreement that is central, not a requirement that each municipality must conclude its separate agreement. It hasn't been done before, but we get it right now. The point is again to relieve the municipalities, not to give them new tasks. Several municipalities want and have prepared to use the occupational health service locally, both their own and that of larger enterprises in the municipality that have the type of resources available. There is also the point that we should not impose new organisational tasks on municipalities, but use the Defence to distribute this easily. There are many forces here that want to contribute, and they are also allowed to do so. This week and next, we're sending out twice as many vaccine doses as the municipalities themselves have ordered. 720 000 doses are sent out. They can be saved through mid-Christmas. The purpose is to have drop-in and low-threshold vaccines through the Christmas season, so that you can go to get the third booster dose set. Then we're at the bottom of the debate. It looks like we're getting a health budget next year. Our health service has been through a very exciting time: 20 months of pandemic. The pandemic's not over. Unfortunately, we have no spare bench ready to relieve our amazing professionals in the ministry, but from the government we work to do what we can to give them a breathing room. Each of us contributes in these days and weeks by keeping distance, using mouthbands and not hitting as many as we might want at Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3784	As the Council of State said, we are approaching evening, and the debate was probably really on its way out. Then I couldn't quite humiliate myself, because it was interesting to see the tribute that was now of free treatment choice, and the use of words that was quite tumultuous. What's nice about free treatment choices, FBV, is that it's evaluated by people on the outside of this hall. It's often a sneaky exercise when we're going to see if things work. The report – and I have the main conclusions here – says: ‘The FBV has made little contribution to the achievement of the objectives of reduced waiting times and more efficient hospitals.’ It goes on to say: ‘HELFO’s administrative tasks have become more extensive and complicated [[...]] It goes on to say: «Persons with a lower socio-economic status are overrepresented among those experiencing a breach of time.» And it says finally: ‘This confirms the picture of the FBV as a scheme available to someone and not others.’ It is not the governing parties or SV or Red that have now used the words ‘ideological skyscrapers’. It has been done by outgoing government, with its support party Progress Party. We don't have ideological sky posters about this. But we're referring to evaluation, we're referring to what actually happened, and we're referring to what works. As a result, free treatment choices work quite poorly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3809	The representative, Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen, has taken the floor twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3814	With the feedback from the Council of State now, the Right nevertheless votes in favour of proposal No. 17, from the Progress Party, for our impression has been that even more should be used to assist in the vaccination. I then recommend that the Right-wing Representatives vote in favour of proposal No. 17. Then I use the opportunity to thank you for a good debate, for the committee and the others who have contributed outside the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3821	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3838	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3845	This case is about extending the temporary law of 26 May 2020 on electronic ticketing on ferries as a result of the outbreak of covid-19. Today, the scheme applies until 1 January, and the proposal we are now considering is to extend this temporary law. The scheme deals with both national road and county roads. At the same time as the introduction of electronic ticketing, the national legislation on ferry tariffs was amended by the AutoPASS regulation on ferry tariffs, so that it is now only payable for vehicles. Reading equipment has also been acquired, so an extension now will not have significant economic consequences. No consultation has been held in this round, but there were two rounds of hearings at the previous session in Stortinget. In September, the Swedish Road Administration asked the Ministry and the Solberg Government to extend the scheme further and to explain the good experience and the need to continue to prevent the spread of infection by the ferry crew. The experience you had with electronic ticketing was also so good that someone asked for the law to be changed, so that this could be a permanent arrangement. Unfortunately, both the extension of the temporary arrangement and the question of a permanent arrangement were rejected with the argument that the Solberg government had decided that society should be reopened to a normal everyday life. Thus, most of the national coronary intervention measures were terminated. A little longer time is needed to prepare for permanent changes to the Professional Transport Act, so that the processing of personal data becomes part of the existing legislation. Among other things, we must: carry out a public consultation. This work has already started today's government. With the decision we are making today, we get a necessary temporary arrangement, so that there won't be a period of manual collection until we have the fixed arrangement in place. The recommendation shall be made by an overall committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3860	‘Emergency teaches naked women to spin’ is a word that may be useful for several actions that have been carried out in the light of the coronary apathy to protect the population and service providers from disproportionately high levels of infection. Such a measure has been raised on our table today, and the issue is relatively familiar. This is about extending a contact-free ticketing system on ferries, so you can avoid contact between ferry crews and travellers. It happens that sudden changes in society lead to innovation and the need to think new. This covid-19 has shown us in several areas. New business models have emerged, and new and more efficient digital solutions are seeing the light of day. It has definitely been done by means of electronic ticketing systems. We have an effective collection system, there has been more time for the crew on the ferry to carry out other tasks, and for passengers it is a premonition that the payment is made automatically. We must pay anyway. Until we have wedding solutions in place to replace ferries, where also passing with time will happen with AutoPASS, this is a solution we are going to continue with on the ferries. The order was the government of Solberg that first got in place, and she has been extended twice. As we understand it is now a measure that both ferry companies, county municipalities and travellers want to be permanent. In the Right, we do not see any reason to wait to introduce the measure as a permanent arrangement, but of course respect that this should be done through the usual democratic processes, such as hearings and answers. Our call is that the matter of a permanent order comes back to Stortinget in good time before the next temporary period is over. I would therefore like to put forward the proposal for the Progress Party and the Right is behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3871	The representative of Liv Kari Eskeland has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3876	On 15 November I delivered the following questions to the Minister for Transport: «When the temporary arrangement has been so successful, and is considered to be preferred and that the desire to reverse and revert to the old scheme, 1 January next year, is a worse solution, would it not then be possible to extend a scheme that everyone thinks is better and more forward-looking?» On Friday last week, a proposition was presented about this, and today, exactly one month after the question was asked, this is decided in Stortinget. We who expect efficiency are more than satisfied, and here the Minister has shown action. I hope, of course, that in the future the minister has also intended to deliver as well as quickly as possible on all SV's requests. We'll get back to how the system should be incorporated on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3888	The case concerns the government's proposal to extend the temporary ferry ticket due to an outbreak of covid-19, where it is then proposed to last until 1 July 2022. I appreciate the fact that Stortinget has arranged for a very quick examination of this matter, and that it is a unanimous committee that has discontinued in accordance with the bill. The temporary law allows the ratings of the public ferry services to be ticketed through registration of the vehicle registration plates or AutoPASS tags and after-sales billing. The system provides for a non-infectious ticketing system, allowing ferry services to be kept open to traffic and ensuring the income of state and county municipalities from ferry tickets. There has been a very important response in the situation of the corona virus and has been of great importance both for the crew and for the maintenance of the ferry service throughout the country. The scheme has been implemented in all county municipalities with ferry services, except for Troms and Finnmark, which are not involved in ticketing cooperation and have not notified of this need. The Road Administration has provided feedback that the measure has worked well throughout the duration of this scheme. There is good dialogue between all stakeholders – the shipping companies, county municipalities, road users’ organisations, etc. – in this area. The Ministry has not carried out a hearing on the proposal for an extension of time, but has become aware that both industry and county authorities have wanted the scheme to continue, inter alia. due to the current infectiveness situation. Through the consultation recordings we received the last time the law was extended, from 1 January 2021 to 1 January 2022, I am well aware that many people want the electronic ticketing system permanently. The Ministry is preparing a consultation note with proposals for the necessary permanent amendments to the Professional Transport Act. This is a high priority work in the ministry. Until such a bill is ready to be promoted, the situation with the Korona virus in the autumn/winter of 2021 has shown that there is still a need to have a temporary law for a period to come. It is hoped that the degree of vaccination will lead us to arrive soon at a time when there is no longer a need to use the temporary measures against the coronary virus. We still don't know for sure when it will happen, especially in the light of new virus variants. Here, the State Road Administration and County Authorities will follow the general assessments of the health authorities. A duration of the law of July 2022 will give the safety margin we need in this area, as it looks now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3901	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3906	As both the Council of State and we understand, the vast majority of actors are very pleased with the temporary arrangement, and several – as the Council of State was – are calling for this to be done permanently. Does the Council of States see fundamental reasons why this cannot be resolved quickly and appropriately?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3911	No, at the moment I'm not, but we're going to do some work in the ministry on it. I think we should get this done, and I want this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3916	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3932	Councillor Jon-Ivar Nygård wants to deliver 2 kg. propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3943	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3952	Case No. 1–4 is the second time the treatment of legal acts and liabilities up to and including the 10th time. There are no comments suggested. The law of the Grand Duchy is therefore adopted at second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e3966	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-3, from Helge André Njåstad on behalf of the Progress Party and Red proposed no. 4 and 5, from Helge André Njåstad on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 6, by Tobias Drivenland Lund on behalf of Red and Left proposed no. 7 and 8, by Tobias Drivenland Lund on behalf of Red Proposal No. 7 and 8, from Red. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal for a legal obligation during 2022 to link all municipalities and county councils to e-Insight, and to propose how this funding is to be implemented.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asked to put in place an aid scheme for those who have high heating costs but do not qualify for housing aid.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e4003	Proposal No. 6, from Red and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to look at the possibility of giving the county councils more tasks.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e4020	Proposal No. 4 and 5 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide full financing of the user equipment of the Machine Laboratory and the Construction Laboratory of the Ocean Space Centre in the budgets for 2023 and 2024.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the municipalities in the State-funded elderly care test project to provide the funds they would have had if the project had continued as foreseen, in return for a corresponding reduction in the population grant.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e4042	Proposal No. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party and Red. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that the House Bank also includes municipal crisis centres in its arrangements.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government requests the setting up of an expert committee on water and sewerage to meet the high demand and investment needs of municipalities in a cost-effective and sustainable way.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e4067	Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is still asking for 27 million to be added to the budget for a future holiday relief project for Ålö. kronor of annual grants within chapter. 572 heading 60. ‘... The Green and Christian People's Party has every support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e8454	Right, the Progress Party, Red, Left, the Environment Party The Green and Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e8466	It was also recommended that:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e9449	The progress party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e9468	A total of 18 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party, Red and Patient Focus proposal No 2, from Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen on behalf of Right proposed no. 3-7, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Advance Party and Red proposal No 8, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party and Patient Focus proposed no. 9 and 10 and No 15-18, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party proposed no. 11-14, from Seher Aydar on behalf of Red Proposal No. 11, 12 and 14 from Red. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government of the State budget for 2023 is asked to monitor the regional health companies for the ABE reform.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that all health enterprises have schemes with their own temporary work pool/employee with permanent staff.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the maternity ward in Kristiansund is maintained, even after the new Health Hospital is in operation.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e9518	Proposal No. 13 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to wind up the system of neutral VAT in healthcare companies and to promote it in the context of the State budget for 2023.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e9533	Proposal No. 17, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the conclusion of national agreements on coronary vaccination and coronary testing with private health professionals.’ Right-wing support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e9550	Proposal No. 9, 10 and 18, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking that children referred from a health care professional or a doctor to a local optician should be covered by the full or part of the visual survey through public funding.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the medicine Kaphtrio is used as soon as possible for the treatment of persons with cystic fibrosis.’ Proposal 18 reads: ‘The government is asked to contribute funds from the revised national budget for 2022 to allow ALS patients in Norway to stay at the ALS-huset Rosenlund Park in Løten.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e9580	Proposal No. 8 from Progress Party and Patient Focus. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to initiate the design of a fully-fledged maternity ward in the municipality of Alta during 2022.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e9597	Proposal No. 3-7, from the Progress Party and Red. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the IT systems of the mammography programme are updated so that women do not risk delayed breast cancer diagnosis.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that public health services are able to provide early ultrasound and that NIPT becomes available to all pregnant women.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the construction of new Stavanger University Hospitals does not stop.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to provide a fund for large hospital investments.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to assess the impact on patients of the introduction of bids for medicinal products financed by public funds and the benefits of the medicinal products and to provide an appropriate assessment to the Storting. Tenders of medicinal products financed by public funds shall not be put into effect until the Stortinget has dealt with the matter.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e9637	Proposal No. 16 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for measures to be taken by the government to ensure that posted workers, students, disability pensioners and old-age pensioners can work in municipalities and health enterprises with tasks that allow them to quickly relieve employees in health and care services. It is necessary to ensure that the income limit for students and the reduction in social security and pensions do not apply to those who work in the health care system during the pandemic, as long as additional labour is needed due to the coronary apathy.» The Greens and the Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e9654	Proposal No. 15, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government and the KS are asked to re-assess the impact of the coronary crisis on the local economy and to compensate municipalities for increased expenditure and reduced income.’ The Left, the Red and the Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e9671	Proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that tenders for medicinal products financed by public funds are organised in such a way that no patient should have to switch to treatment without their own wish. The majority calls on the government to facilitate the restriction of tenders for medicinal products financed by public funds to the initiation of new treatment and where the patient needs to change treatment for medical reasons.’ The Greens have already received subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e9688	Proposal No. 1, from Progress Party, Red and Patient Focus. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that health businesses offer more training positions for nurses and midwives.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e13008	Right, the Progress Party, Red, Left, the Environment Party The Green and Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e13027	The Green Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e13046	During the debate, Liv Kari Eskeland has presented a proposal on behalf of the Right and the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to start the work of making electronic ticketing on a ferry permanently and to file a case for the Stortingen to do so’. The Green and Christian People's Party has every support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e13089	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e13099	The law decision will be set up for second time treatment in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-16.ana.ud62e13127	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
