ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e63	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative, Per-Willy Amundsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e70	On behalf of Peter Frölich, Lene Vågslid, Jenny Klinge, Petter Eide, Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal, Solveig Schytz and myself, I am promoting a proposal for a representative to change the rules of the penal code on the coercion of religious marriage.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e75	The representative of Kjell-Børge Freiberg will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e80	I have the sincere pleasure of presenting a proposal for a representative on behalf of Erlend Wiborg, Hanne Dyveke Søttar and myself for better arrangements for young people to avoid becoming more destitute, with reference to the interaction model in Saltdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e85	The representative, Mr Liv Signe Navarsete, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e90	On behalf of the representatives of Sandra Borch, Bengt Fasteraune, Willfred Nordlund, Emilie Enger Mehl, Geir Adelsten Iversen and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to secure the Army's helicopter support at Bardufoss.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e95	The representative, Arne Nävra, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e100	On behalf of the major representatives of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Karin Andersen and myself, I am delighted to make an important proposal to set up an expert committee to investigate the possible lasting consequences of travel habits and traffic forecasts in the transport sector after the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e106	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e124	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e142	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions by members of the Government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e151	I want to start by thanking the Committee for good cooperation. This matter may have to be said to be a little overtime, as the committee's work was mostly avoided in good time before Christmas, and because the framework conditions were largely determined in connection with the state budget for the year we are now in. It is a unanimous committee that determines that carbon capture and storage are essential to limit anthropogenic climate change and achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement to keep the global temperature rise below 2 degrees. That's good. It has long been widely agreed that Norway has a unique opportunity and obligation to realise industrial installations for capture and storage. Ten years ago someone talked about moon landing, but then it was about making the oil industry emission-free. A lot has happened since then. Today's project, which the government has chosen to call Langskip, aims to offer capture technology to all industries that emit black carbon. The plan is to be able to offer the reception and storage of carbon from other countries while exporting world-leading capture technology. Norway is already the world leader in carbon capture. On the base, operators have been involved in carbon capture and storage for more than 20 years, and both Norway and other countries have been successful in the technology of the petroleum industry. I'm not going to dwell on the possibilities that lie here – they're after all very well-lit. The centre party considers that it is necessary to clarify the importance of bets on the capture and storage of the black carbon. We want Norway to take advantage of the opportunities that lie here for future value creation, technology development and jobs. During the four-year period that is now soon behind us, the Centre Party has impatiently honoured the projects that have been under planning. Today we are left with two projects that are ready. One concerns the cement factory in Brevik, the other concerns the waste incineration plant here in Oslo, on Klemetsrud. I'm not hiding that the Center Party wants both of them to be realised, because it will provide a more robust value chain, a better basis for future projects and the basis for an important export product in the years to come. As I said, we do not achieve the objectives of the Paris agreement without a solution for industry, nor without a solution for world waste incineration plants. The Government has proposed that the Klemetsrud plant be partly financed by the EU. Of course, we in the Center Party hope that it can be done, because it is essential to succeed, but we are critical of the government adding up to this funding model, because it creates uncertainty as to whether there is real will to succeed on the part of the government. The Centre Party also considers it important to put in place a strategy for the further roll-out of more capture and storage facilities in the future. Brevik and possibly Clemetsrud will be the first, but they won't be the last. I recommend this committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e176	This is an unusually important debate on an unusually important topic. Finally, we can take the next step in the long story of carbon capture and storage in Norway. Norway took on leadership troughs internationally many years ago, early in the period of the Stoltenberg government. As the case rapporteur, I am pleased that there is now a broad consensus that we are now going into the next chapter with full-scale bets on catching by establishing a value chain for both capture, transport and storage. And I enjoy the progress that has been made in the Northern Lights project, where Equinor, Total and Shell cooperate, which is important in itself, but which is also important to show that this is true. What we do here is nothing less than good climate policy, good environmental policy and good industrial policy in a sense. It's a climate policy imperative because there are very few alternatives if we're going to achieve the Paris Agreement's goal of limiting the global warming to 1.5 degrees, or for that matter to 2 degrees, except carbon capture and storage. The alternatives available are significantly more expensive and far more inclusive in people's lives than success in carbon capture and storage. So this is simply Norway's main single contribution to the international climate struggle. It is also an industrial imperative, because, as the rapporteur made clear, carbon capture and storage will be linked to many of the new technologies, the new solutions that are now in high demand for international energy. I want to use the opportunity to remind you that late last night, or last night, the European Union's Green New Deal was the result of the United States Green New Deal. The United States is back in the Paris Agreement, but there is also a massive cross-sectoral effort to engage in the competition for the new technologies, which allows that country to go from the fossil industry of the 20th century to the renewable industry of the 21st century. This is good, but it also sends a clear signal to Norway. Simply put, what we can be good at in the future will become increasingly popular in the market, while what we've been good at up to now, and which I'm very happy that we've handled so well, will fall faster than we thought. Finally, I would also like to say that it is important that we succeed in two installations. When it came to sending an application to the EU, we, like the Central Party, as was explained, have come to the conclusion that that application should be maintained. It is fine and welcome if we succeed in getting that money from the EU Innovation Fund, but we have thought it would be a good idea to signal that we are increasing the Norwegian contribution, thereby also increasing the likelihood of impact. Because we're going to have to succeed in both process industry and waste management. The last is something we're always going to need.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e187	The Langskip proposal has a long history. She started with what was finally called the 'Monthly Landing' to the Red-Green Government, which too many still up as a crash landing, but with which the government has systematically worked for many years after that to get on the right track. Even when the Progress Party was part of the government, it was working systematically to contribute to technological development such as the capture and storage of CO 2. When the Progress Party in this matter and until the concrete project have chosen a course other than the large-scale majority, there are several weaknesses in the government's proposal for Langskip, as we consider it. The most important thing is that there are too many taxpayers who take the main risk, the economic risk, in the project, while the company is the one who is left with the gain for all practical purposes. In other words, there is too much imbalance between who takes the risk and who gets the gain. There are also several other challenges in this project. The example from Mongstad showed us that misplaced things appear in such a large industrial project, with which, as the government itself writes in the message, a great risk attached. For example, it would have been a good idea not to implement two projects in parallel, for the simple reason that one can learn from errors in the realization of the first, so that one escapes to repeat tabs that can be done in transit, because this is extremely demanding. The risk balance that the Storting should have done, which the business itself would have done, chooses the Storting actively to ignore when dealing with this matter. That is the fundamental challenge of the proposal on the table, which made it necessary for the Progress Party to be streamlined through the budgetary agreement in several areas for more clarity in relieving this risk in the future. The reason that taxpayers take so much of the risk is that the private companies behind it would not have done so. Just that the follow-up must be close. There are still several challenges with Langskip.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e201	A little bit more meaningful than starting this very day by discussing what we can do to tackle our time's great challenge, the climate crisis. After the Presidential change in the United States last night and the news that the United States will re-enter the Paris Agreement, there is reason to say that there is hope. There is hope that we will manage to cut greenhouse gas emissions, so we avoid the worst consequences of the climate crisis. The issue we are discussing now, CO 2 capture and storage, is not a new issue. I even made my first acquaintance in 1989 at a meeting in Trondheim Nature and Youth. It was Erik Lindeberg, researcher at SINTEF in Trondheim, who asked how to solve the emission problems of the planned gas power plant on the Tjeldbergodden in Møre and Romsdal. The CO 2 could be captured and stored. It is part of the story that this gas power plant eventually became CO 2-free – not because it was captured and stored, but because it was never built. Today, the climate crisis is a significantly greater challenge than it was in 1989. This is why much more effort is needed. We are pleased that the government will ensure that there will be CO 2 capture at the cement production in Brevik. We think it's crucial to get CO 2 emissions removed from other cement producers around the world. Unfortunately, the government will not agree to ensure that we get CO 2 capture at the garbage incineration plant here in Oslo. In this respect, the government leaves the decision to the EU Innovation Fund – a fund with many applicants and a limited amount of money. The application amount is 3 billion. kr, to which the proposal to the Government refers, amounts to 30 pst. by the first call of the Innovation Fund. Several are rightly concerned about whether the EU will grant such a large amount to a single project. There is a great chance of spreading funds to various industrial sectors and geographically in all or large parts of Europe. The Energy Transition Outlook 2020 report of the DNV GL of 8 September 2020 estimates that the world will pass the level that drives the temperature above 1.5 degrees already in 2028. Thus, we are in a very serious situation that means that we cannot take the necessary emission cuts a little after a while. That is why we cannot just put our trust in the EU Innovation Fund. Therefore, we also have to contribute to ensuring full financing of carbon capture at the Fortum Oslo Heating plant. I'll bring up the suggestions that SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e237	Then the representative Lars Haltbrecken addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e242	Norway is leading in some of the most important to save the globe from excessive climate emissions. Catching carbon becomes absolutely essential, but it's also worth remembering that technology doesn't do everything. It won't significantly reduce the temperature and global warming, so we have to do more, but Norway is doing its part here, has done it for a long time and has taken on a great deal of responsibility. Several have been on Mongstad and the Red-Green government's attempt to land the moon, as the representative Dale described as a "crash landing". But it is also with respect that we stand here today because there are demanding technologies that need to be adapted. This is catch, but there is also transport, and there is storage on the seabed, and that is the combination of what makes Norway far ahead and showing the way. The pace of that project has been a major part of the debate, especially in recent years, but the government is now delivering what we have always said, on date, and we are keeping progress, despite the fact that there are wells that have had to be re- drilled on the seabed, and other technology-related challenges. In the case of the EU as a co-financing source: Yes, it is a major joint project we are embarking on, and we have, from the Norwegian side, regardless of governments, the job of carbon capture and storage as part of the EU's innovation fund and funding. Carbon capture and storage are now on the list of innovation projects. In addition, the Northern Lights project is strongly anchored in the other Nordic countries, contributing to the EU's interest in this. Of course, we can discuss this. However, there are also other actors who want to have an interest in waste incineration here, because more waste incineration plants need to be built in the world, and when one can put on capture facilities in addition, Norway has a great export potential. So to the left's role in this, we've been a big pusher. The left went to elections in 2013 on two projects. Today's leader in Left, Guri Melby, was City Council in Oslo when the Clemetsrud start shot went, and the Jeleya negotiations in 2018 have been important for us to be there now. We can also thank the Progress Party – when they were in government – for their good support to get where we are now. It has been important with the progress, the appropriations that we have had to make along the way to arrive at today's projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e253	This is a day of joy. I am pleased that we are dealing with the message that describes the largest climate project in the Norwegian industry ever. We're not the only ones who are happy here today. It's joy at industry, the social partners, researchers, environmental organisations. This notification and the processing of this notification are a win. I would like to congratulate the Council of State Tina Bru on the work she has done on this matter, as well as on the range of Progress Party Councils that have worked well with what we are doing today. This is a climate policy milestone. It's a project that will cut emissions, not development. That is exactly in line with what is the Right and the Government's climate policy. It is about securing existing and creating new green industrial jobs. Right there's a priority for the government. Note the thread that is in the climate policy for industry, from this government – from Hydro Karmøy to Hywind Tampen on to Langskip. This is related. This is the right way to think about if you want a green transition, and if you want to stop the growth, but to uncouple emissions from growth, because it's the only way to solve the climate problem and have a green transition at the same time. Langskip is the first project of its kind. Although the technology in each part of the project is well-tested, there is, of course, the risk associated with this. But this project differs from the red-green project, and I understand they're tired of hearing about it, so I'm going to be brief and say that it's different from the red-green project because this is not a blank mandate from Norwegian taxpayers to industry. Here the risk is distributed over several hands just because we have to learn from the faults the red-green ones did. So this is a more sensible project where it's not like that, as the representative Dale is trying to give the impression, that all the risk lies with the taxpayers. No, the risk also lies with companies, the industry that is involved. Then there are a number of misunderstandings about the EU Innovation Fund, how it works, etc. But if I had been a member of the Workers' Party – of course I would never have been, but if I had, I would have been a little nervous, thinking twice before I went up to the pulpit today. This month after month, we have said that we need to fully finance two and not have anything to do with the EU's innovation fund, but when we deliver an alternative budget, it is my stomachache for their energy and environmental fraction, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e264	Yes, today is a happy day. As we all know, it is decisive that we are happy with carbon capture and storage if we are to achieve the international goals that have been set for climate change. This is a technology that we have to succeed with, and where Norway has the resources to go ahead and create a whole value chain. The biggest message to the government and the Langskip project and the way in which one has worked with the industry and the actors there is necessary for us to be able to succeed. With that, we are also able in practical policies to take a step forward in climate policy, and we are able to do so in a way that creates forbearance and that will in the long run ensure Norwegian industrial jobs, which the rest of Europe will also depend on us to be happy with, so that they can cope. It has a policy that cuts and does not move eject. Hence this is a happy day. When Stortinget gives such a broad connection to this staging message, I think it's good. Although it has been played from various games in the past, it is a good idea to have such a broad connection to the content of the message. But one is also required to have a follow-up of this. In the comments from the government parties and the Progress Party, reference is made to some of the appeal decisions that are made. The Progress Party has agreed that we will provide the funds needed by the project through the budget. Then there are also some appeal decisions where the intentions are that we need to take advantage of the technology that is being developed here, and make sure that he can benefit the Norwegian industry, and that one also makes sure that the risk and responsibility are properly distributed between the state and the actors that are there. What's nice about this technology is that when we put the whole energy source in place, it's a great potential, too. There is a great potential for linking other enterprises and other countries in Europe as part of the project. It is an important part of the project's commitment to why the project is structured as it is. But it's also a great potential to connect to more people in our own country. In Climate change, there are three waste incineration projects that you have considered the cost of action. Everyone has a cost of action that is lower than the CO 2 price that the government puts up in the Climate Change Communication. In order for this to be the success we need, we need to bring the rest of Europe with us. Norway has now chosen to move ahead, and one sees that Europe is increasing its climate ambitions. This is a technology that we need, the government has delivered a good message, and this is a happy day. It's a happy day for Eyegarden, for Norway and for the countries that are around us and may have enjoyed this project. Not least, it is also a happy day for the climate and for the jobs that this project can secure and create in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e282	Langskip is an important milestone in Norwegian climate and industrial bets. It's the largest climate project in Norwegian industry ever. It can have global significance in the fight against climate change, and it creates new opportunities for green growth here in Norway. I think it is good to see that Langskip is already stimulating new projects in Norway and Europe. Last week, companies also obtained all necessary approvals from European competition authorities. Another important milestone has thus passed. Long-distance shipping is the result of many years of planning and political work by several governments and government councils from different parties. Not all bets have come forward, but they have given a lot of learning – learning we have benefited from in the preparation of Longships. The exceptionally solid decision-making basis we now have is the result of close cooperation with the industry to own and operate the projects. Gassnova has also made important contributions. The role of the state is to set the necessary framework and provide sufficient support for the industry to get the job done. The smartly designed support agreement with the stock companies is an important step in this way. It stimulates cost discipline, as well as good exploitation and further development of storage activities. It is very gratifying that significant interest has already been shown by leading European industrial operators in making use of the residual capacity in the stock. It is also important to bear in mind that a successful Longship is not just about implementing the project within the framework of costs, time and quality. If Langskip is to succeed, we must ensure that emissions sources from Europe are linked to our stock, which in turn helps to speed up the implementation of other projects and lower costs. I believe that the development of European climate policy provides a basis for optimism. Conditions now facilitate the substantial contribution of Longships to the development of CO 2 management as an effective climate action – a climate action Europe is fully dependent on achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Norway will now take an important step to further develop CO 2 management as a climate action, and I am pleased with the broad support of the Stortinget to implement Longships. Then we must not forget that it is only after the meeting we have here today that the job is going to be serious. If we are to succeed, strong commitment is still required to invest and very hard work from both industry and authorities, both in Norway and in Europe. If we succeed, we will have made a significant contribution to the world reaching the objectives set out in the Paris Agreement. Not least, we will also have built something new and big that will ensure jobs and value creation in Norwegian industry also in a low-carbon world, on the shoulders of the oil and gas industry. This project is a very good example of how it is possible to cut emissions without cutting development. It makes me proud.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e306	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e311	I really want to start by congratulating the Council of State Bru to be the Council of State that is presenting this extremely important project, which therefore has broad support in Stortinget. In fact, I would also like to thank her for recognising that this is an effort of many governments. It is a mature contrast to some other representatives from the same side of this debate so far. My question is about the way forward with regard to the half of this project that has to do with waste – not in itself Klemetsrud and the EU, where we have a solution that we have a long way to agree on, even if we add more money into it. What strategy does the Council of State want to ensure that carbon capture and storage in many more waste facilities will be possible in the future? Because it is that in industry alternatives to carbon capture and storage can in the long run be thought of, but we always want waste. Even in a future reusable economy or circular economy, there will be some waste again. It has to be burned, because we don't want to throw it in the ocean or put it in a landfill. So what is the government's long-term strategy for the waste part of carbon capture and storage?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e318	Let me start by thanking for a good cooperation between our parties on the CO 2 capture and storage project in Norway, which has been going on for many years. It's a long process that has led us here. We've stumbled on the road, but now we're finally at the finish line, and that's a very delicious feeling. So, of course, I'm glad to see that you're still eager to get on with the next one, and we're going to do more. I believe that the most important thing we can do for the strategy further, including in the case of CO 2 management of waste, is actually to implement this project. That's why we also point out that we want to realize Fortum Heat in addition, because it will provide important learning and bring costs down. It's the most important thing to be able to implement this on a larger scale. We know we're going to be totally dependent on also catching CO 2 from waste management, because it's a large emission source, and it's also in the non-quota sector. So there's good reasons to do that. We also have support mechanisms in place to seek support for mature projects and get them started, and we're going to build on them. But the most important thing is happening in this project, which will provide the learning we need to get on with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e336	I thank you for a good answer and look forward to good cooperation on that too, because it is quite important that we stand together on this. This is Norway's main single contribution to the climate struggle, and it deserves a broad collection in this house. We also have a lot of values left in the North Sea, not least in gas. But after the signals we have received from the EU, and now tonight also from the United States, we see that decarbonisation, for example. by the power sector is going to go faster than almost any of us dared to believe just a few months ago. What kind of strategy does the government have to achieve carbon capture and storage related to gas production, so that we can export hydrogen – zero-emission gas in the future? And does the Council agree that Norway's future niche in Europe might be making just the blue hydrogen, which can give volume long before the green gets in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e345	Yes, I see absolutely a great future for blue hydrogen. I think Europe is going to be totally dependent on it. Even when you look at the strong ambitions that many European countries now have for how much hydrogen they see fit to use, it is quite obvious that they will also need it. Greens will not be enough, at least not in the short term, and it will require enormous amounts of renewable energy to realise them. So once again, this project is a super important step in that direction. That's what makes it possible to make a big contribution to the production of blue hydrogen in Norway, now that we have the storage capacity in place. I also know that many actors are looking at this in Norway. I think we have once again reached a milestone that draws a map further on where we can land in Norway – a way of ensuring value creation from our amazing natural resources also on Norwegian soil, in a green future where this will be extremely important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e354	I would also like to congratulate the Council of State on this matter. The government points to the EU for the financing of the site on Klemetsrud. The EU Innovation Fund is 1 billion. euro. There are 311 applicants, and together there are applications for projects worth 21.7 billion. euro. The centre party hopes that Norway will succeed in that application, but there are 17 other applications from Norway in addition, of which more than 15 are CCS projects. If a Norwegian project receives a third of the EU innovation fund, it is alarming. So the question is, has the government pushed this to Brussels to drop the cost of being responsible for saying no to Klemetsrud?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e363	If the government has done that, then the Center Party has done the exact same thing. Because if the Center Party is so concerned about this, it could also be provided for full funding by Fortum Oslo Heat in its alternative state budget. It hasn't been done by the Center Party. They are spending a little more money, but they will still depend on this innovation fund, which has so many applications, to which the representative refers, choosing the Norwegian project. I believe in the Norwegian project. I have faith in Oslo Fortum's project. It's well matured. It fits hand in hand with many of the plans and ambitions that Europe also has. So I'm not going to stand here now and talk down the possibilities they have to get this money. And it's not just about funding, it's not a money issue; it's a question of getting Europe involved in carbon capture and storage. For what's going to do Langskip successfully, after all, with Norcem, and with Fortum Oslo Heating, if it's realized, is that others are following in Europe. Then it is also important to include Europe in this project. I have faith in the project, and it's a shame the Center Party doesn't have the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e372	I can rest assured that the Center Party has great faith in the project on Klemetsrud. We are asking questions about the realism of EU funding. And we've chosen to go for it in this round. In order to ask the question a little differently – or as a follow-up to Klemetsrud: we therefore need to get caught and stored in waste incineration plants to achieve the Paris objectives. That's about. 450 incineration plants in Europe. The question is: why has the government removed the facility that is perhaps most relevant to Norwegian municipalities and Norwegian emissions, and instead went to an industrial giant?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e379	I must again be allowed to comment that if you are concerned with realism in getting funding from the EU, you should fully finance the project yourself in your alternative state budget – if you do not believe that it is possible. But it doesn't matter to the Center Party, so you have to have faith in it. If you're so worried, you should deposit all the money yourself. You don't. So something tells me that the Center Party also sees the value over and above funding, that it also has an independent value to get the EU involved. On the question of why we have chosen Norcem instead of Fortum Oslo Heat as what we are going to realize first, it is a matter of course. that the quality assurance clearly points to Norcem as the best project. So we also know that the learning from doing two projects in parallel is not as big as what you might initially think, even though there are two different sectors. There are nevertheless very good reasons, precisely the reasons the representative mentions, to also realize Fortum. So that's what we're working against, and we're committed to 3 billion. NOK for that project if we also ensure sufficient other funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e386	I think I too should congratulate the Council of State today on an important project. And then I would like to ask the Council of State: what if the strategy of getting money from the EU fails? What if the EU Innovation Fund does not contribute money to the project at Klemetsrud in Oslo, or contributes too little? What will the Council of State do to ensure that we also get CO 2 capture and storage at the incineration plant here in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e394	First of all, thank you for the congratulations – it is very pleasant. I think we should also share this with my good colleague in SV. I think it's a little too early now to start talking as if this isn't possible to get to. Now we first have to see how the application goes, and then we get to take it from there. However, the government has not pointed to the EU Innovation Fund as the only option for other funding. We have just said that we need to secure sufficient other funding, point to the innovation fund as an opportunity and also encouraged the company to apply there. I notice that the government parties write in the comments in the vote on the matter here today that Oslo Municipality, for example, can also contribute if they want to. We have no contradictions with other sources of funding, but we have pointed out the EU Innovation Fund as a good opportunity that I think fits well with this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e402	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State points out that the EU Innovation Fund can be a potential source of funding, and it also points to the Municipality of Oslo. Does the Council have other possible sources of funding besides these two?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e407	I mean, I just answered that. I think it's too early to have that discussion now. We have proposed to go two application rounds in the Innovation Fund in the agreement with Fortum. We're working on that track, and then we're going to get back to it. But we are also open to Fortum finding other sources of funding. I know that Fortum is busy and works well with this. I feel that we also have a good dialogue with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e412	I just have to add myself to the range of all the congratulations. But this is also based on a previous initiative from Norway and that we were so early in investing in capture technology and research – the Mongstad project, TCM at Mongstad. Then we hear especially the Progress Party, Left and – previously – Right saying that this was a failed investment. But we know that the U.S. Climate Ministry has entered into a commitment agreement, despite Trump, with the TCM, and the Indians are inside, because it is the most advanced research center in the field of fishing. So my question is, what does the Council of State mean about the research centre TCM?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e417	First of all, I would like to say that I have never heard anyone in the government parties or others say that the TCM has failed. TCM has on the contrary been some of the things that have been brought forward as the positive that came out of Mongstad, but I think we all have to agree that the CO 2 capture project at Mongstad did not work out as one had thought it would succeed. But as I also said in my article, it has given very important learning, which has made it possible for us to stand here today. There's no doubt about it. TCM is important, and it's going to continue to be important. It is true, as the representative says, that it is also frequently used by other international actors, and it is a great strength for Norway. That's also why I have such faith in this project. I think we should succeed in this in Europe because we have so much experience with it – we have shown that it is possible to achieve it. Let's move on. For the first time, we will now have a full value chain with CO 2 capture and storage, demonstrate it and bring down costs, so it can roll out across Europe. It's my dream.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e428	With that, the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e435	As many people have been involved, carbon capture is needed to achieve the climate targets. There are few countries that have the technology and industrial competence, the economic resources and as well as the availability of stable wells to store CO 2 that Norway has. Northern Lights has clearly demonstrated the interaction between the development of capture technology and storage technology to maintain a leading position in Norway. CO 2 capture and storage and recycling of carbon will play an important role in halting global warming. Full-scale facilities are an example of industrial development that we will see more in the future, which will help both to reduce climate emissions and to develop new industries with new jobs and values to finance future well-being. However, as many have been involved, the Community's funds take the greatest risk and the bill for investment. That's why it's incredibly important that we, as corporations, governments and governments, follow up on the fact that it helps create new jobs, and that the values benefit not only private companies but also the large community. There is a lot of uncertainty in the future, both the type of industry that will develop in relation to the full-scale facilities, how the carbon price will develop, competition from other carbon capture technologies or other alternative solutions, and not least the world’s ability to prioritise the climate challenges. As represented by Mr Eide, Norway has high natural gas values. I may be missing a little clearer connection here, even though the Council of State Tina Bru responded clearly, in terms of realising the values we have in terms of natural gas, when the prices of natural gas fall. The main market is, at least, the EU today, and there are great expectations of hydrogen. We know that there is too little access to green renewable energy to produce the green hydrogen, so we should think about how we can make good agreements with the EU, because there are also different signals about how much they want to have blue or green hydrogen. So that we connect Langskip more strongly to an offensive effort to realize the values of natural gas, we think is very important in the future. But finally, optimism is incredibly great in Eyegarden. There, the project has been started with all the pomp and splendour that is going on, they are at the heart of the great industrial cluster that the West is, and we are looking forward to finding new jobs, new fantastic opportunities, and we are also getting new values to fund our well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e458	First, I just want to thank you for one thing that the previous speaker said. She said that this must not be something that comes only to the private companies, but also to the community. for good. That's what I thought was a little bit interesting, and it shows a little bit of what's the difference between the Right Party and the Workers' Party in a nutshell, because private companies are part of the community. We work there, that's where we get our income, and it's those who contribute tax revenue and value creation to the community. So it's pretty close. This is a very, very big day. Not only have we got a climate offensive president in the White House; he has, on his very first day, chosen to take the United States back into the Paris Agreement, and with that we get an extra giver in the climate struggle in the world. This means that Europe is no longer alone. We stand shoulder to shoulder with our friends in the west, and together we escalate the effort to cut the emissions and not the evolution. And that's exactly what's the most important thing about Langskip. It is not just offensive and visionary; it is realistic, and it ensures green, safe and modern jobs for the future. CCS is one of the climate kids' eggs: we cut emissions, we develop technology that we can sell, and we create jobs. And for me, who's from Norway's most beautiful state – very nice not to be able to get lines on it – Vestfold and Telemark, the county that has almost everything, we have fjords, mountains and – let me look away at Eastfold here – Norway's most beautiful archipelago, and we have industry, high technology and agriculture. For all of us, this is a joyous day. We have worked hard and long for this. CCS on Norcem makes us almost complete as a state. Now we just need double tracks on intercity all the way down to Grenland, and then we'll never ask for anything again – maybe. So we can stand on this pulpit and tiled nails a little bit from different parties and mark some shades and say exactly what's important to our particular party, but we actually agree on this cross-politically. We're a lot of people who've fought for this. The party of progress has driven it forward in government, which is very good. The Labour Party has the same arrangement as us in its alternative budget, and everything is – at least compared to the political situation of our friends in the West – pure harmony. Norway is in the front, the opposition is kind of hanging out, and together we can celebrate that Norway's most beautiful counties are leading the fight for green growth, new technology and secure jobs. As if not enough, the government's best government councils, Rotevatn and Bru, have driven forward the most offensive climate policy in Norway's history. We have presented the climate communication, and it is, together with CCS, a real change of pace for climate policy in Norway. So thank you to everyone who has worked for it! I'm glad we're going to deal with it in the hall as well. And to everyone, congratulations on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e471	We agree on a cross-political basis that this is an important opportunity for Norwegian industry. The government has pointed to two facilities, one fully funded and one with a financing method that lies a little outside the traditional. There are many good reasons to point to two installations, including reducing the cost of action per tonne of CO 2 captured, in order to ensure the stability of the delivery of CO 2 into the value chain. The capture of CO 2 represents a relatively small proportion of the total cost of Longships, also with two capture installations. Nevertheless, as has now been pointed out, the government has chosen to fully finance only one facility. Norcem Heidelberg is fully funded, while Fortum Oslo Heat's clean waste incineration project has only been committed about half of the budget to realise that plant. Misunderstand me correctly: it is important to get cleaned up after the cement industry, which stands for 5 pst. of the global emissions. Nevertheless, it is okay to ask some questions about why Heidelberg has been selected, if you only had to select one facility. Reduced emissions from incineration will be necessary for all municipalities in the country that have such installations. Realisation of the capture and storage of waste will be far more important for Norway than the management of emissions from a cement plant, which would strictly please the owners of Germany and the global cement industry. Secondly, we believe that the ambitions for Longships, including the demonstration effect and operational safety, clearly speak for two installations. Instead, the government has sent a letter to Fortum Oslo Heat and asked them to seek funding from the EU. We have put that behind us in the setting, and we hope that we will succeed, but we will follow it closely in the future. We're impatient to solve this. That being said, the effort to catch and store should not stop here. There are several projects on the ground around the country. There are several projects that have come a long way. The representative Westgaard-Halle was inside Vestfold. In Eastfold we have a facility in Øra in Fredrikstad, which should also see the light of day with time and times, which will help to make the renewable industry in Eastfold even more clean than it already is. The question to the Council of State is: how does the government intend to follow up the projects that are not part of Longships, but are now boiling around the country, and that should see the light of day in the foreseeable future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e493	Yes, this is a big day, which has been visited by several people. Yesterday, the United States re-entered the Paris Agreement. What was an important topic in the negotiations on the legislation of the Paris Agreement back in 2018 was to get a legally strong enough agreement that included all countries, including China, so that it would be easy for the United States to register again. They put it in place. Today, the Stortinget is making a decision on Longships, which has global significance. Because if we're going to achieve the Paris Agreement's objectives and keep the temperature rise down to 1.5 degrees, we have to cut emissions. We have to be in net zero globally by 2050, but it doesn't hold on to itself. We also have to take care of and restore nature on a scale that the world has never seen before. But it doesn't hold on to itself either. To keep the heating down to 1.5 degrees, we need to have extensive carbon capture and storage. Carbon capture and storage are technologies that, according to the International Energy Agency, can cut global greenhouse gas emissions by 19 p.p. It's a huge potential. And it will create green jobs and increase exports, in this case of Norwegian climate technology. Carbon capture and storage is a new technology that the world needs. Norwegian technology can be used in thousands of industrial and waste incineration plants in several countries. All countries committed to the Paris Agreement shall cut emissions rapidly in the coming years. Then we need carbon capture and storage. I entered the Stortinget in 2013, just after the carbon storage project at Mongstad was completed. I think I've been doing this page, both through budget negotiations, to keep the project running with two facilities until 2018 and in negotiations on both the Jeleya platform and the Granavolden platform. I also want to join those who say that we had good cooperation in government, including with the Progress Party. That's why I think it's a little weird about the attitude that's there now, because we've really driven this through together. Norcem is a major project showing how climate action drives industrial development. Northern Light's storage project is important to Eyegarden. Finally, it is right to ask for support from the EU Innovation Fund for Fortum Oslo Heating and the project on Klemetsrud. But it doesn't just keep doing it. For the left, it's not about whether to realize Clemetsrud, but how to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e510	A little bit of the point of this hall is that you should be able to break opinions against each other. Sunn disagreement is good and a little bit of the point of politics. But it might also be wise to recognize when we actually agree. I want to underline once again that there is a lot of this we agree on. I am very pleased with the Council's answer to both my and the representative Grung's questions about this being a long tradition where several governments have shared responsibility, shared visions and shared risk. When special representatives Heggelund and Kjeseth spend so much time ridiculed the carbon capture plant of the Stoltenberg government, I would like to remind you that Langskip is not built. When we went in for both the test center and full funding, we thought it would work. Then it turned out that the test centre worked and became a great success, while the original full-scale system did not work. What we're doing today is deciding that we should go into very advanced technology. We're going to succeed on Norcem in catching carbon, we're going to succeed in getting a functioning transport chain, and we're going to succeed in something that hasn't been tried before, at least not on this scale, namely, storing under the North Sea in large reservoirs. It could go wrong, it could be more expensive, it could be delayed, and it could be that we get a lot of shock in this process as well. Then I want to say from this pulpit: to the extent that I and mine had to be involved in this in the future, if anything like that happens, I have not thought – write it down, the only representative of the press who follows this debate – to say that my lord, so hopelessly the Solberg government was, that they should have understood, how could they think of going in for something like that, it was up to several retired technologists who thought this would not work at all, and they didn't listen to them. Because I don't think that's very dressy. We're involved in taking this risk. There is a risk of developing new technologies. I have understood it this way from people who know a lot more about this than I do, that not only the test center, but also a lot of the learning from the full-scale project of which there was nothing, is part of the global knowledge base that has further developed carbon capture and storage. Apollo 1 didn't come to the moon, Apollo 11 came to the moon. A long bet was made, and it was a very high risk – moon landings are. I would recommend the representatives Heggelund and Kjeseth to listen to their colleague Tina Bru, who made a good contribution on this, but they can also take an extra look at the speech to President Joe Biden yesterday. He stressed that sometimes it might be wise to listen to what the other person really means, not just try to look for conflict even where there is no conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e525	The President will assure the representative, Barth Eide, that a record will be kept.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e531	That's good!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e536	It was a good thing that I followed the representative Barth Eide. I said in my speech that we should have respect for that technology, and that there were major challenges to the Mongstad project. I absolutely acknowledge that, and that the test centre has been incredibly important for us being there today. I also said something about the pace, that the government has delivered it on that date. That's where I criticise the opposition – that one has systematically undermined the government's work all the way, asked questions and raised doubts that it is possible to deliver on this. Now the government has really delivered, and I think the opposition should take note of that today. One has no more money to put on the table. One does not have a faster pace to drive this project on. It is also part of this debate that I think it is worth mentioning today. It's a responsibility you have every day in politics, not just that day you adopt something that you finally agree with. Then I would like to make it clear that the representative Myhrvold of the Center Party has mentioned HeidelbergCement, which is behind Norcem. Several have also mentioned Fortum, which is a Finnish company. HeidelbergCement is German. It also says something about which actors we are talking about here, who are involved and contribute. The further debate on this is not a conflict between the state and Oslo. This is a great effort among many actors to achieve something that is very demanding, very expensive and very necessary. That is why – to the opposition and really all of us – it is important that we also get the momentum to finance the split layer: how to use the actor Gassnova in the continuation, and how to use the CO 2 tax that the government has committed to combustion, to participate in and finance further development. Because it's not like Trondheim, Bergen, Fredrikstad and Kristiansand can sit still and wait for the state to take the bill to develop this demanding technology. There are several people who have to sign up. It's not just Finnish Fortum, who owns Klemetsrud in Oslo, who's going to take that bill all alone, but that's the cooperation we have to get. I also sit in the Nordic Council and lead a corresponding selection there. There's a lot of interest, and there's a greater and greater understanding and a greater and greater willingness to be part of this fissure layer. Therefore, it is also important that Stockholm, Copenhagen – the capitals – which have large waste incineration plants are involved in this development. So is also the competition – the risk, but also the competition – by having more players inside, very important, because the technology here is moving fast. It has been mentioned that there are only dozens of applications from Norway to the EU Innovation Fund, and it says something about both Norway’s location and the importance of competition in technology development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e552	There is no one – I can only say that to the representative Barth Eide – who does not believe that there has been a cooperation here for many years. But if he had listened to what I said in my post, I pointed to one concrete thing like, among other things. was one of the problems with the red-green project, namely that all the risks were with the taxpayers. Then I said that we learned from that error. That's one example. But then maybe Espen Barth Eide should be a little careful to talk about not kind of making a conflict where there's really no conflict. Let's do a little story. On 4 June 2020, Espen Barth Eide asks Tina Bru whether she will contribute to Norway taking an international leadership role in the production of blue hydrogen by making an investment decision with two capture projects in the near future. On 10 June 2020, Espen Barth Eide of the VG states that he does not exclude that a majority in the Stortinget will ensure full financing of two capture projects. On 21 September 2020, Espen Barth Eide tweets: «The Government does not proceed with full-scale carbon capture at the waste facility on Klemetsrud [[...]] On 21 September 2020, Espen Barth Eide says to the NRK: ‘To say to Brussels that we are unable to finance this ourselves, and that we must therefore ask Bulgarian and Portuguese taxpayers for help, sounds a bit strange... I believe that we should be able to bear this on our shoulders.’ It also shows that he does not know how the EU innovation fund is financed. On 25 August 2020, Espen Barth Eide says to NTB: ‘In order for Norway to keep the leadership trough here, we need an investment decision already in next year’s State budget on two full-scale CCS facilities.’ On 21 September 2020, he said: "At the same time, we are disappointed that we are not going further with the full-scale project at the Fortum Oslo Heating. [[...]] On 4 December 2019, when he talks about the Workers' Party's alternative budget, where the Workers' Party does not fully finance two projects, he says: ‘We have a strong commitment to carbon capture and storage, where we believe Norway has to go ahead.’ So what he's been thinking isn't going in front, what he's been thinking will delay the project, what he's supposed to delay technology development, he thought in December is going in front. This is not a matter of concern. You have to be able to handle what you think in both June and December. Consider the example of Lars Haltbrecken. Because he's gonna make it. He co-finances two projects. So when you say all these things from June to October/November, you also have to follow it up in your own alternative state budget. Espen Barth Eide chose not to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e583	Barth Eide is on the list of speakers, so he'll get answers for the most part. I just want to say that, in general, there must be a greater public risk in the start-up phase of any research project, as the Stoltenberg government did at the time, because then it was very immature. Now there's become more mature technology, both on capture and storage. So to Westgaard-Halle: I believe there is a broad political consensus that the key to success in the Nordic countries and Norway is that we have a sensible interaction between industry and authorities. When we invest so much of the community, it is possible – as we have understood – to create contracts and arrangements that ensure the value of the technology, which ensure that there is a presence of those to localise, which ensures that it will be employment, and that, when developing projects, Norwegian actors are involved in interaction with international actors, so that we constantly build up Norwegian competence to facilitate Norwegian profitable jobs and value creation. So it's a little special that a big player like the cement industry, who accounts for so much of the international emissions, who can't move so easily, and who has so much climate emissions, doesn't see a self-interest in investing even more in this project and taking a greater risk. Here, both magnification, government and government must closely monitor what comes out of technology, so that, if it is possible to sell it later, the Norwegian big community will also have a share in it, and not just international actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e592	At first, I need to comment on the contribution of the representative Myhrvold, because I think it is incredibly fascinating that the Centre Party is able to do the same debate we have today, to a versus dem debate – Norwegian municipalities versus major international actors. Let us not be concerned, then, that there have been hundreds of years of cement production in Brevik – an important part of a proud Norwegian industrial tradition and industrial history. I think it's kind of incredible. I don't think we should put these two things up against each other. In the long term, of course, we will also succeed in CO 2 management on waste. Now we have also announced a significant increase in the CO 2 tax that is going to give clear intent to get it done. And as I have said several times today, I have great faith in the project of Oslo Fortum Warm. I also wanted to take the floor to tell you a little bit about where we are now, after we took the decision on Langskip, which I believe is important, given the public debate we have about whether this will succeed, and whether this is right to bet on. We already see that Langskip has had a positive effect on the development of CCS. Just a short time after we launched Longships, Equinor entered into an intentional agreement with Microsoft, such as: assesses the storage of CO 2 in the Norwegian warehouse. Equinor is in dialogue with 60 potential customers who will decarbonise different industries in Europe. One example is the large German steel producer ThyssenKrupp. Yesterday Equinor sent draft commercial agreements to 15 different companies. HeidelbergCement, who owns Norcem, is now studying CO 2 capture at its cement production on Gotland, Sweden. So we also see a positive development in CO 2 management in several countries around us. Among other things in Denmark and Sweden, the possibility of storing CO 2 in Norway is highlighted. The State aid agreements are now ready for signing, and Equinor has already awarded the first contracts to subcontractors: Skanska, Aker, Kværner, TechnipFMC and Alcatel. So there's a lot going on here. I've said many times that the big risk in this project is not that we can't keep costs, or that the technology is not mature, that we don't get it. I think we're going to do that. It also shows the quality assurance that there is good reason to believe. What is the greatest risk is that no one follows the fact that Norway is one of the countries in the world that is betting on this and that built this infrastructure that no one else would use. But in a short time, just in the small, short time after the government said that we wanted to go for this project, we already see great movement in Europe, many positive signals, and big, important agreements being made. There's something to rejoice about today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e625	I find that my appeal to rejoice over what you agree on, not necessarily met everyone as well. I just have to take note of that. But I want to underline the one point that it's important to make, and that's that we think there should be two capture facilities, and we thought for a very long time that the right way to get to it was to go directly to the full funding of both of them. Something happened in the meantime: an application was actually sent to the EU Innovation Fund. That application is in it, it's for treatment. We considered – through a thorough reflection with our colleagues in the Centre Party, who are in line – that it was unreasonable to withdraw it while it was being treated. Instead, we said that we would increase conditional support from the original 3 billion. SEK 1.5 billion. So it's going to be $4.5 billion. kr, and then wait for what is happening in the EU. Because it almost doesn't mean that you get outside support if that's possible. So it's an attempt to approach an agreement. We're on that, and we're going to keep doing that, even if someone really wants us to have the most conflict possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e632	I have rarely had a reputation for being a party brake, but in this debate there is a need for something more sundry. Because when you hear the posts in the hall today, there's little evidence that we're actually starting investments here that will cost up to 25 billion in total. kr, on uncertain technology and at a cost that we do not know about markets will be able to pay. One of the greatest risks in this project is that the cost of action is so high that no one else can afford to take advantage of it. When listening to articles after articles that do not take over either the government itself writes about the risks in the project, the external quality assurance points to, or the risk-absorbing themes that need to be implemented, there is a cause for concern. It sounds like this is a plank running. It's not, neither when it's about technology, nor financial. That's what bothers me about the process, because it's the taxpayers who take a place between 70 and 80 pst. of the bill and risk in the project, and it is the taxpayers who are asking very much for the risk of this misinvestment on their shoulders because no private company remaining with the ownership of the technology was willing to do so. When there is the situation and one post after another is about almost overcoming each other in how much all this can be, without taking into account the realities, it gives cause for concern. In all other basic capital formations on the base, the State is involved in and takes risks, but also has a direct economic interest, for example. by assigning a share of the government – a much better risk profile than an active one here. This matter I hope we'll be happy with. I hope my scepticism turns out to be for no reason. But it gives cause for concern that no one else here seemed to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e643	This became a very strange debate in many ways. The first speeches were about everyone agreeing that this was a jubilee day for Norway, and the representatives of the Right said congratulations on the day to each other. Then we get some thunderous speeches about how the Workers' Party and the Center Party are the worst parties in the world, again from the representative Stefan Heggelund, and then the Council of State Tina Bru goes up and accuses the Center Party of being those who create division between people here. I think that Tina Bru should listen to the contributions that came from the representatives Stefan Heggelund and Ketil Kjeseth, and think about whether they contributed to greater excitement about the project that now Stortinget is unanimously standing behind. There's been a lot of talk about the moon landing. I know it's the favorite exercise for politicians in the Right and Left. I promise I will never criticize a politician for having too much ambition in the climate struggle. I would much rather have a politician who dares to bet big, who dares to think loud, but who may not come all the way. If we are to follow the reasoning of the Right, the Left and the Advance Party in this debate, we must have politicians who only dare to walk exactly the millimeters they know they will be able to do. I believe that in no political area there should be such thinking, but at least not in the climate battle. In the climate battle we have so few years, and we have so many tasks ahead of us, that we need politicians who show the way, who dare to think big, who dare to dream loud, who sometimes don't get all the way to where to go, but who get a bit on the way. That's what the Mongstad project is about. There's no reason to talk it down the way done by the bourgeois parties today. There is reason to be proud of what we have done in Norway – although we would have liked to have come further, we have come a long way. It was a strange thing to hear from the representative Stefan Heggelund, who, of course, as usual, was most concerned with the Workers' Party and had gone through the representatives Espen Barth Eide's movements in the last six months. Well, there's no doubt that the Workers' Party has been the biggest driver for both of these projects. They've been there locally, in Oslo, in Skien, in the industrial environments, in the trade movement and here in this room. We in the Workers' Party have raised our concerns about the postponement of the CCS projects at every crossroads. We could spend almost our entire speaking time today talking about how it has been cut earlier that may have given some delays. But let's not do that. Let's say it's good that we've come to where we've been, when we've come here today. Should we follow the reasoning given to Stefan Heggelund, we should have wished the Workers' Party had voted against that application. I don't think that application would have been any stronger in Brussels if it had been voted down or only to the extent that it had been voted by a government that might only sit for another six months. I think the application is stronger, that's good, and Stefan Heggelund should be pleased that the Workers' Party is now ending if what the government has done. I think that if we had been in government, it might have looked different, but now we're where we are today, and therefore the Storting should be satisfied with what they've done. The party that has really changed a lot is the Progress Party. The Progress Party believes in this matter, has really been a moving goal, from having a number of government councils, to rejecting the entire project when it came, that they now vote in favour of anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e656	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e661	A little summary, both to the Advance Party and to the Workers' Party: I would like to meet the Workers' Party in terms of their commitment to hydrogen. There's a hydrogen party at Oslo Stock Exchange now. There are large international actors who see what is happening in Norway, and we all have opportunities to re-use an infrastructure in the best possible way. Some of it probably turns blue. Some of that hope I get as green as possible. We need that. So to the risk: it's not just the taxpayers who take that risk. Fortum is a Finnish company, Heidelberg is a German company. There are taxpayers in other countries who are taking that risk: Shell, Total, Equinor. Aker Carbon Capture is another Norwegian actor. And to the representative of Myhrvold: it is also in Eastfold. Goodtech is also a small player that aims towards these markets. There are many actors, but we also need to be able to work together, including. between the Nordic countries. We are really in the green corner to build green competitiveness in Europe, and this opportunity is coming together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e668	Stefan Heggelund has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e674	I stunned a little over the post to Aubrust and Barth Eide. The Workers' Party has for several months signed this application in all kinds of media, and it endorsed it and said that it is totally unrealistic that the money is going to come from there. And when I commented in the newspaper that it should perhaps end the Workers' Party, and in the same article also got the opportunity to explain Espen Barth Eide how the Innovation Fund is financed, he said it was the strangest thing he had heard from that edge in a while. My point was that I am very happy for the consensus we have now, but it is not reasonable to say that the Workers' Party has been a strong driver for full funding of two plants, when it is Lars Haltbrecken who delivers it in his alternative budget. I believe what Lars Haltbrecken does in his alternative budget is wrong. I think what we're doing in our budget is right. But the Workers' Party has been criticizing us for one thing for six months in terms of carbon capture and storage, and then it's impossible not to point it out when we're dealing with the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e679	After the last post, it is almost tempting to ask about the representative's Vipps number, but I will not do that. The climate crisis requires that we lift in a flock. It is so serious that we have to find out the best in our democracy. If the government’s – or Fortum Oslo Heers – application for money from the EU Innovation Fund does not turn up, if the money does not come in too little, then as a country we must have the plans for how to proceed. SV has proposed it in its alternative budget. Unfortunately, there has been a downturn in Stortinget, but today there are proposals both from SV and MDG and from SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre to develop alternative funding methods to ensure the establishment of CO 2 capture and storage at the incineration plant here in Oslo. We would like that proposal to be given a majority, so that alternative strategies could be developed to ensure this fishing facility if it turns out that the government's strategy of getting money from the EU fails. And it's not just in Oslo that we need this investment in CO 2 capture and storage from combustion plants. We also need it in cities like Trondheim, Bergen, Stavanger, Kristiansand and Fredrikstad. We see that it is a strong desire and a strong willingness to achieve CO 2 capture and storage, and it will make a significant contribution to achieving Norway's climate targets and cutting greenhouse gas emissions, but it will also make a significant contribution to industrialising and making this technology cheaper, so that more countries can also use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e697	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e714	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e721	The wish of the proposers for a review of the plans for protected watercourses with the aim of increasing their development has been examined in depth within the Committee but has not reached a majority. Historically, we see that the first work in Stortinget in this field was already done in 1960, when the Gabrielsen Committee was set up, which resulted in the Verne Plan for Watercourses in 1973. The objective of an overall watercourse plan was to provide a comprehensive national management of the country’s watercourses, and that the plan should be seen in the context of the national park plan. These should safeguard nature protection and open air life and be balanced against the need for adequate force coverage. Today we see that it is approx. 390 protected watercourses in Norway. The 2016 Energy Communication underlined that the value of securing the protection values and pristineness of these watercourses is greater than the benefit they would gain from an expansion. Nevertheless, in specific cases it was opened up to deal with concessions for hydroelectric power plants in protected watercourses, linked to the effectiveness of flood and anti-slip measures, in the context of acceptable environmental impacts, and in that case to be addressed directly by the Storting. Interventions such as road construction, power lines and drainage could also be assessed against the protection values, if they could be implemented without hindering the protection provisions. Opovas is as far as the only protected watercourse that has been opened up by decision of the Storting as action against floods. Governments have been clear that the knowledge base is regularly updated in the NVE and that it is available on their pages. A new review will be comprehensive and labour-intensive and will therefore not be supported now. The estimated potential for development of about 50 TWh is based on a purely technical and economic development potential, cf. letters from the Council of State to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. Nevertheless, a majority believe that it is good for an applicant to find alternative sources of renewable energy and, in some cases, to consider power generation, to reduce the flood risk. In that case, these must be assessed separately. Loss of nature and climate challenges are two main challenges that society needs to solve, without one going at the expense of the other. Therefore, we need the ability to maintain and further develop an ecologically representative network of permanently protected watercourse nature, in order to preserve nature and biodiversity. I would therefore recommend the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e738	There is every good reason to agree on the starting point of this Document 8 proposal from the proposers, where they give a homage to our water power without delay. So do I! No energy production can compare with the quality of our adjustable water power – none above, none beside. We have built a lot of our wealth on this hydropower, and we have an explicit goal to develop it, and the latest in the budget for 2021, the government took action to exploit even more of the potential that lies here through changes in the tax environment, which we are already receiving feedback on will help to increase investment in kWh in hydropower. But then we have nature and the care of nature values on the other side of the scale, because all human activity requires intervention in nature, and that's of course why we've seen that some natural values must and should be protected – which is the basis of the comprehensive protective plans that are created, and which the Storting as late as in 2016 joins in through the biggest Notice Force of Change. Nevertheless – it will probably be watercourses that can have the potential to take care of both the natural qualities and cultural memories that are worth taking care of, at the same time as it is possible to build out parts of the protected watercourse – something we have more examples of. A watercourse is such an example. There are also other cases where flood situations in protected watercourses can be combined with power generation – the opovas strip was named here instead. Thus, the Stortinget, in its wisdom in managing the energy message, has opened up so that, in a specific case, concessions for water power in protected watercourses can be managed under certain conditions. At the same time, it is important to maintain what we have established through several decisions. The ministry has determined in its review of the case that one can get in the number of kilowatts compared to a relatively extensive review of our protected water day, is relatively modest. 39 pst. of the mainland is covered by protected watercourses, and there is a great job to be done in the event of these areas being re-mapled. However, the proposal takes on board a number of important issues which will enable both the Committee and the Storting to discuss further in the years to come, namely the need for more renewable energy, and how we should provide this energy in an environmentally friendly and gentle way, so that we can also take care of nature. The party of progress should be praised for looking around for innovative solutions to meet the increasing energy demand now that we aim to phase out the fossil energy we use in many areas today. I see that they will also be constructive contributors to this work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e763	The Progress Party has asked Stortinget to take a look at the possibilities of gentle hydroelectric expansion in sheltered watercourses, but no, we don't get it. Such a review is too extensive, was the answer. Then we asked if the power companies could take that review, but we didn't get a majority for that either. Such an establishment is not possible without intervention in nature, and in any case it is not desirable. At the same time, we have a debate on climate change and on how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. Electrification is essentially the answer almost regardless of the question. Unfortunately, the debate is solely about more use of force, not where this force will come from. Today we have a surplus of power, but when we see the plans that are ahead, I do not see how this should be implemented. We have communities that are fighting for new creations, which create values and jobs, but which are being established solely because of access to power. We have large-scale battery factories, data storage, electrification of the socket and electrification of transport, to mention some examples. This is no longer related. I have not registered one critical voice for such establishment. But we have had other discussions, including: on the establishment of foreign tables. The majority in this room have been sincerely concerned about such an establishment because of the risk of an increase in price and that this could weaken Norwegian competitiveness. Is it that the same majority is not concerned about increasing prices if the power is used for anything other than being sent abroad? It probably has a lot to do electrifying the socket, but does one really think that this won't give the prices to the mainland industry the same challenges? I hope that as much as you have rejected our proposals today, you tell municipalities and businesses, who in these days are working to set up a new activity, that these jobs may be threatened by a lack of power. All forms of energy have some kind of impact on the environment around us. The large community has shown in wind power development how far one has been willing to engage in natural interventions to produce power. Yet, with new knowledge and technology, one does not believe that our power companies will be able to find hydroelectric power projects where the benefits are greater and the interventions are smaller. I then take up the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e780	The representative of Terje Halleland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e785	The hydropower has been and is the backbone of the Norwegian power system and is currently a major part of Norwegian power supply. There is no doubt that hydropower has been the cornerstone of the development of modern Norway, and there is no doubt that hydropower will continue to be important in the future. The centre party is generally positive about the potential and potential of increasing renewable energy production in Norwegian watercourses. Over time, we have been looking at the possibilities for upgrading and expanding existing hydropower, and we are therefore in the beginning taking a positive view of this proposal. But I would like to make it clear that we are also concerned that such possible expansion must take place within specific limits and with regard to the protection values that part of the watercourses today represent. I must also stress that it cannot therefore be a question of a release in the area. However, a professional review based on several considerations should not be feared in this Chamber. In several parts of the country there are significant challenges to the risk of floods and races in sheltered watercourses, in which there is therefore no possibility of taking good and necessary protective measures. In such cases, it must be both meaningful and socio-economic to facilitate, inter alia, the provision of services. hydropower expansion. There is no doubt that technology and new methodology allow the connection of, for example, side rivers in existing hydroelectric power plants in a completely different way, with the potential for better environmental conditions than was the case in the past. This can also make it possible to preserve nature while producing more renewable energy. The centre party is therefore in favour of opening up the construction of power plants in sheltered watercourses in cases where there is no conflict with protection values and existing industries. A review of the protected watercourse plans can provide a good knowledge base for exploiting the potential for increased production of Norwegian renewable hydropower. We therefore support the proposal today. However, I believe that it should not be opened to grant any applications from power companies in such sheltered watercourses until a review has been carried out. It is therefore important to consider that any review in this area will be able to determine what kind of watercourses it is appropriate to look at that has such a degree of protection or level of conflict that it appears to be impractical to deploy power plants. In our opinion, any applications from a power company in this connection must be made after such a review.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e802	On January 14th, 40 years ago, Norway's largest civil disobedience action in the field of the environment. On January 14, 1981, 600 policemen marched up to the zero point in Stilla, not far from the Alta Centre, to carry away the thousands of Elves who had linked themselves in protest against the expansion of the Alta-Cautokeino River. Although nature conservation lost the battle for the expansion of the Alta-Kautokeino watercourse, nature conservation gained a lot in the longer term. The protection plan for watercourses, which has protected close to 400 watercourses, is one of the really great natural protection schemes that we can be proud of in Norway, and there has been a broad majority in the United Kingdom that has been behind the protective plans that have come. Not long ago, we also received a proposal from a State Council of the Progressive Party on the protection of the Pacific Ocean in the former Hordaland state. It was a very good proposal from the State Council of the Progress Party, which was unanimously voted through in the Stortinget. It was also 50 years ago that we saw the first civil disobedience actions for nature in Norway. It was also linked to a hydropower expansion – Mardøla. We have to remember the story in these cases. We will remember the importance that environmental organisations have had in their efforts to protect what can be called Norway's rainforest tour in many ways. We have an international special responsibility to take care of the watercourse nature. I am therefore pleased that there is a broad majority today who are united in rejecting the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e815	I want to start by saying that the time for the large hydroelectric power plants in Norway is definitely over, and it's been fixed many times. I am pleased with the majority who today say no to this proposal. The government has also announced an energy message. It becomes important. Obviously, there are elements in this which it is important to discuss, including: the technology that is moving forward. It is worth noting – we have been through a major wind debate – that solar technology is now coming more and more, including in Norway. It evolves very quickly. This is about making use of the overall opportunities we have in Norway for water – which is, as I said, the spine, and the power we have there is very important – but now we also have significant wind power production. Then the sun comes in significantly. Small power is also an important part of this. So I heard in Sandra Borch's posts that there may be cases where you can do both climate adaptation and renewable power generation on a small scale. I fully agree with that. We should be curious about that and look at it, but that it has to be combined in such a plan, I'm skeptical about it. What's happening now, which is very important, is an incredible digitisation of the power sector. It gives us a whole new room for action to play on. I am concerned that we are now using these possibilities as best we can in Norway. We also have a long tradition for Nordic community, cooperation and organisation of the power sector, and we should continue to develop that cooperation, as we have done in the last 25 years. We are the leaders in Europe in organizing this. Here we have so many other possibilities to take advantage of before we go in and discuss what watercourses we might be going on. It cracks into the subject base that we're getting – from the fact that it's possible to make some adjustments in already developed watercourses, to build up new ones. It cracks between 5 TWh and 30 TWh, some people say up to 50 TWh, but there's a need we don't have, so we also have to get a science base that gives us a navigation point. The energy message is an important starting point for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e826	I believe, as the proposers, that we should both maintain and develop hydropower further. It provides the basis for value creation and new industries, contributes to power-intensive industries, provides the basis for increased electrification, generates income to countries and municipalities and has a flood-reduction effect. That's why we're together, among other things. amended the tax rules on hydropower to facilitate new investments and upgrading and expansion of existing hydropower plants. At the same time, it is important to maintain a representative sample of the Norwegian watercourse nature. The size decreased as late as 2016, in the Energy Communication – Report. St. 25 for 2015–2016 – to ensure that the protection against watercourses is essentially fixed. The size of these watercourses considered that the protection values and pristineness of these watercourses are greater than the value of development. The protection plan for watercourses was a source of conflict between the major hydroelectric power plants in the 1960s and 1970s. All power expansion in nature, including hydropower, requires interference in nature. Over the last two years, we have been through a very heated debate on wind power, and there, the Progress Party and the Centre have changed their position, from being very committed to becoming very restrictive now. They, like all the other parties in this room, have changed their policies as a result of the great resistance. But one can wonder if the Progress Party and the Center Party have understood what led to that conflict initially. The proposers point out that new knowledge and technology can make better use of hydropower resources while respecting environmental considerations, and I fully agree with that, because, thanks to targeted research and development, today's projects are more gentle and effective. However, it is not possible to expand hydropower without natural interference and environmental degradation. The potential for major expansions in sheltered watercourses without significant conflict is very limited. The question of re-viewing the safety plans in the hope of finding projects with acceptable environmental impacts has been raised several times in the past. Proposals have also been made to look at flood mitigation projects. Assessments have shown that the realistic potential is sufficiently modest. Passing through all the protection plans will also be a very extensive task. I note that the proposers realise this. The protective plans consist of 390 objects and include different watercourses which together form a representative section of the watercourse nature of Norway. Very few countries have as much diversity in landscape types and wealth on water and watercourses as Norway. The development of hydropower has served us well, and the protection of watercourses has been an important part of the overall watercourse policy. On the basis of this, I do not see the need to start a review of the protected watercourse plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e842	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e847	With its attitude to this matter, the government says from itself the possibility of increasing hydropower generation, or at least an overview of what the potential could be, at a time when there is increased demand for power, renewable power, and there are not so many alternatives to it. When one then takes into account that the Council of State has been a rarely clear voice against the resistance that has long been in the debate on wind power, is my question to the Council of State: Is there new wind power on land to be the solution to increased demand for power?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e852	We do not immediately need anything massive with new power in Norway. We're heading towards a surplus of power. Until 2040, we're going to do it in the Nordic power market. But I fully agree with the representative that we have to look after that balance, because we have big plans, and there is a lot we want to do. I do not believe the solution to a situation where we have stopped a lot of wind power and vigorously tightened up that policy because of great resistance to entering into pristine nature and building in nature – for which the Progress Party has been one of the foremost defenders in that debate – is to go into sheltered watercourses. They're protected for a very good reason. We have a lot of hydropower in Norway that we can still expand, rust up, get more potential out of, but starting with entering the protected watercourses I don't think is a solution to achieve more power without much more conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e859	Our first watercourses were protected 50 years ago. We have a completely new knowledge, we have a whole new competence, and we have a whole new technology to expand the hydropower in our nature today than we had at the time. If the Council of State, which is also active in the Programme Committee of the Right, is to look at the possibilities we have for increased power generation, is this something the Vice-Chair of the Right will be opposed to?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e866	I don't quite understand. Not all hydropower expansion in Norway is protected. Something is protected, for good reason, and we have good knowledge of it. Some of the evidence is older, yes, but it's also because it's been so obvious that it was nature of great value that needed protection. So you have to think, what is the purpose? Yes, you could say that there is a technical potential of about 50 TWh in sheltered watercourses, but if you were to actually realize it, we're talking about massive interference, massive erosion of natural values. I don't think any of us in here are really for that. If you're going to start entering sheltered watercourses, you're going to have a very small potential that's feasible. In any case, it has to be treated as a concession, and there will also be requirements to provide for environmental values. The question is, how much power do you get out of it, and is it worth it? Is it worth taking that fight instead of making it possible for us to expand in other ways into something that is not protected, which I believe together we have now achieved in the budgetary agreement, with the tax rules for more hydropower?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e873	The representative Haltbrecken took the fight against the expansion of the Altavas line to income for the environmental movement. It was probably an important driving force, but I think many people disagreed with the idea of laying the church in Masi and large parts of the submerged area – to take away the reindeer industry from important pastures. It was probably a little bit more complex than that. That is probably also why the political struggle of the 1970s and 1980s ended with the fact that the NVE finally, in 1974 in the concession request, had removed large areas. But loss of nature and climate challenges are the focus, and when we have a potential of 50 TWh in areas where intervention has already taken place, it's natural that you want to look at it. With the constraints: what do you think the real potential is? It will be an important part of the discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e880	The President reminds us that the speech should be addressed to the President, not to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e885	There's a discussion about what's really the potential for picking up more power from our hydropower, and it varies very much in numbers. One thing that's quite clear is that you're in between in this debate, I think, mixing a little bit and not quite having the clarity of what are the different ways to do it. It's e.g. the difference between upgrading something and expanding something. Upgrading can be about replacing a turbine, getting more power out of what you already have, while expanding almost in all cases will mean more natural interference. You have to expand the area, use more, build more nature. So I don't think the potential is so enormous, I think we can get a little bit more out of many different things, but the time for the big watercourse expansions is probably over. That doesn't mean we shouldn't be good at rusting up what we have, exploiting where it makes sense to do it without too much natural interference. I think that's a sensible policy to get more power and at the same time take care of nature and the environment around.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e890	It is very important that we clarify the extent of the real potential, because it is a driving force in the debate. The Labour Party and I do not disagree with the restrictions that lie there, and that we should also take into account local knowledge, local resistance, possible support. Would the Council not agree that it would have been important for the debate in the future that we had clarified the extent of the actual potential?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e895	I don't think it's very difficult to find that information. What was the point of my answer instead was that we also have to clean up the concepts around what is what. To say that there's a potential for that and so much: what's the potential for expanding, what's the potential for upgrading, how much does it get? The numbers are easily available, state power has good numbers on this, NVE has good numbers on this, and it's also pretty clear where what is the potential within the different ways of doing this. I fully agree that some facts at the bottom are important, but I think it would be very special if we now, after we have almost agreed that we should not have wind power anywhere – to put it a little on the head, that's how this debate has evolved – had said that we should solve it by going into something that has been protected, or that has great natural value, and believe that this is not going to be very exhilarating and create a lot of conflict. I don't think that's a way forward. I think the policy we have today makes sense. I think we should respect that we have a balance for different reasons, and then we pick it up where it's possible to do it without too much interference.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e902	I'll do something as unfamiliar as saying a thousand thanks to the Council of State for an unusually good post. I believe that if I had still been the head of the Nature Conservation Association, I would have offered her a membership in the organisation on the spot. I think I could have said almost every word of what the Council said in its statement. It is good to hear such a defence of the protection of nature that we have, after all, achieved in Norway. What I want to ask is, we have today given many old hydropower concessions at a time when environmental requirements were almost absent. It's now a revision of these concession terms, so I want to hear the council tell you a little bit about how the government is putting up the work to get more done to revise the old hydropower concessions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e912	Thank you for that compliment – if I am allowed to say so. I appreciate it. I mean what I'm saying, but there's also a different reason than that the natural values have their own value – which they have – to that I say what I'm saying. The way I've been following the energy debate in the last few years, and as I imagine it's going to evolve, I think we're pretty out of the question, for example. to electrify our entire society and to be able to do this in a way that does not create great tears and great conflict – if we cannot agree on any important principles, that we must also balance the considerations here and maintain important values on both sides. That is also a reason why I think we should support the policy we have had. In terms of the terms and conditions audits, I think it's a very important act. It has been agreed that a certain degree of loss of power generation is to be accepted in order to improve environmental values, for that is good reason to do in several of the old concessions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e921	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e941	A little over five years ago we cheered in Paris. The world's Environment Ministers agreed on a climate agreement that aims to implement a large cut in greenhouse gas emissions – cut that means that we not only limit the global temperature increase to 2 degrees, but so great that we can keep it below 1.5 degrees. It may sound immaterial with a 1.5 or 2 degree increase in temperature. Mathematically, the difference is small, but for the Earth half the degree is a huge difference. With 1.5 degree heating, the Arctic will be ice-free only once every 100 years, while with 2 degree heating it will be possible to do so every decade. With 1.5 degrees of heating, we can limit the extreme heat, while such cases will occur twice as often if the global temperature increases by 2 degrees. The coral reefs will disappear if we heat the earth by 2 degrees, while they will still exist to a degree with 1.5 degrees heating. There are many of these examples of the difference between the two scenarios. That's why it's a big advantage if we can stay below 1.5 degrees. Researchers at the CICERO Climate Research Centres here in Norway estimate that if we continue to release greenhouse gas emissions at today's level, the world in 2030 will have emitted enough CO 2 to allow the global temperature increase to exceed the Paris Agreement's objective of limiting heating to 1.5 degrees. And DNV GL estimates in its report Energy Transition Outlook 2020 that we will have used up the CO 2 budget already in 2028. Before Christmas, the government announced a 25th concession round. Normally it takes many years from a call to find and put a field into operation. For the fields we're talking about here, production can start well after 2030. So the emissions from both the production and consumption of the oil and the gas that are now to be picked up from the 25th concession round will be able to come in a period where we are very close by spending our carbon budget on the 1.5 degree goal – or, if something has gone wrong, we have already used it up, and we are discussing new targets for how to stop an escalating climate crisis. Therefore, the oil and gas production that the government sees from the fields to come as a result of the 25th concession round is in direct conflict with the objectives of the Paris Agreement to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees. The climate impacts of the 25th concession round should be enough to cancel the call, but in addition we also have the economic aspects. I am convinced that both the Minister of Oil and Energy and I share an intense hope that the world will achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement and implement the necessary emission cuts. And if that happens, what is the economic value of the oil and gas from the 25th concession round? Will there be enough buyers that the community will make money on it, or will it be a financial loss for us? Of the blocks announced in the 25th concession round, 125 are in the Barents Sea. In its opinion on this concession round, the Environment Directorate asked for a climate risk analysis of the concession round before it was published – both for the concession round as a whole and subsequently for each block to be published, i.e. an assessment of the economic risk we are taking by expanding oil platforms in this area. In the hearing opinion, the directorate wrote: ‘The Environment Directorate will also recall the Climate Risk Committee’s recommendation that climate risk be assessed and made visible by scenario analysis and stress testing in decision-making processes in both the private and public sectors. The selection has highlighted in particular the importance of good analyses of climate risks in the petroleum sector. In the light of the 1.5 degree Paris Agreement target, stress should be tested with a scenario where greenhouse gas emissions are halved by 2030 and when the net zero emissions of CO 2 around 2050 are reached.» The Environment Directorate further recommends that the demand risk associated with the climate targets be assessed before the new blocks were released in the 25th concession round. In an answer to me last year on this topic, the Minister of Oil and Energy wrote: ‘In line with established sectoral roles and responsibilities and long-term practices, it is those of the industry that assesses and carries out activities in the petroleum sector, including assessing future oil and gas prices. I therefore believe that it will be of limited interest with its own climate risk analyses at concession rounds. The important thing is that in the future companies will also take into account the entire risk profile when, if appropriate. activity shall be decided. The price risk associated with future climate action is part of this risk picture.» One of the questions I hope we can raise today is whether the Council of State will demand such an assessment of climate risk in future development plans – a stress test where the economy in development is seen in the light of the Paris agreement's objective to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 degrees. We are also going to notice the climate change committee that came up with its position last year, and that consisted of, among other things. former Minister for Climate and Environment from Right, Vidar Helgesen, as well as a representative from Right, Stefan Heggelund. Both advocated stress testing of climate risks for planning and deployment of operations. The committee considers that the licensing plan for development and operation should include a realistic climate stress test of the socio-economic profitability of the development of the specific field. The starting point for the stress test should be scenarios for oil, gas and CO 2 pricing paths, including a scenario based on the ambitions of the Paris Agreement. And if such socio-economic profitability is not likely, said the sample, then it is recommended that the projects not be approved. The majority of the Climate Change Committee also pointed out that the climate risk in the coming years has been significantly increased as a result of the tax changes that the majority of population unfortunately adopted before the summer of 2020. Last autumn it was also known that the Ministry of Oil and Energy had received a new economic assessment of the petroleum activity in the Barents Sea which they chose not to inform the Storting about in the treatment of the opening of the Barents Sea south-east in their time. The review showed that oil drilling in the Barents Sea did not have to be as profitable as the ministry had given the impression, and that oil drilling would actually be unprofitable for an oil price of less than $84. This matter is now to be dealt with in the control committee, but the oil price is today about $55 barrel – that is almost $20 below what was the profitability criterion. Then it raises the question of the 125 blocks in the 25th concession round that is in the Barents Sea, is ever going to be profitable. In any case, the previously hidden profitability report points to the need to make thorough assessments of the profitability of the Norwegian base, especially in the Barents Sea, in addition to the assessments that need to be made to see whether oil drilling in the future, at the government's request, is in line with the Paris Agreement's objective of keeping the temperature increase below 1.5 degrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e991	The climate challenge is the greatest challenge of our time. The task we're facing is enormous. In climate policy, there are rarely simple solutions or two lines under the answer. The challenges are complex, and often there are difficult balances between different considerations. The results of emissions reduction efforts are the sum of policies and actions in many areas. This also applies in the sector for which I am responsible, namely the oil and gas business on Norwegian base and the energy supply. Energy and climate are often two sides of the same coin, and the challenges are great. The combustion of coal, oil and gas emits large amounts of greenhouse gases, creating climate change in turn. The world consumption of these energy sources therefore has to be completely reduced. At this point, I and the representative Haltbrecken fully agree. On the other hand, we quickly distinguish layers when SV again comes with simple answers to what I think are complex problems, when they serve headings and numbers without context and explanation. It is a serious simplification to claim that Norwegian oil and gas extraction and the 25th concession round are in direct conflict with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. The world's population is increasing, and energy poverty is still widespread. This is a question I know that the representative Haltbrecken and SV are concerned about. SV has always borne the tab high for solidarity with poorer countries, and they have fought for aid and development. The reality is that energy use and wealth are linked. Increased wealth, better health care, education, transport systems, better housing and living conditions – all related to energy supply. Energy is and will become the very lifeblood of the world economy. This energy system is enormously comprehensive and complicated. It consists of large, expensive and long-term infrastructure adapted to today's energy system. The reality is that coal today covers 27 pst. of the world's energy needs. Oil and gas cover a total of 57 pst. Of the remainder, cover 6 pst. by hydropower, 5 pst. from other renewable sources and 4 pst. by nuclear power. I believe that also the representative Haltbrecken and SV in the inner understand that it will take time to change such a system, and that it will lead to considerable costs. In fact, the energy transition, i.e. the rotation from coal, oil and gas to renewable energy, takes place at different rates and faces different barriers in the world's countries. I am not saying any of this as an excuse or justification for Norwegian oil and gas policy. The need to limit emissions is urgent. The Paris Agreement is incredibly important to limit climate change, and government policy requires us to meet our commitments. This also applies to energy supply and the oil and gas industry. I repeat this message because the big picture actually matters, and Norwegian climate and energy policy must be adapted to the countries around us. Climate policy is not a Norwegian championship, but an international cooperation. With this backstop, the government is leading a responsible and predictable petroleum policy to meet the climate challenges. Norwegian oil and gas contribute to the coverage of 2-3 pst. of the needs of the world. This is energy traded in global markets, where demand can be met by other oil and gas producers. Some claim that unilateral closure of Norwegian oil and gas production is a good climate action. I really disagree with that. Today's petroleum policy was also the basis for reporting our objectives under the Paris Agreement, and Norway, together with the EU, has the most ambitious climate policy in the world. We are taking a broad range of measures, both to reduce emissions now and to develop future solutions, such as Longships, on which we have just had a good debate. There are no other oil producing countries that have done so much to reduce demand for the same products as Norway has done. Norwegian petroleum activity is already subject to a strict use of the instrument to limit emissions to air from the production activity – significantly more stringent than in other petroleum producing countries. Quota duty and CO 2 tax are the main instruments of the Norwegian climate policy. The government also announced in the Climate Change Communication that we will increase the CO 2 tax further, so that the sum of the fees and climate allowances will be NOK 2000 in 2030. This gives predictability to industry and further incentives to cut emissions from production. The government will also come back to Stortinget with a follow-up to the decision via the tax package to set a target of 50 pst. reduction of emissions from production by 2030. We have been conducting a proper petroleum activity in all of our seas for more than 40 years. We know that we can conduct safe and secure search, expansion and operation. The government is therefore continuing a stable and long-term petroleum policy, which should also contribute to the search. The concession awards are a support bar in this. The numbered rounds, including the 25th concession rounds, comprise the lesser known search areas on the Norwegian pedestal. Such search areas are not left on a Norwegian base, as most of the available search areas were opened several decades ago. Of course, browsing is fundamental to making new profitable findings. Without searching, there will be no new resources, and in that case, you will be heading towards a slow winding-up where you will reap from the findings that have already been made. This context is evident, and therefore this part of Norwegian petroleum policy also has broad support in the Stortinget. All concession rounds are conducted in line with established petroleum policy and within the limits laid down by the Storting. 25th concession round has been announced for a long time. In the Granavolden platform, the government parties made it clear that the round was to take place after the revision of the Barents Sea and Lofoten management plan had been completed. A broad majority of the Stortinget approved the management plan in June 2020. The majority also requested that the 25th concession round be carried out as soon as possible. The government is now following up on this. Proposals for area to be published in the 25th concession round were sent out at public consultation. The government’s proposals were in line with established practices in the framework of the updated management plan. The hearing opinions were evaluated and the 25th concession round was announced on 19 November last year. The expected allocation is the second quarter of 2021. I understand that the representative, on the basis of his political conviction, will appear as almost surprised that this is happening. But there's no reason at all. The representative Haltbrecken and SV have gone from approving field expansions and opening new sea areas when they were in government, to becoming a batch that wants to end Norwegian petroleum industry as soon as possible for all practical purposes. That SV wants to wind up Norwegian oil and gas industries is a perfectly legitimate political position. I should almost want them to say it even more clearly. Instead, we are constantly having shadow debates about elements of petroleum policy that are really about the overall objective, which is to wind up the business. Then we can also have a debate on the consequences of such a policy. The policy of the halt break means that we will lose tens of thousands of profitable jobs, that we will see competence, capital and technology disappear out of the country, and that large revenues for our common well-being will be gone. For the world's climate problems, there will be no difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1027	I want to refer to the line exchange I had with the Council of State here earlier today where I might come up with it someone would say is a nasty embrace, and said that I could have said almost every word of what she said in the debate on watercourse protection. I can reassure the Council of State that I could not have done that after her previous posts. We are facing a major challenge – I know that the Council of State agrees with us. We need to convert Norwegian business to meet the challenges we face. We also know that there are great opportunities to create a number of jobs in Norway based among others. environmental technologies that contribute to the reduction of emissions. We now see it along the coast, where zero-emission technology is being developed in Norwegian shipyards for shipping. We also see strong competition between several parts and regions of Norway to establish battery plants. But the challenge we face with the climate crisis means that we need to think again also in the case of Norwegian oil and gas activities. If we're going to reach the climate targets the world has set to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 degrees, there are some physical laws that say how much CO 2 we can emit in the future and still be able to stay below this goal. I do not feel that I was completely able to answer the challenge I have given the Council of State on what assumptions the government is making in the 25th concession round, when several researchers say that our CO 2 budget could have been used up before the fields planned for the 25th concession round come into operation. There won't be room in the atmosphere of the CO 2 that they're generating from neither production nor consumption if we're still going to stay below the 1.5 degree mark. I hope that the Council of State can go a little closer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1047	I'll start by saying that I think I'm as happy as the representative Haltbrecken that he couldn't give me the same embrace here as he could in the previous debate we had. I'm glad. But otherwise, the representative talked about many things that I very much agree with, how we now see that there is a lot of exciting happening all around Norway to develop new industry and find new solutions that take us into the green shift, and that builds up under the fact that we're going to be able to live on something in the future, but we're not going to have the same emissions as we've had to. Longships are a very good example of that. The hydrogen bet, which this government has also raised several hacks, is another example of that. We see everything that happens in green shipping, which is based on proud traditions and great competence that we have in Norway in the maritime. We can take a leading role internationally also here and build something that the rest of the world needs. This is not least what is happening in transport policy. View the electric car policy in Norway, as I was in my post, as an example of how we have strongly supported the development of something that affects in many ways our main export product, which is oil. Let's do it because it's right. But it's still going to be room and need for oil and gas, also into the future where we're going to reach the 1.5 degree goal. The question is where it will come from. We're not going to produce oil and gas in Norway at any price we produce because it's profitable. And then we set many climate requirements for the industry here in Norway because we think it's going to make them more rusty to meet that future, to be able to be with and deliver oil and gas in a future where it's going to be expensive to pollute, and where there's going to be strict emission requirements. I have good faith that we'll get it done. Then the representative has also asked more questions about this with climate risk and how we view it. I believe that in many ways this debate is also a little bit to open doors, because it creates the impression that this is something you don't do today – this is none of the companies that think about, they just walk on and invest billions of dollars without taking in or being aware that we're also going to achieve some goals in the world, that we're going to cut emissions. That's not true. The companies are looking carefully at this. For example, they require: that there will be higher CO 2 charges, higher climate quota charges in the future. It's important for them, because they don't want to produce unprofitable, just like we don't want them to produce unprofitable. So climate risk is already largely part of this assessment. But it's pretty pointless to do that assessment before you find anything, and a concession round is just calling out areas to look for. After all, you have to find something before you can calculate what is the profitability of expected development even for the carbon price. That is why I feel that debate is a little strange and does not fully take into account the reality that oil and gas companies are actually in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1061	It may not come as a surprise to the Council of State that I believe that the oil companies are not sufficiently addressing the challenge we are facing. For example, in February last year Equinor put the plans for the expansion of the Oscar Wisting field in the drawer because the profitability was too low. It was before the coronary pandemic struck the country with violent force. Then the oil companies, well-accompanied by the Norwegian oil and gas association, got through an oil tax package in Stortinget, where the majority gave huge tax relief to the oil companies that made the previously unprofitable expansion of Oscar Wisting come back from Equinor, and which can now be applied for. A tax package has been created that has made a previous expansion profitable, at least for the oil company. The government has announced that during the year they will provide an energy message to look at the whole of Norwegian energy policy. We're looking forward to that. What I hope the government will do in that energy message is to explain which carbon budget they operate within, when they look at a still large-scale new investment in Norwegian oil and gas business. I am not thinking about the carbon budget primarily related to the Norwegian climate target, but to the world as a whole. I also hope that the government in that message will take on board what the Climate Change Committee proposed, including. two central members of the Right present, requiring a stress test, an economic assessment of the individual extensions in view of the objectives of the Paris Agreement to limit the temperature increase to a maximum of 1,5 degrees. Otherwise, I would like to thank the Council of State for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1072	I would also like to start by thanking you for the debate. This is an incredibly important debate. Oil and gas industries are Norway's largest and most important industries. It stands for enormous value creation, employs hundreds of thousands of people and is a very, very important part of our country's ability to have the welfare society that we have. But, of course, we also need to build on it for the future. I have to say that I am very proud of the Norwegian oil and gas industry, for show me the oil and gas industry from another country that has similar targets, or that speaks similarly warmly about the need to reduce its own emissions, to be involved in the transition, to build something new on what they are already good at, which can be part of the future that we know lies ahead of us. Norwegian oil and gas production is going to be phased out – regardless of the kind of debate we have in this room. It is not a renewable resource. It has a limited life span in any case. I can assure the representative at least. But I'm concerned that it has to happen in a way that's good for this country. That is why I am in charge of the oil and gas policy that I stand for, and I believe that we too can be proud with good reason that we can be credible in talking about our ambitious climate policy at the same time. With regard to the tax package, I would like to say that last year's situation was quite extraordinary. Project after project stopped on socket. It wasn't because they suddenly weren't profitable, but it was because of the pandemic and everything that happened, with sudden drastic falls in demand for oil and gas and full stop. It was quite right, in my opinion, by the Stortinget to set up for that industry, as they set up for many other industries in meeting the pandemic. We would risk losing very important environments of competence, many, many jobs and weaken Norway's ability to build on in the future, when we are out of crisis. That tax package is delimited. That's not true at all, the picture that the representative is talking about, with unprofitability, and that these projects are being pushed through because of the tax package. That doesn't match the picture we have in the department. We have the same requirements now that we had before. So I'm not worried about it. I think we are going to see good projects carried out on a Norwegian base, which would have been carried out in normal circumstances, but which were prevented because of what happened around the pandemic. Then we've made sure that it doesn't happen, which also in return has kept many people working and prevented us from losing many more jobs than we would otherwise have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1085	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1103	I want to start by saying how impressed I am by the amazing job the employees of the schools and kindergartens around the country do. I see and hear about the effort that all the good employees in School-Norway are now doing – how they are working on bombing to meet new demands, planning for quarantine and bachelors home school and physical education. The employees of schools and kindergartens are an important part of the first line — some of our most important heroes in this crisis. From the Workers' Party, I would like to say clearly: we see and recognise the enormous work they do. I see it's not on the will to fight, but I understand it's exhausting. Because I am seriously concerned about the reports we get from schools and kindergartens around the country. Lack of temporary budgets and different interpretations of legislation are reported. There's a lot of work pressure. Teachers who were worn out already for the fall holiday are close to exhaustion now after the Christmas holidays. There's growing sick leave. We saw it now especially in kindergartens, but also in schools, and unfortunately I have heard about teachers who have already quit. The work from this spring is cancelled, but already overworked teachers are still told to do free work on tighter and tighter budgets. The cancellation of the service is now confirmed by the Prime Minister who has also stopped using this word. One might well understand that it was unmusical to continue to invite to do when one did not even meet up. The short-lived shipper roof we saw in ours has become a long-lasting, intense work pressure for both teachers, employees and students. That's why I think it's time to call a spade a spade. In Denmark, they now call them emergency education in the last year. The Danes are known for using strong and caricious words. The Prime Minister often says that she might not use exactly those words, but I think there is an exceptional state in School-Norway. Treating the last year that normally gets tricked. I think it's still talking too much as if this is normal. Large-scale projects on school development are not interrupted, and one continues to a large extent the introduction of the subject of vocational renewal. What is now clear is that we must plan for this situation to last for the school year. That is why my goal of this interpellation is also to raise my eyes and invite the Stortinget to a debate on the steps we have to take to ensure that the state of emergency that will last at least in the summer will be living with for both employees, children and students. The last few days' discussion about crisis packages for schools and kindergartens shows that we may not agree on that right here today. I am concerned that this discussion should also not obscure important discussions on better infectious diseases, the need for clearer legislation, changes in the traffic light system, opportunities for home offices, the need for increased resources and what we need to do to improve digital education. My claim is that we too are politically stumbled from one crisis to another too. The question now is whether we have learned from in spring and autumn, and whether we are able to grip and adjust the course and avoid doing the same mistakes again. The red level in secondary and secondary schools in January is a good example of this. Once again, school employees were called up for the shortest possible period of time and without the additional work and the need for additional resources being compensated. The government presented a red level at 0 p.m. 18 a Sunday evening, which was supposed to work from Monday morning. Eight. Fourteen hours to plan is short time even if one is prepared. There was not much sleep on the principals, teachers and employees who had to create a new schedule in one night. For red level also means a completely different way of organizing school day. There are smaller cohorts, fixed classrooms and 1 meter distance for both students and employees. There is simply more work, more digital education and increased labour pressure. Therefore, I believe that the red level must also mean increasing resources for the schools. That the government did not leave one penny on the table when we know that it costs and requires more, was wrong. It can't go on like that. Schools and kindergartens are already on the verge. Our job now is to ensure a more stable foundation for the extraordinary school we know it will be until the summer vacation. And this is not black paint, but the reality out there, where the employees do their best, but experience not to stretch to. One does not extend to those children who need community school and kindergarten. In the Facebook group ‘Korona Skills for Digital Teachers’ – which was created in eagerness to share and help each other when the school shuts down – not only digital tips are now shared, but one also discusses what is needed to help you in school life. Better protection of infection and more resources are requested and questions are asked about the introduction of new curricula should be paused. And perhaps most important of all: more clearly, national leaders, more people and resources are demanded – and what the teacher Monica described on Facebook that she needs: ‘Time! Time for everything I'm going to reach. To correct. To guide. To plan. To calm down. To be a wife and mother. Free! Free from everything that weighs. Free from anxiety that I bring with me infection from school home to grandmother of 92. Free from trade renewal. Free from dungeon.’» We now see that several kindergartens report that from the fall holiday last year, the temporary budget had already been used up. Schools say they don't have the money to put in temporary workers. VG reported that 1,400 specialised educators were used as temporary workers rather than special education, and that 14,000 primary school students had reduced special education. Nav’s fresh figures show that the medically reported sick leave in kindergartens has increased by a total of 14 p.p. and that the self-reported sick leave has increased accordingly. That's what reality is out there. The work pressure in schools and kindergartens is red. It's been a long time. Now we also see that there are consequences. VG told this week that 50 pst. of those who work at school, consider looking away or changing jobs. I've heard a lot of stories about people who have already quit, who are now applying for other jobs, and it comes to the top of the growing teaching shortage we have now. We can't stand by and watch. The question now is whether we have learned from in the spring and in the autumn, and whether we are able to seize. I believe that there is a great need for clearer legislation and changes in the traffic light system. More concrete steps are needed in the system and to clarify what distinguishes the different levels. I also hope that the supervisors can be clearer about the differences, and that one cleans up this. The consequence now is that one sees that there are big differences in how this is interpreted. I've heard a lot of employees describe a new level that really doesn't exist, an orange level, which is in the middle of yellow and red – a new expression that has grown up just in this uncertainty. We have seen that the government has presented a regulation that was at the hearing before Christmas, with a yellow level with home school. It's almost going to be red. I'm at least very concerned that there are clear distinctions between the different levels, and clearly when one does what. I have also received many specific concerns from those who work in adult education. They are now following the tutor of high school. I think it's time for them to get their own supervisor. Adult training has an entirely separate situation. There's a special group of students who require their own solutions, especially when we see the infection that has been in some of these environments. I hope the Council of State can answer whether this is something you have evaluated or will look at. We also need to improve the level of infection protection, which I get a lot of feedback about. The employees are in the middle of the contagion. Extremely many teachers I'm talking to are worried. It's a paradox that a teacher has to have almost zero close contacts in private, but at work 50, 100, yes almost 200 people. Should kindergartens and schools continue to be able to open up in the summer, employees will not be exposed to or contribute to increased infection. I think this has to be important for the vaccination. That is why I have supported the call from the Education Association for this to be assessed. I am not now inviting you to a crass debate on the vaccine order, but I would like to hear the Council's assessments on this – whether when she and the government think employees in schools and kindergartens should be included in the vaccine priority list. I also look forward to the response of the Institute of Public Health to the challenge of the Federation of Education. Part of this is that one must also discuss the possibility of home offices and how to better manage risk groups. There is also a need for increased resources, and I think there is a need to look specifically at this with temporary workers and overtime work. We know that the employees have worked more, we know that they have not been compensated, and we know that they have not been compensated. This needs to be addressed if no more are to leave the profession, and I hope that the Council of State can sit down with the KS and the other parties and see what she can do to ensure this in a better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1152	I would like to start by thanking the representative for raising this issue on the Stortinge agenda. I think it is very good that we are discussing this from the country's main pulpit, and I hope that it can in itself contribute to the situation in schools and also in kindergartens getting even more attention around. Because there is no doubt that there is a discrepancy between the feedback we get from the local government sector and the descriptions we get from many people who work in school. I think it's important that we get into this properly and see if there's such a big difference in the reality experience, and what it should have consequences for the policy. But I don't think it's hard for any of us to understand that it's both been and has been very demanding for employees in kindergartens and schools after the outbreak of the pandemic. I also want to add that there are many professional groups that have been in a very special situation since March, but those who work in schools and kindergartens, who work closely on children and young people, and who have to face up to work every single day in order to carry out their tasks, are in a very special situation and in a very big pressure. And I would like to repeat what I have said before, that employees in kindergartens and schools have made a formidable effort. They have been in the job, they have given care, comfort, helped children and students into the game and not least given professional training. In addition, they have done a great job of enforcing the rules on infectious diseases. I think there are a lot of people there who, like many of us, have become infectious protection experts in a short time. Before the Christmas holidays, and even now after Christmas, we have had quite a few outbreaks in schools despite a rather high level of infection, and we had a declining trend in the infection among children and young people despite open schools and kindergartens. It shows, of course, that the rules on the protection of infection are being respected and that they are working. I also want to highlight the point that Norway has kept schools and kindergartens open and had a relatively normal operation to a greater extent than many other countries, and I think the whole sector can be very proud of that. None of us were able to predict at the beginning of March last year what these last ten months would be like. The disease situation around the country has been and is varying. In some places there have been some large local outbreaks, while elsewhere there has been a more uniform infection pressure, and there are still places in the country that have almost not been infected. With the help of the health authorities, we received guidance on infectious diseases in kindergarten, school and SFOs. In May, these guides were revised, and a traffic light model with green, yellow and red levels was introduced, indicating the level of risk-mitigation measures to be followed by kindergartens and schools. This traffic light model was intended, inter alia, to: contribute to more predictability of kindergartens and schools, in addition to taking into account any increase in local infection. After the introduction of this model, only minor adjustments have been made in the supervisors. I also want to say that throughout this time we have had very regular meetings with all the organisations and with the KS, and we have always explicitly asked for feedback from the supervisors. Sometimes they have been adjusted on the basis of these feedback, but the main message has been that the traffic light model is working well. This does not mean that everything is perfect, and that there are no challenges, but the impression conveyed via the trade unions is that the model has worked well. Children’s and school owners must also have contingency plans so that they can quickly switch between the different levels of infectious disease supervisors, but of course it will always take some time to change from one level to another. We've also been clear that the times we've adopted the type of shift, it's quite possible for schools to spend time adapting to each other. Until 4 January, we were nationally at the yellow level of action in kindergartens and schools, and then it was up to local authorities to assess whether to increase to red. So far, it has not been the case that we should have kindergartens and schools at the green level of action at national level. When we set the action level to red for all secondary schools and higher education on 4 January, it was because the infection was increasing. There were many who had traveled in connection with Christmas, and the situation was inconceivable in many places in the country. Now the situation is different, and we've luckily been able to go back to the yellow level. That message went out on Monday. We said that it was to be implemented not earlier than Wednesday, but that one could also use the whole week to change. However, municipalities with high levels of infection should consider maintaining the red response level for upper secondary, secondary and, where appropriate, secondary levels. We have good experience of the reduction of infection in municipalities that have driven at the level of red measures, and that, therefore, infection is quickly controlled and can go back to the level of yellow measures. Infective measures affecting children and young people shall be necessary and proportionate and as far as possible adversely affect their daily lives. We know more and more about how important it is for children and young people to be present at school and in kindergarten. It is therefore important that the measures taken to slow down and avoid infection should be minimised in children and young people. I am particularly concerned that we need to protect the very most vulnerable, and they should always be assessed for a local offer in kindergarten and school, even if there is a reduced residence time. But I also have to say that I have a great deal of understanding that employees at school and kindergarten are concerned about getting infected or infecting others, and I can assure you that we are working closely with the health authorities on the safety of employees, children and students. We constantly follow up on new knowledge about the virus. The infectious agents have just been developed with a view to keeping kindergartens and schools open in a proper manner, even in the event of increased infection. For the time being, the health authorities have not recommended the use of infective equipment such as mouthbands in schools and kindergartens, but if there are any changes to the recommendations or other infectious measures other than those we have today, I will, of course, immediately facilitate their use. It is neither on money nor on the will of the government. But until most of us are vaccinated, it's important that we follow the advice that applies to infectious diseases, both in the field of leisure and at work. Being at home when we're sick keeps as much distance as possible from others and wash your hands thoroughly and often are still the best measures to control the infection. Home Offices for teachers when they are not teaching can also be a sensible measure of infection protection. It may need to be resolved locally and in cooperation with the social partners, but I have stressed several times that there are measures that should be taken to reduce the risk of infection between adults at school. I also know that many people are tired, and we consider several measures. We have e.g. The work on how teacher and lecturer students can be an important contribution to meeting the need for temporary leave in school, and I know that for example. The municipality of Bergen has been very good at putting this into use. As far as the rest of the legislation is concerned, it has been largely determined by the first temporary rules for kindergarten and school in place in the spring of 2020. Before Christmas, the Ministry of Knowledge had a proposal to open up more home training at a yellow level. There were differing views on this proposal. I have been committed to finding solutions that take care of more concerns at the same time and provide a clear and predictable framework. I have therefore met with and asked for input from the central actors in the field of this topic. But we're not going to hide that there are obviously some dilemmas here. There will be challenges in balancing the safety of employees and the need for our young people to have a closer follow-up and physical presence at school. We're doing the best we can to be able to reconcile and take into account both of these things at the same time, and that's what we're trying to do with this proposal as well. A little more flexibility in the use of home training, even where you run the school on a yellow level, I hope I can help reduce stress and stress and give more room for manoeuvre for each school to find good solutions that are suitable for the teachers, but not least provide a good offer for the students. So it's important for me to put that code in place. It has also been very important to have close contact with the sectors, including in particular. through regular meetings with kindergarten and school owners, employees’ organisations and also the Student Organisation. As far as the financial framework is concerned, the government has shown that the local government sector is to be compensated for additional and minor income associated with the outbreak of the virus. For 2020, the local government sector has been compensated for by 18.7 billion. kr justified by the outbreak of the virus and for the first half of 2021 the Stortinget has granted 8.6 billion. kr to the local government sector, justified by the economic consequences of the outbreak of the virus. In addition, there are a number of specific schemes in the school sector, for example: support for digital equipment, additional support for the provision of vulnerable children, etc. In a situation where there is a high level of exceptional expenditure due to the outbreak of the virus and related infectious diseases measures, it is important that municipalities and county councils also provide financial facilities for schools and kindergartens to continue to provide good services. I can assure the representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg that I and the government are doing what we can to ensure that the rights of children and young people are respected, while at the same time it is safe to work in kindergarten, school and SFO. I hope that I have managed to deal with most of the issues raised by the representative. If not, I will certainly have another opportunity in the debate to discuss several of the issues that have been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1190	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer and for the fact that we are doing this discussion. It's good we have more time, because there's a lot of detail in this. Some of the things I'm going to challenge the Council of State in the further discussion are the words we're going to use to describe the situation the schools and kindergartens are now in. Many of the employees I have spoken to experience that a political – including us, as their political leaders – does not recognise the challenges they face. I myself believe that we should call this an exceptional situation and an exceptional school. Much of the political discussion seems to me to be characterized by the fact that one later a little bit as if this is a normal one. I would like to challenge the Council of State on her thoughts about this, what we think about it, and what we call it. I agree that our goal is to ensure and facilitate that schools and kindergartens remain open. The Council of State says there is a discrepancy in the discussion about the need for resources. I'd rather say that a living on slightly different planets, and I feel that the greatest distance is between the government's claims and the reality and reality out there. I will now challenge the Council of State in particular that it is she and the government who have the greatest responsibility for that distance and the so-called discrepancy. Now one relies on and boasts of estimates and the need in October. We're now in a completely different situation. I'm excited when you can expect new estimates. I'm curious if one of you is now working on new computations. Melby introduced red levels in all secondary and secondary schools without providing more resources. One knew that it required more, but did not put up with the money you are talking about so hotly. There came a crisis package on 29 January. Can one now say that there are more resources coming? I am also a little impatient about some of the clarifications you have said to come in the spring, and as the council says she is working with. I hope you can say something more about when you realize there's going to be a clarification around the exam. I would like the Council of State now to say something about what she thinks about the pace of vocational renewal and school development, when one now sees and knows that this situation is going to last, that the state of emergency is going to last at least until the summer vacation. At least I haven't seen the Council of State comment that it's going to be just out in the spring. Finally, I hope that the Council of State will also have time to discuss what I said about adult education. It is a small part of the whole education system and has been easy to forget, but the question is whether they should get their own supervisor, especially directed towards their challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1203	When I used the concept of discrepancy, it was primarily about the inequality in what I experience being described from the classroom versus the municipalities – that is, not between the reality we describe, and what the teachers describe, but between the municipalities describe to us, and the teachers, principals and others describe. We've been all the time worried about whether the calculations we've made with the KS have been good enough in the field of school and kindergarten. During the whole fall, I was very afraid that many people would stop using extra funds, because the opposition was constantly questioning whether that money would come out. That is why I am also concerned about whether it has been under-reported how much school and kindergarten needs actually are. So when the government was going to present its supplementary proposal to the municipalities in November, we added another billion kroner to what KS working group had said was the need for the first six months, mainly based on the need for school, kindergarten and health. We have also been clear all along that if it turns out that the needs are greater than what we planned for the harvest, we will, of course, set up with more money. But it's not that when we calculated the need for the harvest, we saw away that it could be red. That was among the factors that we figured out, and that's one of the reasons why we took 8.6 billion. Extra kroner. I fully agree that there is no need to pretend that things are normal, so I have not tried to do that either. I have probably used up to several times the term crisis. We're in a pandemic. Sometimes I think we should be proud that we're at all doing things to keep schools and kindergartens open, and we can't expect to get to everything. For example, with regard to the introduction of the innovation, which the teacher organisations were very concerned about doing despite the pandemic, we have also said that of course we do not expect everything to be introduced to the point and the point and in a new way this year. We actually have to give that kind of slack to those in the classroom. In the case of clarifications during the spring, we're going to come back quickly with the explanation of the exam. There we have given a clear mission to the Education Directorate, which assesses the vulnerability of the system and what can be implemented. When it comes to adult education, it's definitely a topic that I think we should spend more time on. The reason why there has not been a separate supervisor is that adult training is organised very differently in different municipalities. Therefore, adult education is not linked to the secondary school supervisor either. It is up to the municipalities to decide how to treat adult education, based on how it is in the municipality. If there is a need for a separate supervisor, I believe we can come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1216	There is no doubt that by 2020 and the beginning of 2021 – which all hope would be so much better – has been challenging. It's just talking to teachers and school leaders, and they'll tell you how challenging it is to have to make changes all the time when the infection situation is so inconclusive. So I'm very happy that we're going to discuss this well today, and I'm happy for this interpellation. It's the teachers who stand on the front line, and who each day bear the responsibility for the priorities we do in this room. The priority has been that children and young people should be protected as much as possible, and that we want to keep schools open. That's been the priority. Every time the rules on infectious diseases have been facilitated, children and young people have been asked to come first. It is also known that doing so will lead to increased costs for schools and municipalities. That is exactly why I am very pleased that the Council of State has been clear all the way – even here today – that those costs should be borne. I think that's a reason why you can now read in Education News that 60 pst. have gained greater respect for teachers during the pandemic, and that very many are also satisfied with how schools and kindergartens have organized themselves in a new everyday life. It's because you've worked hard to get it done. When the pandemic came, it was very difficult to know what kind of extra costs you have. And the most natural way to think about it is to get together with the parties, with the KS, and do a thorough calculation. It was the calculations that led to more than 20 billion in 2020. Extra kr and that this year you have granted 8.6 billion. Extra kroner. That's more than you first estimated. Whether you've used more than 8.6 billion. NOK the first weeks now in January, I have not seen any math on it. But I expect, as the Council of State said, that you do these calculations all the time, and that if it costs more, it should be covered. I agree that there is a difference in reality, because once you have increased transfers from the state, which KS agrees to cover the additional expenses, it is very alarming for us here to hear teachers and schools tell you that the money does not reach. It is also quite alarming that the corona is sometimes used in some municipalities – as I understand it – a bit like an excuse for once again kissing in the school budget. These include: seen in cities like Bodø, Tromsø, Trondheim and Oslo, where you now cut. If the municipalities have to cut school routine because they have difficulties in balancing budgets, there is one thing. But if you don't pay the teachers for overtime and extra work and don't pay for temporary workers under a pandemic, it's a very big problem, and I expect the Council of State, as she has notified, to be clear about this to the municipalities. I would like everyone here who has rapporteurs to be equally clear to them, because even if we are in a time of crisis, local democracy cannot end. It would be quite problematic if at Stortinget we were to start earmarking funds for every single municipal sector when we have a pandemic that strikes so differently. That is what we have to recognise – that there is not one solution. Having said that, I believe that we need to consider whether we should grant more if the municipalities do not have to cover their costs. I hope everyone here avoids so doubting that that's what you're going to do. If you doubt it, it is harder for schools and municipalities to know and then dry to prioritize, for example. more temporary workers. I'm a little curious about the calculation that I experience that the interpellant, Tvedt Solberg, has used in some debates. At the latest yesterday, the representative said that the municipalities did not cover their expenses, and that 50 pst. the municipalities have not been compensated for the loss of parental payment in the SFO and kindergarten. But that is not correct, because in the supplementary proposal in November, the municipalities were compensated for this. Nor is it based on estimates from October. You've just granted 8.6 billion. kr this year because it was known that there could be major changes in school and that this would lead to increased costs. But we're going to be humble, because it's the teachers' experience that's important. That's what we're going to do when we're now discussing what to do. It's about money and making sure they get to the schools, but it's also about, as the Council of State was about, perhaps doing more to relieve the teachers, both by getting more temporary workers — perhaps teachers — and by being open and honest about not expecting everything with, for example, The renewal is as planned. This is a difficult situation, but we're going to do our best to help teachers and schools in the situation they're in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1235	First of all, it is in place with a great deal of thanks to all the country's teachers, school leaders and municipalities, who stand in the first place to give students as normal a daily life as possible under very abnormal circumstances. Many teachers are understandably tired of double work and constantly changing frameworks, and many feel insecurity and insecurity for their own health. Because the teachers didn't throw around just March 12 last year, they've had to throw around repeatedly for almost a year. In a survey from Response, which became known this week, most people respond that they feel overworked, infected and underpaid for the extra work. It is worrying when more than half of the 1,200 teachers asked have applied for a job or are considering submitting a job application for jobs outside the school during the last two years. At least there must be a warning lamp for employers out in the municipalities and for responsible state councils, because the last thing we need now is the absence of skilled teachers, who will reinforce the teaching shortage we already have in school. The anti-infectious measures are necessary, but they cost, on a sea-going basis, both in crowns and in extra effort. The centre party has for a long time asked for clarification on how to compensate for the additional costs, and then, last year, a group of government, KS and teacher organisations was picked up. But it's clear that while they were sitting and working and counting on minor incomes and extra expenses, the kindergarten teachers, the assistants, the teachers and the principals worked almost to cover up the illness and the quarantine that made colleagues unable to meet at work. I have to say that I think it's probably far from this room and to the individual classroom when I hear some of the posts, because it doesn't help to say to a principal who for weeks has 30 pst. of the quarantine staff and the red-level school, that one can only pinch new temporary workers. And it is challenging for councillors and school managers to cancel all budgets – to say away from all budgets almost, to cancel them and to say that now we're recalibrating – without sufficient certainty as to what is actually being compensated. Because there are some tracks that scare. One shall return no longer than spring 2020 and compensation for the loss of parental payment in kindergartens, where there was a discussion about the minor income actually being compensated or not. I'm reacting a little bit to that instead of the government being open that things can be done better, one here creates a kind of reconstructed conflict between the municipalities and the schools, the municipalities and the teachers. I think that's a little unworthy in the situation we're in. Instead of taking up some of the criticism that is coming, the government almost chooses to blame the municipalities. I think that's very unfortunate. It is a kind of ‘blame game’ that I also see as the representative Tybring-Gjedde came into Education News, where one insinuates that the municipalities spend money on things other than school, and that it is almost the fault of the municipalities that one is now in great difficulty at school. The point is that responsible principals and municipalities cannot use the money they do not have – and are not sure about it. When reality speaks as clearly as it does, I believe that the government must also be involved and acknowledge both that they can do things better, that communication can be better, and that it may not have been good enough in the months behind us. The centre party believes that a different type of dialogue is required both with the municipalities and with the schools. So the Center Party also strongly believes that some of the things that are now related to trade renewal should be assessed during this six-month period. Then we think in particular of the very unfortunate experimentation with the math exam that the government adds up to, and that the Education Directorate wants to get carried out, which will weaken the math profession. At least that kind of experimentation is not what schools need in the situation they're now in, where they're going to deal with a very extraordinary situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1250	Teachers experience that they are overworked, infected and underpaid for the additional work in the pandemic oil. 53 pst. of which they have either sought or assessed a job outside school. This is the number according to VG. This is very alarming, and I expect this to be taken very seriously by the country's knowledge minister. We can't lose any more teachers now. Together with the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, SV has now submitted a proposal for a representative with 16 concrete suggestions on how to get more teachers into Norwegian school. All these proposals have previously been voted against by the government parties. We already have too few trained teachers in Norwegian school, and a teacher crisis in Norwegian school is most real. The country's school minister will have to realize that soon. Then it is time that the position in this country also listens to the sector, which is in agreement that something has to be done. We need more people applying for teacher training. We need to keep the teachers we already have. We need to get the seniors to be willing to go further in the job. Norwegian teachers now need more than a pat on their shoulders. They need to see that the money comes to those for whom they were meant. Then it's about believing in the descriptions that the school comes with, that the teachers have, as the representative Marit Arnstad was inside his post. It is obvious that the money that is meant to go to school should go to school, and it is the minister's responsibility to put action in place that works. It is the Minister who has to give clearer instructions to the municipalities than the Minister has so far accomplished, to strengthen the school budgets, to bring in temporary workers who can relieve the burden of the burden on the underprivileged teachers, and not least that the money benefits the students. We know that the students who most of all need to be at school are the ones who work the most right now. It's not useful to blame the municipalities. The pressure the schools have been through for nearly a year is enormous, and one can only admire the employees of kindergartens and schools after what they've been in. Schools need money on the table now, and they don't need any more concerns about the economy as well as everything else. So this representative may occasionally be shooting over targets, as the minister was in the VG the other day. It is in the game to be involved and take responsibility for the team, but this is a responsibility for the team that the minister should take. It is a responsibility she should have taken for Norwegian schools in the serious situation we are in now, and not ask others to do the job. The solution to ensure that schools and kindergartens are paid their expenses in connection with the Korona is not a moral point finger against Norwegian municipalities. The solution is compensation that covers the actual costs incurred by each municipality. It has not done so far today's solution, and I wish the minister were willing to see it. For today's solution only covers an average, and that means that some municipalities get more, while other municipalities get much less. First of all, this is about municipal economy, a municipal economy that allows children and young people to be invested, so that they do not have to cut offers for children and young people, as the reality is in many Norwegian municipalities right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1281	Teachers, kindergarten staff, students, schools and kindergartens have made a tremendous effort in the last year, and I would like to thank you very much for that. There's a lot of people who've gone very far. The situation of teachers and students is the most important for us in the Left. For this reason, it is absolutely central that the resources made available by the government to cover the expenditure of municipalities and counties in the field of education are actually used in the school. That is why I and the Left are pleased with the close contact between the Department, KS and the organisations, about the resources needed in municipalities and counties to ensure that additional costs and income losses are covered. It is good that the government has provided the counties and municipalities with the funds that have been notified as necessary, and that in the autumn they left an extra billion to ensure that adequate funds are available. I am pleased with the clear speech and signals of the Council of State throughout the pandemic that the children, kindergarten and school are the most important, and that these must come first. The left is also pleased that as a country we have managed to keep schools open much higher than other countries that we can compare with. That the interpellant takes up the temporary employment offer in municipalities and counties is completely in place. Although the government has provided additional funds to the municipalities and the counties, unfortunately all these funds do not seem to have been made available to schools and kindergartens. In his own study with his members this fall, the Education Association documented that it did not seem that the money provided by the government and the government came to the schools. It is also heard about some municipalities that have funded the corona support rather than use it for measures in the municipality, and that is not the way we can do it. If the municipalities and the counties do not spend the money they receive, for what they should, the government has asked for goes the opposite way. Here, local politicians and administrations in counties and municipalities must deliver what the government has laid down in its appropriations and with its clear signals. Children and young people shall have the best and best possible offer under the pandemic. It shouldn't be that it gets cut in this. Teachers and principals should be sure that they can do their job in a good way. The left assumes that the counties and municipalities deliver according to their responsibilities for the future of children and young people, and do not use the pandemic to save money in the budgets. I'm glad that Council Melby is clear that it's not on the money, and that the money goes to the schools, to the teachers, and to the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1298	I would like to thank you for a good debate, and in particular I would like to thank the Council of State for now taking a closer look at some of the challenges she has faced today, perhaps especially this about adult education. I would also like to agree with the representative Tybring-Gjedde, who clearly says that an employee expects to be paid overtime and compensated for the extra work they have done. I think that's a good signal from the right government party. That's not what we've seen up to now. That's not what we saw when the Right was involved in introducing red levels in high school and high school. Then a free-time job was expected. There is nothing in the agreements with the teachers now that they will be compensated for this, so I hope this means that the Right, together with the Council of State from the Left, will now sit down with the parties and not least the government will put money on the table, so that you will be compensated for the extra work you have had. It has to be part of whether or not this is going to happen. I also very much agree with the representative Arnstad, who calls it unfair, as the government parties discuss, and not least the way they put municipalities, schools and teachers up against each other in the discussion of resources. Since the lack of parental payment was used as an example, I really find it shocking whether the government parties are satisfied with their own efforts in that area. Here's something about income that you didn't get in March, in April, in May. So some of that money finally got one, at the end of the year, in December, and it's the government's great pleasure, the snail speed in progress and the way to work with the municipalities. It goes without saying that it's impossible for a principal or a consultant to plan when the government is more concerned with arguing about the bill and cutting down on the calculations. I very much agree with the representative Arnstad, and hope that the Council of State is now more on the offensive – quickly will have new estimates, may say that she will engage in dialogue with the KS to get the calculations on the table – not just sit in the office and wait for others to count for her, and that one gets a more collective discussion, where one does not put municipalities, schools and teachers against each other, and at least does not owe the opposition. There's nothing but sought. One must be able to expect a slightly different discussion if we're going to be able to get to the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1310	I have to admit, I'm a little disappointed in what kind of debate we got now. I had hoped that we might be able to raise our eyes a little bit and discuss some of the long-term consequences that I fear this corona school will have. Because there is no doubt that although we now have the most, most schools open, and although most can also operate on a yellow level, there are still many children and young people who do not receive as good education and follow-up as they do and who do not receive as close follow-up from their teachers. I'm afraid of what it leads to both learning loss and social exclusion. I'm afraid that it leads to an increase in apostasy and a number of other things, and I wish we could have lifted our eyes a little bit on it. But then again there has been a dispute about money. I just have to stress it again: the government has from day one said that we are going to stand up for the municipalities. We started pretty early to grant extra funds. For example, it was about covering the parental payment: there were not many days between the kindergartens closed, until the government said we should sort it out. And the municipalities do not have the same liquidity challenges as for example. private companies, so it is not that municipalities have to get the money into the account on the day the parental payment disappears. As long as they know that the money comes from the state, they can budget with it. And if we now get into a situation where the municipalities actually don't trust the state, then we have really big problems. I believe that 2020 showed that the state is making money. All the calculations we have so far show that we actually set up with more than what the municipalities had of expenses. With regard to the measures requested by the representative, e.g.: continuous dialogue with KS: Yes, we do. We have our own working group where KS is involved, who sits and does these calculations, and who takes in the new numbers, the new facts, and who, of course, makes very clear feedback to us in the government if there is a need for more money. To underline it again, we've granted 8.6 billion. kr extra for this six months, but if it turns out that the need is greater, we will of course set up with that money. So it's important now – and it's not about blame, but it's about being clear to those who can actually make a change now – that neither advisers, rapporteurs nor anyone else can use the money they've received, on temporary workers, on increased cleanliness, on support functions that make it possible to run the best possible training offer without exhausting employees. Because if the money was to be spent, if it was to be empty, and if the need exceeds what they've got now, they're going to get more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1323	That is when the debate is on case No. 5 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1339	In the referenced, the audience has already been introduced into the problem. We have to put the place and the name of what's happening. Lecturer Clemens Saers at Oslo School of Commerce is the person who is behind this interview and who experienced being attacked and subjected to permanent bodily injury while, like thousands of schoolmates across the country, exercising his profession on a regular school day – teaching, expanding knowledge, building up individual students, supporting norms and conveying society's values to a new generation. It's both a social mission and a trusty task on behalf of parents and superiors, and it's not least a privilege for the students who get this offer, which in this way makes the key to understanding and mastering the subjects, and much more to master life later. And it's also when the teacher sees that she or he succeeds in this, that teaching gives professional pride and meaning. At the same time, a physical attack on a teacher is an attack on all the school stands for. It is also an attack on innocent fellow students who see that time and energy that should have been spent on them, instead, agree to deal with social and, in some cases, criminal behaviour. As the representative of the magnification, caution should be exercised in saying too much publicly about cases pending before the court. But the case is closed before the courts. And there should again be a theme for the policy on whether the results produced by these and similar issues are both fair and fair, whether Saers and his colleagues should not be informed of the dangers of already violently convicted students and the risks they represent to school employees and fellow students. It is part of the story that Saers was attacked because he stood in the doorway when they forced violent rescuers from another class to enter the classroom to knock a student in Saer's class. So Saers is out of health, not because he himself had acted loosely or unwisely or provocatively, but because he was brave enough to stand in the way of the intruders and to protect his own students. It also belongs in the picture that after Saers was shut down, there were equally courageous students who took up the defense against the intruders. For this, one of them has received the Carnegie Medal, a condolences to people who are at risk of their health and life doing more than what is expected. So it's the cold jessen: when the court did not find that the school administration had acted negligently in a sufficiently qualified – that is, roughly – degree, Saers was not awarded compensation according to the rules that now apply, even if the court denies the employer for having failed. Then you could say that the perpetrator was sentenced to unconditional imprisonment, and then everything has to be all right. It seems to be the way of thinking. However, in the further work on the matter, I believe that I have revealed a larger complex of problems which means that I have brought this matter forward in this interview, because I believe it requires the attention of all of us and an assessment by the Minister of Knowledge. The case is not a single event. It's just very grotesque. It is not limited to an event in a classroom at Oslo School of Commerce. It turns out that there are many and a growing number of cases of violence and threats to teachers in school, and not least in Oslo School. From 2015 to 2019, which is the last whole year for which we have statistics, it's about 3.5 times the number of events. In 2019 there were 1,908 serious and 592 very serious events, a total of 2,500. In Oslo School, 15 p.m. by the teachers experienced unacceptable events, if we also include the category under the two most serious. From 871 registered episodes in 2015, the statistics can now read 4,840 in 2019. We're talking about over a five-fold. Now probably someone would say that behind such a development are relationships that the school does not affect itself. However, there will be a question of whether management of the Oslo School is interested in these figures, and whether effective measures are at all, which can reverse development and which should be something more than offering subsequent therapy discussions with violent teachers, after the damage has occurred. I find no sign of such an interest in combating neither violence nor the development of violence in Oslo School, but I find excuses, and I find no way around. Let's stop for a moment at the history of this violence. The convicted rapist brought more to attack — not the teacher as his main goal, but a fellow student. The aim was to recover drug debts through the use of violence. We see that there is a complex of crime that can be committed in the field of secondary school — organised profit crime, the school as a marketplace for drugs, violence against fellow students and those who are primarily required to exercise the school’s authority. For then a moment to return to the wrong against Saers: What does he experience? Well, the leaders are running away from responsibility, both legal and not least moral. The municipality mobilizes the competent lawyers in the municipality's legal office – the municipal lawyer – in the war against the one who suddenly became the problem, the victim, the one who was attacked. And when the person loses the claim, the municipality insists that he should cover the municipality's costs in addition to his own. After several courts, Saers is standing back with damaged health, which the court thought could probably have been prevented by the employer, and with a bill of nearly 1.7 million. kr. A paradoxical point is that the country incurs 300000 kroner in VAT. The state wins, even when it's a moral loser. On this basis and in view of the serious nature of the matter and not least what the figures reveal by a phenomenon of growth and the lack of interest in doing something powerful with it, I would like to respond to the Council of State's response.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1364	I would like to start by thanking the representative for raising a serious issue, and for dealing with it with the seriousness I believe such a matter deserves. I think it's right to start by stressing that violence and outrage, whether it's directed at other students, teachers or other adults in school, is totally unacceptable. It can have major consequences for everyone involved, as the representative has referred to, and it is serious for both those who are exposed to it and those who are perpetrators of the violence. Employees in school have the right to a good working environment, and students have the right to a safe and good psychosocial school environment. Here the code is clear. Still, we know that reality isn't always like that. I am aware that the proportion of employees in school who have been exposed to various forms of violence or threats has been increasing in Oslo. It's serious, and it's a development we're looking at with great concern, both nationally and locally. I think we have to recognize that there are complex reasons for this, and that it is a demanding job to reverse development. The school and a lot of other public services have to work prevention. In addition, they must have good procedures for what to do when situations arise in which students become obscene. Then it is absolutely essential that teachers who are subjected to violence or threats are followed up in a good way. I would like to see Oslo Municipality show a more positive development than what we see today. At the same time, I assume that the Municipality of Oslo takes the situation seriously and that they are actively working to ensure that employees and students are safe. I am also pleased that the Municipality of Oslo publishes detailed statistics on the extent of violence and threats, for a good record of events is essential in order to be able to work systematically and follow up the events in question. It also contributes to the possibility of giving political attention to an important topic. It is the school owners, like employers, who have the primary responsibility for the safety of the school and working environment for pupils and employees. What challenges each school faces, and what are the good solutions, will vary. I therefore believe that work against violence in school must be done mainly locally. The municipality of Oslo will, for example: have some challenges other than many other municipalities. But nationally, of course, we have a responsibility to support the work done by municipalities, and also to contribute to this being a priority area. In order to strengthen the work done locally, the government has set in motion a cooperation between some selected municipalities and county municipalities, and Oslo is one of the municipalities involved in that work. Through this cooperation, which was launched in 2018, municipalities will find good measures to prevent violence in school. The aim is, of course, that what is found in this forum should also be shared with other school owners, in order to disseminate experience and good practice. This work is well underway and is due to expire in 2021. I really hope that this will give us some positive results. I am also aware that Oslo has implemented several measures to reduce violence and abusive behaviour in school. One example is the project ‘Safe and warm secondary schools’. It is good to see that in the secondary schools participating in this project, there has been a reduction in the number of events in the last year. So it's not that there are no lighting points, although the statistics as a whole are not positive. Although the main responsibility for the working environment of teachers lies with employers, the law is the responsibility of the State. The Ministry of Knowledge is currently working on the proposals of the NOU 2019: 23 New Training Act. It is proposed to lay down rules to prevent and prevent the occurrence of situations that could cause harm to persons. A clearer regulation shall contribute to the optimal management of challenging situations. A clearer framework for what employees can and cannot do will also contribute to increased safety for those working at school. The Ministry aims to send proposals for a new training law at the hearing in spring 2021. With regard to the representative's questions relating to the specific matter that he raises in his statement, I would like to point out that the matter has been dealt with in the court, and I believe that it is wrong for me to comment on a matter that has been dealt with in the court.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1391	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I understand the tone of what she says, that she is also concerned about development, and that she recognises this as a problem, and a growing problem. That is precisely why I might have wished for a more detailed description of what the Council of State sees for itself is going to bring us from an unacceptable development of violence to, at first, getting it under control, and then bringing it down. Here it was both a reminder that everything the state does not have the first line responsibility for, that I understand can be convenient, and then there was a reference to the cooperation to be implemented. Then you can say about my tired ear that when I hear process references, there are no startling vibrations in my inner vision. Because I haven't heard that it's promoted a single idea or a single proposal on how we can do this better. It is pointed out that there are complex reasons, but there were certainly complex reasons in society three years ago. It doesn't seem quite so complicated to me. It's about enforcing the adult authority that we need institutionally. It's about simple things -- but it's maybe a little bit more expensive -- like demarcating the school physically, and there are adults who ask, "Excuse me, do you have anything to do here?" Is it drugs you carry here? What's that knife doing in the brush? When such questions are not asked, and everyone crawls into their safe, professional position and hopes that someone else will sort it out, it goes wrong. For me, one must begin to accept or begin to view the school as an institution capable of physically demarcating itself in a credible way. We're not going to have airport checks or drug dogs in, but we're going to have a daily follow-up and interest in who's there. Are they really there to learn something, or are they there to spread the criminal activity you always find in a society, into this area? I think you owe that to the students. You owe it to their superiors. You also owe it to the social mission that teachers stand on the front line to defend and spread. I would like us to discuss together what can be effective measures. I've mentioned someone here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1404	I have great respect for the impatience of the representative, I just want to say that. I also believe that teachers who themselves have been in unacceptable situations are aware of the same impatience. So that referring to a work that's going on, that's going to be done in 2021, and then we're going to get some results that we might be able to spread on, is not a satisfactory answer, I understand very well. With regard to very specific measures, as the representative emphasises, there is nothing in the law today that prevents more concrete action from being taken. In Oslo, a two, three or four years ago, there was a rather big debate related to a school in the south of the city that created some physical obstacles to entering school. I was myself attending that school, and I must admit that I went from being very critical to the measures to have a very great understanding of the need for them after I had been there on a visit. I also experienced that there was a school that did not primarily focus on the kind of instruments to bring down violence and insecurity, but which was very good at working with the students, being close to them and following them up, and which also had a great understanding that many students were in a very difficult situation. Having said that, I believe that the kind of measures that that school had to introduce will not be relevant in so many schools elsewhere in the country. At least there's nothing to suggest it per now. But, as I said, there is nothing in the law that prevents the use of that type of instrument. I also believe that in the past there have been some good, positive bets in Oslo where teams have been centrally located in the municipality of Oslo that have been able to contribute in schools that have had major challenges. Now I think part of that work has been put back a little bit in Oslo. I think that's very bad for both the teachers and the students, and I hope you can get back some of the systematics of that work. I think that is also important to prevent violence and insecurity in Oslo School. There is no doubt that we have a serious challenge here. Obviously, there are some measures that can safeguard the situation there and there, but these are often quite complex challenges. In a way, we don't get to solve the real problem until we actually get a little bit better involved with the students and worked much more systematically and preventively.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1415	I would like to begin by welcoming the interpellant after. I addressed the matter to Clemens Saers here in Stortinget in the autumn of 2019 – there are three knowledge ministers since – both the matter and the underlying challenges. And it's a pretty precise description that comes from the interpellant, that his own government has no power to do anything about this and has put the problem in the drawer. Let me also say that it is totally unacceptable that teachers should go to work and risk being subjected to violence and experiencing threats. I think the interpellant roughly and erroneously simplifies it when one isolates the problem to the schools in Oslo. There is no cover for that either. For example, the Labour Inspectorate has examined nearly 100 schools in Eastfold and Akershus and found many of the same challenges, and the Education Association in Rogaland has spoken to its members, which also confirms the challenges. What scares me most about the findings of Rogaland, is that younger and younger students are increasingly acting out, and that teachers even in the first grade of high school experience being subjected to violence. One of the things that I think is particularly important about the case of Clement Saers, is his statements in retrospect. What he said was that what bothered him the most was the employer's management of this afterwards. It is also confirmed by the comprehensive report of the Labour Inspectorate on the problem for a few years ago, where one points out that there is enormous national potential for improvement, and that there is a lack of a culture to address it, and tools to address it. The teachers I've spoken to in Rogaland confirm this. One tells us that those who warn or say something about it are not being heard. That's why you also know that there are great numbers of darkness. Because there's nothing going on. One really doesn't have to warn or say from, because it's definitely not taken care of. That is why I believe that one needs better national systems. I think one should be inspired by the health service, who has had a similar discussion, where one has tackled the challenges of violence and serious incidents. One has created a good system, where when things happen, when it is notified and notified, in a short time the necessary resources are to be deployed and the necessary steps taken. It's not like that in school today. One's reporting, and too many people are going to do it. If we're going to get a change that makes the blood shower, which the interpellant was a little bit looking for, one can't leave this up to each municipality or school alone. Cultural change is needed, but national tools are also needed to follow it up. There is also a need for better lawmaking. The Minister of Knowledge referred to changes in the Training Act. I'm glad someone's looking at it now. I have long thought that a particular person needs to look at Chapter 9 A, which has called into question the legal certainty of teachers and employees, and make the necessary changes. Now there's an unfortunate contrast between students' rights and teachers' rights, which we need to clean up politically. I find it alarming that the Council of State should continue to wait for the overall review when, through regulations and circulars, necessary clarifications can be made in the work of the Training Act, so that the legal certainty of the teachers is more ensured. For example, one now in some cases does not even have the right to be heard. We can change that. Then we don't have to wait for the training law, which of course will be good when it comes first. That's why I hope that the eager interpellant shows by promoting the discussion, is also an zeal he takes into his own party – which in the same way, when they had the council, rejected the issue – and not least into the discussions with the government. I hope he gets his own state council to join in and take the systematic and legal steps that we need to move on. For once again, it was a very precise description, that this government does not have the power to do anything about a challenge one has just seen grow.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1434	I would like to start by thanking the representative Tetzschner for raising this matter and for taking a thorough look at the case at Clemens Saers after it has been in the courts, so that we can have a good discussion here. As parliamentarians and politicians, we often take a position on matters and discuss them from the system level rather than the individual level. You can also do that in this case. We discuss how we can ensure that schools have the right skills to prevent serious incidents, that the school owner has a sound system to respond to students’ demands for a good learning environment and employees’ demands for a safe working environment. We also talk about the procedures you need to have in place to prevent, for example. that there are outsiders in the classroom who are actually there to conduct criminal acts, and that there is good cooperation and information flow between the police, child protection and the school, so that teachers and school leaders know which students are involved in criminal environments and that there are security practices in schools to deal with it. At the same time, I think it is only when we are confronted with the story of an individual, in this case a person who experienced that the employer might not acknowledge his responsibility for his safety in words or actions, that we are reminded of the consequences of the failure of the system. The consequences of the failure of the school owner to have a proper system in place to prevent and monitor serious incidents and the consequences of serious incidents being sprayed down are known to individuals. I think the representative Tetzschner had good reflections on Clemens Saers, and he also raised the issue of security procedures. Now I've visited several schools in Oslo, high school and high school, which have just set up this kind of security routine. And the claim that there's a suspicion of the students at that school is very few of the students I've talked to, who recognize themselves in. On the contrary, they feel that when there are security procedures to ensure school security as a safe training place where other actors do not come in to engage in criminal acts, it is really a respect for their right to freedom. I think it is important to stress that, because sometimes in the debate on juvenile delinquency up against the schools, there is a tendency almost to expound the actions of older students with a difficult background or a difficult history. I believe that such an explanation is to deny the personal responsibility, but it is also about not having respect for the person. The schools that actually manage to prevent violence are the schools that have quite clear frameworks and also good relations with the students, and that are sure of what can happen within their walls. What I really wanted to bring forward as a new moment is more about the prevention part, and especially at primary school level, and not least the role of a municipality as a school owner. Being an active school owner sometimes appears to be about recruiting more people and moving in with, for example: more social workers if it burns in a school. But being an active school owner is really about having a political level and an administrative management apparatus in the municipality that systematically and continuously demands and makes schools responsible for how they work to create a good learning environment while also supporting with professional support and competence – just to build a continuous scaffolding around the schools to ensure that they are constantly learning and improving their routines. To the extent that municipalities, which I unfortunately also experience, happen in Oslo, more view their role as the school owner as a kind of call-out service that first emerges at the moment it has happened, I believe is an old governance logic that does not work in our time and in a school as diverse as in Oslo. It is particularly problematic to see a very sharp increase in violence among the youngest students in Oslo. This just indicates that you fail to be close to schools and work with a good learning environment. What happens too often is that you have students who do something. Then they experience that they are stamped and isolated from the classroom. The follow-up they get from unqualified. So these challenges are going on, and they're going to be even stronger later in school. It's a complex problem, because it tells us that you can't isolate the issue of violence in school to the quality of training. It's completely connected. The schools that have worked well with prevention have just worked well with education, a good learning environment and a classroom. I just mention it, because that's how prevention we need to avoid such situations happening later in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1455	At first I have to say that it is a bit nice to follow my daughter in the chair. This is the first time we are in the same debate, I think. It's kind of special. I will begin by welcoming the representative of Torstein Tvedt Solberg after, for these debates we have had several times in the storeroom. I didn't have to look much in the papers until I found the last time I had posts here and the last time I was in the New Year 18 to debate this. In 2018, the NRK showed a shocking article on the news about young girls who were killed in the classroom. You might remember that when you think about it. After that, nothing happened. The year before that again, in 2017, it was the principal at Hersleb school, Terje Wold, who was out and notified that at his school it was absolutely impossible to keep quiet in the classrooms and at school. He did not know his poor advice on how to solve this. It was attacking students from fellow students, and it was attacking teachers. Nothing happened. It continued as before, and everyone spoke as they had before. No one dares do anything. You take into account the few instead of the many – you do it over and over again. After that, in 2017, I sat in Dagsnyt 18 and debated with Trine Skei Grande, who was then the head of the research and education committee. She said there was no problem. She had met six students from Stovner High School in her office, and they had said that they had only seen battle once. That's why there was no problem. And so it continued, and so it's going to continue next year and next year there again. They talk about prevention without addressing what is most important. It starts at home – education begins at home. If you've learned at home that mission means to beat each other, you can't get better when you get to school, because it's quite unusual when you first experience it at home. Then you have an aggressive level that means you can't deal with the rules we've established in our country. That's the truth. We can go to Malmö, where it's quite extreme. In the schools in Malmø — which was also known a long time ago — there is full chaos and fighting between groups. Schools had to be closed because management lost control of a violent student mass. It was in 2016. And it went on. In Sweden it is even worse today. That's how you talk about prevention. Where should prevention start? Prevention starts at home, and then you have to start there and tell your parents what's expected in the classroom. In 2017, when I was in New Year's New Year 18, I suggested that it should be the worst classes. Those who do not manage to behave, and who destroy the many, should be put into their own classes, where someone takes care of them, where they actually learn folk, because this is about folk culture and the introduction to Norwegian culture and how our schools work. You have to call a spade and stop apologizing every time someone does something that's not acceptable in our society. Contest classes are something you can evaluate. Then someone has to take care of them, and those who can't behave are placed there, so that the great majority can learn. The vast majority want to learn and become productive people in society. What should be done now is to monitor developments in Oslo School, in concrete terms. You have to look at where the Oslo challenges are. Because it doesn't exist. People don't like to get hold of it. These are challenges you don't like to tackle. And it's not going to be taken care of either. Neither this government nor the council wants to take hold of it, for it is so uncomfortable to put their fingers away in it. Although this is a good interpellation, it's not about replacing a teacher. It's about a culture in school and in society. That culture needs to be surveyed, and it actually has to have consequences if you don't manage to behave – either against teachers or fellow students. I encourage this government to monitor the school and also understand that it must have consequences if you are not able to behave properly in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1478	I would like to say a thousand thanks to the representative Tetzschner for a very good interpellation and for the important and direct way he handled things. It is not always I want to say that there are good debates in Stortinget, but now I have heard more articles that I think have been interesting to sit and listen to. Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde made a good contribution on both measures and angles, and I also think some of the system things at national level that Torstein Tvedt Solberg brought up were important. For my part, I have to say that I have been very upset by following the story of Saers, in particular that after such a terrible act of violence and such a fate – one might say – with being so hurt for life, he must feel the counterwork, pressured out of the State of Education and the Vice-Chancellor, and that he says that he has not been asked at all during the search if he needs help, and that he has also been demanded to pay the costs, and that the City Council refused financial support, etc. It's very sad to hear about a destiny like this. What I notice most about what we can think of following from that is the lack of risk assessment of the student behind the incident, the lack of history of violence, the lack of knowledge of the teachers, and the fact that it is also taboo to talk about this in school, because you want a good reputation. I have even visited a number of the schools that are most exposed to the problem over quite many years now, and I discussed the situation with a principal at one of these schools last night. I must say that I agree with Tetzschner that there is reason for concern about whether it is taken seriously enough, whether it is taken into account in the Municipality of Oslo, and also elsewhere, which Tvedt Solberg was in. I want to say that there are at least three things that have come up in the conversations and from the experiences I have. The first is that there is not a good enough system in place to know which students in school have criminal scrolls, who have violent history, etc., especially when students are admitted, when putting together classes, distributing resources, how to build up the school environment – there are privacy rules and things that make this not work as it should. I really want to ask the Council of State to look at the frameworks to get knowledge of the students. It is for the benefit of the students to be prevented, and also for other students, the school, the teachers and the security, it is necessary to have a plan for how to deal with it. I've been to schools where you've got a lot of students with criminal scrolls and violent incidents in the same class. You could say that you can have the worst classes, but here you don't know that you have the worst classes, and that's not set for it. It's created unsustainable situations. This is also related to the character recording in the municipality of Oslo. There are often unmotivated students who are also involved in criminal events, and often there are some schools that get a large overrepresentation of students who have such a background. So here are the difficult situations with more people with a criminal background in one class, who also bring with them conflicts from things they experience in leisure, into the classroom. The second point that I think it's important to go into, is that the principals tell me that they want to have the authority to turn on cameras in the common areas because it creates security for students who are staying there, and because it gives the opportunity to figure out what has happened. It's in situations where they feel uneasy at school, where things happen that they have to follow and take hold of. Today, there's an excessive search process for the State of Education to be able to turn on these cameras, which means that they can't handle the situation when it develops something they want to tackle, will follow. They cannot keep up applications – I kept saying – for weeks to get permission to put the cameras on for periods of time. The third thing I want to do about the problem -- it'll be short now -- is when you can come in 15 minutes late to every hour, it leads to students who are a little motivated, hanging out, and there'll be more room for events. The possibility of entering so late is regulated nationally, in terms of what is to be absent.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1493	I would like to thank the representative Tetzschner for addressing this important matter. Let me say: Norway has a good school. Bullying goes down, more finish high school, and more take higher education. But violence has no place in school. Workplaces shall be safe. The working environment in schools should be good and safe for both teachers and students. School owners are responsible for the working environment in schools and have to take care of this. We are in close contact with schools, with school owners and not least with trade unions. But we need to have high targets for the best possible working environment in school, and that requires a lot of school owners. There must be prevention, students must be seen, relationships must be built with young people, but there must also be a safe environment for all teachers in school. A safe and optimal working environment requires a long-term effort. It also requires good practice and dedicated work for all those who are part of the school. The left wants to be involved and work towards further action for the working environment at school – through regulations, through laws, through learning and good common practices – because this requires a great deal of joint effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1505	Thank you to the interpellant for addressing an important matter in an important area. I think that even though the verdict has turned out the way it is, I think that it's being lifted up on the pulpit of the Stortinge and really being discussed, makes it a little better for the lecturer. We can discuss what's the cause of violence from students against teachers, and see what you can do about the reasons. But we also know on the other hand that we have problems recruiting teachers to school today. I think that if the teachers had known that they had the employers behind them if they got into such a terrible situation as this example shows, it might encourage recruitment. If you don't think you have employers behind you when you face something so serious, I don't think we can promote school as a safe and good job. It's about making sure the teachers are safe at work. And if they are not, employers would be behind the teachers. Of course, school insecurity is totally unacceptable, both for teachers and for other employees. But insecurity also makes teaching and learning environment unacceptable and poor for students. We've seen examples of adults, both people who work at school and parents, who have simply abdicated themselves to children as precursors. It is a serious challenge and may be some of the reasons for this. If we are to recruit young people for the teaching profession, the profession must also be attractive in terms of the safe working environment. As a former teacher, I strongly react to the judgment against that lecturer in Oslo School. The Court has spoken, but for me and for many of my former colleagues, this appears to be an unreasonable judgment. This is not the case for school employees. We have to do something about it so it doesn't continue, because this is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1518	I would like to thank my fellow representatives for their commitment and interest in the matter, regardless of party membership, I think that is promising. It brings me to the next point, namely the courts. I noticed that the Council of State in its first post would not comment on the outcome in court any further because that is what the courts have said, and you should respect that. But that is the process to be respected. I was not looking to criticise the craft that the judges have done, in which case the law they have assumed has been deficient. Then it's starting to get interesting, because there are three speakers here who have said that we have to look at those rules, because this is the legislative assembly, and then we can give the courts something more to work on that will produce more reasonable results. And it'll always be politics to address what you think is insufficient legal protection, if you see that it's a problem – so if we can be together about it in the future. I also think that was the explanation when Torstein Tvedt Solberg brought the matter up in 2019, because it still happened. So you could say that it was just a postponement, but I don't think it deserves the characteristic ‘welcome after’ when you start looking at this from the system side as soon as the court has said it. I agree very much with what the younger Tybring-Gjedde said, that we have to be careful not to have a system perspective in these matters, but imagine how everyday life is in the individual school. Then I also have to remind you that the penal code applies in the schools. We have to make sure that this doesn't become a legal space, and that we have an adult authority capable of enforcing the rules we already have, in addition to getting some rules that are better. It is simply a matter of requiring – as an entrance ticket – people to behave civilised, and this is a requirement that must be made long before there is a violent incident and before there is a fight, no matter who it may be between. So I still think – and it was a nice reminder we got from the government council – that the schools can do more precisely when it comes to who comes, who has something to do at a school, and that when you see things evolve in an unkind way, you don't have to wait until the ideal allocation is granted from here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1527	I would also like to thank you for a good and informative debate, although I think that some of the articles may have been somewhat simplistic about the causes of violence. I also think that the representative Tybring-Gjedde was interested in something important, namely to look at the very relationship between the quality of the training offer and the way students behave at school. It's clear that students who are good, who thrive, and who experience mastering, have very little degenerative behavior. But it's not like it's the school's fault every time a student is outgoing, there may be very complex reasons, so to prevent this challenge, we also have to work very widely, and we have to work with a lot of actions at the same time. As for the legal aspect, which the representative Tetzschner also raised in his last post, and which is the main purpose of this assembly, it is quite right that a number of issues here are regulated by many laws, but there is probably no doubt that there is also a small legal space here that is about the use of coercion and power towards students, which is something we would prefer to avoid, but we know that there will arise situations where employees feel that they have to use coercive force against students in school. As the situation is today, this is not regulated, and it is one of the themes that we need to debate now when we are discussing proposals for a new training law, because there it is proposed to introduce legal rules on the use of coercion in school. The aim of that proposal is to be able to avert harm, but also to improve legal certainty, contribute to increased transparency and thus also raise awareness of the use of coercion in school. The Ministry aims to send proposals for new training laws to be consulted during the spring and then invites all representatives involved in this debate to also take part in the debate on that law, in order to ensure that it meets the needs we actually have to regulate this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1538	So the debate is on case No. 6ths over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1550	The vote will begin at the next voting time on the remaining items on agenda No. 41 from Tuesday 19 January, which is case No. 4–7. Case No. 4 was a question for Storting's presidency, and there is therefore no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1602	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Center Party proposal No 2, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red Proposal No. 2 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit an obliging timetable for the winding-up of the tender system in the field of child protection, which ensures that, when contracts with commercial companies are concluded today, they shall not be renewed and single purchases shall be completed. The contingency plan shall ensure that ownership and operation of child protection are public and in long-term cooperation with non-profit actors.’;» The Socialist Left has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1628	Proposal No. 1, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the Government: 1. submit an obligatory notice plan for the winding-up of the current system of tenders in the protection of children, since children are not required to submit tenders. 2. avoid consolidation and excessive market shares for large commercial suppliers at the end of contracts with private companies and increase the proportion of non-profit and small individual service providers at the time of the conclusion of new contracts. 3. present a stepping-up plan to ensure that ownership and operation of child protection are public or in long-term cooperation with non-profit actors.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1662	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1674	The size of the store then goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1683	Case No. 1 is the second time that law enforcement is dealt with and is subject to the rule of law 63. There is no comment suggestion. Thus, the law passed on a second time and was sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1700	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 and 2, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party Dei Green. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for various ways to secure the remaining funding of the carbon capture of Fortum Oslo Heat through the use of innovative funding mechanisms, public procurement policies or directives on the use of waste management with carbon capture energy, and to propose such funding in proposals for a revised national budget for 2021.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set targets for the testing of CO 2 capture from the air in Norway and to ensure the financing of such test facilities.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1753	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1787	During the debate, Mr Halleland presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to open up power companies to apply for power development also in sheltered watercourses where natural and environmental interventions are limited and at the same time generate benefits in terms of increased power generation and profitability.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee shall be rejected. The centre party has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1815	Case No. 4–6 are interpellations, and therefore there is no votering theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-21.ana.ud150e1868	Thus, today's maps are processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
