ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e53	Honourable co-representatives! On 5 December 2020, former Depositary Representative Bjørn Unneberg left Akershus. The lawyer Unneberg was from Stokke in Vestfold, but he and the family put the boar on the garden Brudalen in Ullensaker. It was in the local politics of Romerike he first took up political work, first as a municipal government representative in Ullensaker for three periods from 1959 and later as a member of the district council in Akershus from 1967 to 1977. He had a sharp brain and a good pen and inspired many – especially the young and progressive in the Center Party who had a vision of a Center Party that was an alternative not only to the left side of politics, but also to the right side. That he was mobilizing heavily around him, there are several examples. It is clear in his language that he won the nomination battle in Akershus Centerpartie against Hans Borgen himself before the collapse election in 1969. Bjørn Unneberg arrived at Stortinget in 1969, and he was sitting for two periods. He spent the first period in the municipal committee, which in the mid-period extended its field of action to cover environmental protection. The Norwegian Ministry of the Environment was known to be the first in the world in 1972. In the second period, Unneberg was the leader of the Justice Committee. Unneberg made a leap from his efforts as a staging representative, but that's not what he's primarily thought about in the Center Party. The intellectual internationalist Unneberg was also a writer, especially active in the circle around the party publishing house Cultura, the ideological journal Senit and the Zenterpartiet, where he was a study director. In 1971, Cultura published Unneberg's book, «Green Socialism for Foreign Proletarians», entitled «Some popular basic ideas about freedom, equality and brotherhood in our time». This was the year before the referendum on the EC in 1972, and the tumult of new radicalism, grassroots exposure and activism far into the districts and far into the centre party. At the same time, it was cooperation with Right who had led the Center Party to government under Lyng in 1963 and Borten in 1965. But the Right was not an ally in the EC battle, just as much as the leadership in the Labour Party was. If one distanced from the Right, it was also unlikely that the bourgeois parties would win the struggle for government power with the Labour Party. All of this made the debate about the Central Party's cooperation line fresh, and the debate was going through the whole of the 1970s with some hard internal draw struggles. Those who have read the book realize that Unneberg was not a socialist, but he was also not enthusiastic about a pure capitalism. Unneberg did not accept that socialists should have a monopoly on solidarity, and demonstrated to the full that the centre party also had international orientation. He was able to get a populist in the best sense of the word. Here we must remember - in this room - that it is only the later years that this practice has tended to become a shell word. Unneberg lost the battle for the first place on the Central Party list in Akershus in 1977, and he was then a respected sorrenist in Eidsvoll until he was a retired. It would nevertheless be totally wrong to say that Unneberg and the political project he stood for, suffered defeat. The break with the Right in 1990, the central government after the elections in 1997 and the government cooperation with the Labour Party after the elections in 2005 and 2021 show that it grew well where Unneberg ploughed and sowed. So he'll always have an important place in the soga about the Center Party's history. We shine peace over Bjørn Unneberg's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e86	The representative, Sofie Marhaug, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e91	On behalf of Bjönrna Moxnes, Marie Snee Martinussen and myself, I would like to submit a proposal for a representative on the repayment of the state's increased electricity revenues in order to secure electricity for everyone before Christmas. We ask for the proposal to be dealt with in an urgent manner under point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e98	The proposal will be dealt with in accordance with the rules. The President would like to point out that case No. 1 in the meeting map has not been public in the 48 hours required by the regulations, cf. Paragraph 46 of the Rules of Procedure. However, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling. No objections have been raised against it. The President sees it as a matter of fact. In addition, the President will inform you that case No. 4, Unit, will be dealt with before case No. 1, and the President therefore asks the representatives to be seated until the minutes have been finalised.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e160	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, there will be no replication, and those who draw on the voice list in addition to the time allocated will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e167	Prop. 33 L for 2021-2022 promotes proposals for some temporary adaptations to the procedural legislation. The proposal concerns the rule on extended access to remote meetings and interviews, which we had until 1 December 2021 by temporary law § 3, and the rules that extradition requests and legal requests can be made using electronic means of communication, which were subject to temporary laws §§ 13 and 14. The Committee refers to the entry into force on 27 March 2020 of the provisional rules supplementing and supplementing the procedural legislation. As the covid-19 situation changed and flared up again several times, these rules have been continued and extended on several occasions. Today the home has expired. The Committee points out that the infectiveness situation in society has changed rapidly this autumn. The background to the proposed interim rules is to remedy the consequences of the disease protection measures and will have for the settlement of cases in the justice sector. The proposal is justified on the grounds that adaptations to facilitate effective case-by-case resolution will continue to be necessary, while complying with any measures to protect infection, recommendations and injunctions. The Committee notes that the Ministry's proposal to extend the application of some of the rules of this provisional law beyond the previous law is in order to ensure the proper and safe operation of the courts and of parts of the justice sector. This concerns proposals for extended access to the use of remote meetings and interviews and for extradition requests and legal requests to be transmitted using electronic means of communication. As the rapporteur, I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Justice for a good cooperation in putting this law in place very quickly. It's good to see how good forces work together when we're in crisis, and when the situation changes quickly, as we've seen many times in this room lately.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e180	There should be no doubt that both this and the next issue that is being dealt with on the map today are issues that the Progress Party is putting itself at the back of a hundred percent, and where there is also a unanimous vote by the Committee. In this way, it's important and right to get these changes in place, when we see developments regarding covid, and at the same time we know that the time is short to get legislation in place before Christmas. The reason why I drew myself is simply that it feels like the government has had quite a lot of time to get these changes to the law in time for the Storting. Yes, the Storting has even stretched extremely far to put in place these changes, which are correct and necessary, and it did so to the extent that President Stortinget, too, pointed out in the beginning of the meeting, that we do not have ordinary treatment. On the part of the committee, there has been a very rapid treatment, which naturally requires and requires, but I think it is appropriate to point out that it appears that the government did not understand the need and necessity for these changes in the law in time, and that is what we see the result of now. This also applies to the next case. I can really just mention it too, so I won't take the word in the next case. We have to be able to expect that the government is working with a slightly longer perspective than what this case, these two things, gives us the impression. It looks like there's a lot of arms and legs up here and not being able to get things out for the Storting in time, and we can't be aware of that. If we are to stand together – and that is what Stortinget does – and make sure that we are effective in dealing with the pandemic, it also demands that the government do its part of the job and get things done in time. Well, the way it looks now, it doesn't work that way. It may be the Council of State that can explain it in more detail, but from our perspective we believe that this is not at all good enough, and we expect you to have a slightly longer time horizon for how to deal with problems around covid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e189	I think all of us who are here are in complete agreement on the need to adapt the process code to the current infectious situation. Let there be no doubt about it. I also think most people can agree that the ideal thing in a situation of course is that this kind of proposal comes to the Stortinget as quickly as possible. It took longer than we had hoped, but we are still glad that these rules have come, that we can now respond to what the courts have wanted, as the legal system actors have wanted, and that we have dealt with it quickly in the Committee – that it has gone through the general procedures and received proper treatment. I think it is important to stress that the Justice Committee has shown itself willing to throw around and deal with these matters in a good way, and that there has been flexibility. We in the SV want to stress that it is important in all other matters and dealing with adaptations to the infection situation – we want it to go through the committee, we want to deal with it properly, and of course we want to be constructive and flexible in dealing with it with short deadlines. This is a matter of great cross-political agreement – it is unanimously set up by the Committee. It is worth stressing that the procedures have been followed by the Committee. We've been good, and we'll continue to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e198	I am pleased that we have a government that promotes legislative proposals for the Storting that are adapted to the actual situation we are facing, which balances concrete action against what is proportionate at the given time, while taking into account fundamental legal certainty considerations. That is to say, on the proposal which the previous government put to the hearing, with a deadline of 1 October, that it was far more extensive than what is now being discussed in the Grand Duchy. What the previous government put out for consultation meant increased access to written proceedings for criminal proceedings, increased access to written proceedings for limited appeals to the law enforcement authority and increased access to written appeals to the Supreme Court in criminal proceedings. Temporary rules must not be applied to a greater extent than is necessary and must be an important principle. The government has made a proportionality assessment, taking into account different considerations, listened to the hearing bodies and, in that context, concluded that what is needed in this given situation now is the continuation of the grounds for remote interrogation and remote meetings. Not going beyond what is necessary is an important legal certainty perspective. Therefore, it is a little strange to see the criticism from the opposition, which takes time to criticise the government’s work process — a process they used on several occasions when they were dealing with covid-related issues. The most important thing now must be to adopt the legislative changes that there is obviously a broad consensus that are correct. It's worth noting the way the former government parties go into debates in an acutely infected situation. It is obvious that the role of the opposition is critical to the government’s handling of matters. However, I would like to say that the leftover impression so far is that important issues related to corona management under the previous government took place in a somewhat more bleak political climate than what we see now. We are still in a serious infectious situation, and cooperation and the emergence of wise solutions for all areas of society must be the most important thing – in any case. The most important thing now is that the measures in this case, in the interim law, prevent delays in the courts or that proceedings must be interrupted as a result of the fact that some of the actors are unable to respond because of outbreaks or symptoms. The decision now provides for the possibility for the courts to prevent the spread of infection and to settle cases at the same time according to established plans. It is a correct and important measure as it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e213	Provisional rules for the courts and the justice sector have been in place since March 2020 and have been in place until 1 December of this year. For the courts it has, among other things, have been open to more use of remote meeting technologies and digital solutions and some more written treatment. Electronic signature and service rules have now entered into force as permanent rules. Over the autumn, the epidemic has been increasing in Norway and there has been a significant increase in respiratory symptoms. A new mutant of the coronary virus has arrived, infection rates have reached a new, high level, and national and local measures have been introduced. The courts are now particularly vulnerable so that judges, lawyers or parties are not able to attend the courtroom. This may lead to the absence of a winding-up of legal proceedings and to numerous deferrals. Distance requirements and measures to limit the spread of infection may make it difficult to resolve cases in the courts. Earlier in the pandemic, in particular, access to court meetings as remote meetings has proved to be an important means of continuing to resolve cases during periods of infection prevention. My view after the consultation and contact with the actors is that extended access to remote meetings and distance learning will be able to address the consequences of the anti-infection measures before the courts. The international disease situation suggests that there is still a need for increased access to the electronic transmission of extradition requests and legal requests, as is the case with the proposal. As has been shown, infection prevention measures can still be implemented at short notice, both locally and nationally. The duration of protection after the vaccine is uncertain and there is a risk of multiple mutations. Therefore, I see that the risk profile for the development of the pandemic is uncertain, and we propose that the temporary law should apply until 1 July 2022. The law will have a limited duration and the measures are sound and proportionate. I do not see any legal security concerns by reintroducing some temporary rules now. I'll comment on the process here a little bit. When the previous government sent the proposal to the hearing and the hearing was closed, also during the previous government, the infection situation was different. Then the reopening of society was in focus, and that was not the basis for continuing the temporary rules, after we were advised. So the situation has changed a lot over the past few weeks, and we started working to be able to extend these laws as soon as there was a basis for it. I would like to thank the Committee again for really a very good effort to ensure that the courts can be able to carry out their social mission even further in the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e224	The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e229	After hearing the input from the Council of State and the contribution from the Committee’s representative for the Advance Party, I think it is appropriate to point out that I believe that for the process it is unfortunate that the Stortinget gets to deal with matters that violate the normal procedure. But I think we have to agree that here the previous government and the current government bear a common responsibility, because it was well that when the previous government earlier in the harvest more or less canceled the pandemic, they also stated – as the Council of State explained – that there was no need for the passing of the temporary laws on the infection. Unfortunately, it turned out to be wrong. With that, I would like to thank the Department and the Council of State for quickly turning around and coming to Stortinget with the matter. I want to add, because I was also on the Justice Committee in the previous period, that no less than twice in the last period, there was a lawless hole, precisely because you couldn't have a procedure that followed the temporary laws so you could get a seamless overlap. The Committee also had to turn around quickly and make sure that the rooms were as small as possible, and the cooperation also worked well between the Ministry and the Committee and the Government and the Magnificence in order to get them in place. There is a difficult situation when the spread of infection is rapid in society and both government and population have to turn around. I am once again pleased that the Committee was able to deal with this quickly, and that we are now close to the gap which unfortunately arose.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e236	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e253	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, there will be no replication, and those who draw on the voice list in addition to the time allocated will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e260	Prop. 34 L for 2021 to 2022 proposes a temporary Chapter 3(A) of the Penal Code, with rules that may apply in the event of an outbreak of a public infectious disease and that may contribute to the proper implementation of penalties in a serious infectious situation. Following the proposal, the rules shall apply until 1 July 2022. We have had such rules until December 1st this year, but now the home has expired. The Committee would have liked the situation to have changed today, so that there was no need for such temporary rules. Unfortunately, recent developments show the opposite. The Committee points out that, as in the past, the homes are intended to be used only when a public infectious disease that is contagious by indirect contact, infestation or airborne contamination has occurred and measures under this Chapter are necessary as a result of the outbreak of the disease. The Committee notes that the proposal also contains the same main elements as in the now repealed law of 11 June 2021. That means: a provision for visits to prison; a provision for Community exclusion with other prisoners to prevent transmission of infection; a provision on the enforcement of penalties outside prison, mainly by electronic means; a provision on leave and leave a provision on penalties for the execution of penalties in society; The Committee notes that the new legislative proposal differs in substance from the rules applicable until 1 December 2021 on two points; it is § 45(b) on visits to prison, and it is § 45(c) on exclusion from community with other prisoners. The Committee points out that the proposal will contribute to the effective implementation of penalties in the event of an outbreak of a public infectious disease even after 1 December 2021. The measures provided for in Chapter 3A of the Criminal Enforcement Act may be of intervention. However, the rules are designed in such a way that they are to be used only when necessary, and the measures are to be considered far on the road in relation to the individual conviction or incarceration. The requirements of necessity and proportionality are, in principle, the same in normal times and the consequence of the care of persons deprived of the freedom to move freely. As the rapporteur, I would once again like to thank all the members of the Judicial Committee for their good cooperation in putting this temporary law in place very quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e295	I'm weak for reprisals, so it's good to draw it again. In this case, I would like to stress the importance of good practice when it comes specifically to measures in which people live under detention. These are very intrusive measures, some of the more intrusive measures we are actually taking to remedy the infectious situation we now have. It is therefore important that matters go through the committee and are properly dealt with there. The proposal on the table today is better than the previous one. It is good that manning challenges in criminal care now do not provide a basis for refusal of visits. In this context, it may be useful to stress and remember that the criminal services have experienced years of cutbacks under the blue government, that the staff has been under pressure in criminal care for a long time, but that government and SV now strengthen criminal care after years of cutbacks. This is also important in order not only to become objectives on paper, but that criminal services actually get those tools in order to be able to follow up the burdens they get from us. It is also important that the rules now be adapted in such a way that those who have less than two hours of meaningful human contact have the possibility of contact with family or others by means of remote communication. It cannot be underestimated how demanding it will be to be deprived of liberty, to be more isolated than the penalty has been intended to be – how incredibly demanding it can be. Therefore, it is important to address such unintended consequences of the infection measures. And therefore we are pleased with the legislation that is on the table today, and believe it is important that it be practiced in a good way and with the least possible intervention for them as zones. So it's important to stress the temporaryity of this law, that this is a law that now lasts six months. It's not lucky for those who experience the interventions, but it's necessary to remedy the infection situation we're now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e306	The Korona crisis has affected the lives of all of us, perhaps even more for those who live in public institutions, including prisons. When the pandemic hit, criminal services had to throw around and find infectious solutions in prisons, while at the same time maintaining the mental and physical health of the prisoners. In this context, temporary rules on the implementation of penalties were adopted. It's important that we take care that we're not so adaptive that we let temporary corona adjustments slide over to normal, and it's therefore important for the Left to stress that these rules are not permanent. I also refer to our remark. Unfortunately, the pandemic is not over, and the need to continue some measures is present. So for most of us, the Korona measures we've lived with for a long time have been experienced as very intrusive. The more intrusive it must be for those who are inside and have already been deprived of the freedom to move freely. It is therefore essential that the measures we are now taking continue to be applied only when absolutely necessary, and that – as the Committee recommends – they be seen in the context of the situation of each individual prisoner. The measures must be proportionate and particular attention must be paid to prisoners with children or those in a particularly vulnerable situation. In order to ensure this proportionality, it is important that criminal law decisions are based on broad and external health professional assessments. It's a prerequisite that we then pass on the corona regulations. Crime prevention, as has also been emphasised by a number of hearing bodies, must constantly assess the responses to the health effects of the rules on prisoners in prisons. Interactive and isolating measures affect everyone’s health. It affects us negatively, and it leads us to feel at a greater distance to each other and to society. That's the way it is for the prisoners in the prisons. Therefore, it is absolutely essential that we take their rights and health seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e317	I would once again like to thank the Cooperation Committee and the Committee for its swift turn around and for helping us to deal with this matter. Prison means that many people live under the same roof, with limited opportunities to withdraw. The outbreak of covid-19 has had significant consequences for criminal justice. Initially, during the pandemic, the ethos stressed the need to prevent infection in prisons and to reduce the number of prisoners in order to ensure safe conditions for those who still had to be there. During the period of covid-19, temporary rules on the implementation of penalties have been laid down for several rounds — first a regulation in compliance with the Korona Act, then by laws adopted by the Stortinget in May and December 2020 and in June 2021. The last legislative decision, from June 2021, was limited to 1 December of this year and applied to both covid-19 and possible outbreaks of other diseases that are similar and contagious easily. The need to use the funds provided for in these specific rules has varied. Earlier in the fall, most of it went as normal in criminal matters, but now the situation has changed, and covid-19 is becoming more common again. Restrictions on the possibility of prison visits, leave of absence or exclusion from the Community with other prisoners under these rules impose a burden on both prisoners and relatives. At the same time, the Directorate of Criminal Welfare considers that these rules have been necessary to manage the pandemic properly and within a secure legal framework. I think we all agree that the best thing would be for us to do without these rules, but in today's situation, with a lot of covid-19 infection and still uncertainty about how it will develop further, I think we should have such rules for a while to come. With some adjustments, we have therefore proposed rules equivalent to the Penal Code Chapter 3(A) for the time being until 1 July 2022. In my work on the matter, I have been concerned that we are going into this thoroughly and stress that the measures should be as small as possible. This is why we have looked at the hearing, and after the consultation, the proposal for the provision for visits to prison has been somewhat narrowed by the fact that manning challenges will no longer provide the basis for refusing to visit these rules. It is also stated in the proposal that increased access to testing should be of importance for the assessment of whether criminal services should refuse visits due to the risk of contamination by the visitor. For example, in relation to the exclusion provision from the Community: stated that criminal services should facilitate the use of self-testing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e334	As the representative of the SV and others here have explained in a good way, the government has presented a proposal that takes more account of the human rights surrounding the settlement conditions of the individual prisoners. This is wise, and it follows up well, among other things. The Civil Ombudsman’s criticism in the hearings that have been held in the past. Then I would also like to point out that we are already seeing that the infectious disease situation at some of the country's prisons is becoming burdensome. We get feedback from trustees who point to an increase in the pressure and that it is difficult to ensure that the infection does not spread in a number of our prisons. Therefore, it is important to remember that when we now say that manning conditions do not provide a basis for refusing visits, and we extend the possibility of family contact – which is absolutely good and good – this has an effect on the manning situation and everyday life in prison. It will further challenge the situation. This may lead to a more frequent use of other rules in the law that we now adopt, such as early release and other possible arrangements to reduce the number of prisoners. Taking the floor in prisons down, we know that then, for a short period of time, the settlement queues will increase on the outside of prisons. This is unfortunate, and this is something the Storting should follow closely and ensure that we find good solutions where possible, and that we quickly return to an appropriate everyday life as the infection situation allows.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e343	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e362	The fight against negative social control is one of the most important freedom struggles we have in today's Norway. Norway is a country that offers people equal opportunities, regardless of gender, religion, background, ethnicity, orientation, etc. The fact that people are free to control their own lives is absolutely essential in our society. Unfortunately, although the vast majority of us enjoy this freedom, it does not apply to everyone. There are forces in our society that are countering these ideals of freedom we have, which are countering the acquired freedoms of both men and women. There are people and environments in Norway who do not accept equal value for men and women. There are people and environments in Norway who do not accept that girls and women should be able to control their own lives. We see this in particular in conservative Muslim environments, where girls in particular are viewed as a man's or family's property. This species sometimes becomes directly coercive, sometimes more indirect, but then e.g. through negative social control, which is equally full of coercion. This is happening in several areas, but in my interpellation today, I am lifting the use of lucky garments like Nicab and Burka. Both I and the Progress Party have addressed this several times in the past, and we have been met with several counter-arguments. One of the counter-arguments has been: this applies to so few, why should we spend time on it? The number is immaterial. We have to discuss the principal aspects here. Much also suggests that the problem is growing, and it is better to take the trouble at the root than to wait until it has grown larger. Either way, it's not important whether this applies to one person, 100 people or 10,000 girls. I will not give in to the fight against coercion and negative social control until no one is subjected to this – none. The use of nikab and jars has several highly problematic aspects. One thing is practical, with strong camouflage in public space, it can create security challenges. We had never accepted that someone was wearing a Finnish hood into a bank. It also creates major challenges for individuals. Nicab and burka hinder our work with equality. The ladies who are going with this are unintegrable. Their identity is gone, they're none, they can't work in a workplace. So to another important argument, we can't discuss the use of nikab and burka as a garment. There's a symbolism in it, because if it was just a garment, an equally likely one could dress up hats, jog pants, hats and mouthbands, but it doesn't. The ideology behind Nicab and Burka is a barbaric and brutal ideology, Islamism. It is an ideology in line with Nazism and communism. Ideology is countering our entire free, democratic society. It has to be controlled. We can't be naive. No girls or women shall be forced to use these symbols. If Norwegian environments had thought that ladies would wrap themselves in this way, everyone would have reacted. So for the sake of both the security of society, the fight against Islamism, and not least to ensure all the girls and women in Norway the fundamental freedoms of our society, I challenge the Council of State: does the Council of State support the view of the Progress Party that burkas, nicab and other lucky garments should be banned?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e377	I strongly distance myself from religious or ideologically motivated facial coverage. For me, it is a clear symbol of a lack of equality and of negative social control. I'm going to fight it and hold it. So the question is, how do we do it the best possible way? There is already a ban on facial-discovering clothing in kindergartens and educational situations. This is a prohibition that is necessary and important. It is a prohibition that provides for good interaction and communication, which is decisive for a good learning exchange. I believe that this prohibition takes care of what is an essential part of the need that we could have had to prohibit the use of facial-covering clothing in general in Norway today. There are several dilemmas associated with the introduction of a general ban on facial-discovering garments. The Interpellant points out that in 2014, the European Court of Human Rights dealt with issues relating to the French ban on the use of facial-discovering garments in public places and concluded that it was not contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. But we also know that in 2018 the UN Committee on Human Rights considered that a general ban, rather than protecting women who use whole-covered garments, could have the opposite effect: limiting them to their homes, preventing their access to public services and potentially exposing them to abuse and marginalisation. A face-covering ban is not mentioned in the Hurdal platform. It's not the government's policy to use additional prohibitions here, except what we already have. Instead of imposing a general ban in public places or expanding today's ban, I think we need to increase our efforts to fight against negative social control through other measures. I'd like to name some. Firstly, there are now 59 minority counsellors in selected schools. This is a scheme that was introduced for the first time during the Stoltenberg administration. Later, it has been expanded several times. There is something that lowers the threshold for students to contact, and it is an important step towards early introduction of more preventive measures. There are also four integration advisors in selected foreign stations providing consular assistance to people who have been postponed. Secondly, in 2021, the Directorate for Integration and Social Security set up its team for the prevention of negative social control and honour-related power. They provide guidance for students in schools that do not have minority advisors. They provide guidance to refugee services, to Nav, to adult education institutions and to other support services. Thirdly, at national level, we have put in place a number of specialised support services with a high level of negative social control and honor-related authority, forced marriages and sexual mutilation. Among other things, the national cross-border competence team provides advice and guidance to all those who need it, including membership in the support services and, not least, postpone people themselves. Work to combat negative social control is taking place, among other things. on the exercise of fundamental rights, on the prevention of outreach and on the fight against violence and abuse. In the government platform, we focus on specific areas and actions that we will have a searchlight on in the future. I'm going to call five of them. Firstly, the government will work for a strong community of expertise in the police districts and for the ordinary relief services to be better equipped to capture people who have been exposed. Secondly, we will make proposals for changes in criminal law to strengthen the legal protection of individuals, and we will cooperate with the community of threats and life to strengthen integration, better equality and increase knowledge of Norwegian law in the field of life. Thirdly, we are paying attention to transnational challenges and will assess whether cross-border enforcement and honorary control should be seen as organised crime or trafficking in human beings. Fourthly, we will strengthen our efforts to prevent children and young people from being left behind by their parents abroad, against their will. Fifthly, I'm going to be very clear on what values form the basis for the players in Norway. There's going to be equality is going to be a very central part of thecitizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e398	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'll take the positive first. It is that the Council of State shares – at least as I interpret her – what is initially the view of the Advance Party on burka and nikab. As the Council of State itself says, this is a strong woman's oppressive garment. We have a good deal of quotes that show what the Council of State has said in the past – that the Council of State has had statements that are quite similar to those of the Progress Party. The Progress Party has also recorded that former immigration figures in the Workers' Party, Arild Grande, were in favour of a ban. His successor, Lise Christoffersen, who was an immigration and integrationist spokeswoman for the Workers' Party, was in favour of a ban. Then we have party leaders in the Workers' Party, Jonas Gahr Støre. The Labour Party has previously shown that they felt that the desire of the Progress Party to ban this is contrary to human rights. But as I refer to in the interpellation, and as the Council of State was in it, the verdict came that the Progress Party was right. We have the full opportunity to introduce this ban. Then the head of the Workers' Party, Jonas Gahr Støre, said that he opened up a ban on lucky garments in the light of the judgment that came. Then what I'm wondering is -- this is starting to be a few years ago -- for the Labour Party obviously agrees with the Advance Party that burka and nikab are strong women's oppressive garments, it prevents integration, it makes girls and women unfree, it makes girls and women not benefiting from the freedoms that we all have. But then you won't do anything! Then it helps very little that the Council of State is standing here on this pulpit and says that she wants to be very clear. It doesn't help. I'm sorry, but I don't believe that the conservative Muslim communities are listening very much to what is being said from this pulpit. That is why I am disappointed that the Workers' Party – and now also the Centre Party – chooses to close its eyes to the big challenge this is for those girls and women who do not benefit from the freedoms that everyone else is taking for granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e411	It is the Hurdal platform that presides for the government its policy. There is no ban on face coverage, therefore neither is government policy. Nor is it mentioned in the current program of the Labour Party, and that is what the Labour Party believes. Then the representative of Wiborg is quite right that in the public political debate the representatives of the Labour Party have, of course, also taken a living part in the discussions. It's just supposed to be missing. It should not be for the Progress Party to proceed in this way. They are also very active in public political debates. In 2017, the representative Jan Bøhler – then from the Labour Party – asked the then Minister for Immigration and Integration, Sylvi Listhaug, about a national ban on burka and other clothing. Then Minister of Justice Listhaug replied that the government she was part of would not impose a national ban on Nicab and Burka. It's about the school. I would like to stress that this kind of discussion is not so much for a party that now has the impending Minister of Justice as a party leader. The representative also refers to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in 2014. There the court showed that the states have quite a margin of discretion in this field, and that the French ban was proportionate and necessary. They have two similar cases from Belgium, where they also thought there were no violations of the European Convention on Human Rights. I would like to hear the interpellant’s assessment of two issues in the UN Committee on Human Rights of 2018, where they deal with the prohibition of facial-disguising clothing, for those issues show that the Committee imposes very strict requirements on necessity and proportionality assessments, following the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights, and stricter requirements than the EMD has made under the EMK. It would be natural for a person to enter into the type of detail when the representative himself requests it. They concluded in both cases that the French prohibition was not necessary or proportionate and that it infringed the complainant's rights under the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights under Article 18. The Committee also concluded that the French prohibition constituted discrimination on grounds of sex and religion, contrary to Article 26. Now, I mean that the situation in France and Belgium may not necessarily be directly comparable to that in Norway, but when the representative himself draws this kind of comparison, I would like to hear his more in-depth assessments of this. I myself believe that to fight against this kind of symbol and garment, which I also see as a clear symbol of a lack of equality, there is another tool that is more suitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e428	The fight against negative social control has many similarities with the struggles of the labour movement and the women's movement has fought before. It's the struggle for the freedom to choose who you are, to love whom you want, to become what you want. Covering their faces from religious or ideological convictions is easy to distance. It doesn't belong in the freedom struggle we fight on behalf of all women. Negative social control creates difficult family relationships. It creates insecure young people, it creates poorer societies. If we're going to be able to create a society where everyone's free, we have to look at the reasons why someone's not free. Often, parents and families exercise the negative social control, which puts girls in the girls' room – shutting them out of the world. A Fafo report on social control shows that negative social control decreases the longer parents live in and become part of Norway. We have to give the parents the tools they need – and tell them what we as a society expect – to raise the children without negative social control. The most important thing we can do to combat negative social control is to strengthen integration in Norway. When the family doesn't accept who you are, society has to be there as a community to accept you. We need to give children and young people the courage to take the discussion with their own parents. The dream of free life in Norway is to facilitate society. Everyone who comes to Norway is going to be part of our big community. Then it is a pity that the Progress Party does not give priority to solving these complicated problems, but always resorts to light rhetoric in terms of prohibition, punishment and coercion. Wiborg says today that we are not doing anything, and that is completely wrong. In the Hurdal platform, we clearly say that the main objective of the government's integration work is to increase the number of people working, build strong communities, create good common arenas, promote equality and combat negative social control. We fight women every day, and we get ever closer to real freedom for all women. We cannot thank the Progress Party for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e443	All women, children and young people have the right to live their lives free from physical and mental violence. Suppressive structures with negative social control and honour-related violence have existed in different cultures at different times and to different degrees. But it is also about the control – the same gender discrimination – that affects women and children separately in our society, also today. It is therefore always necessary to look at these issues from an equal opportunities policy perspective and from a child rights perspective. No one would think that negative social control is OK; only the word negative brings discomfort, and when we put it together with control, it becomes even more problematic. Then there are some environments and cultures that think that some social control is positive and a social good. We don't think that's right in our society, and that's why we're going to work together to end it. However, linking negative social control directly to a ban on lucky garments — which in itself will also lead to a control, but there is a control that the interpellant seems to think is acceptable — becomes a wrong approach. Force is something we always have to fight. The fact that girls and women don't have self-determination about what they can wear is, of course, totally unacceptable. So the question is, how do we do it? The goal is, I guess, that women should decide for themselves whether or not they want lucky clothes. A ban on having it would be to go into the second ditch and again impose controls on women and lack of self-determination. How will we fight it in our party? Firstly, it is about good integration work. Good schooling, education for all, language skills and not least strong links with the labour market are factors in ensuring participation in society and the community. In addition, we need to have communication. We need to have a dialogue with and an inclusion of the environments and the people that it actually applies. Action stepped down on people's heads rarely works according to purpose, regardless of peoples, culture or religious approach. Supporting individuals who challenge their environments and helping to ensure that it is safe to say from even in strict cultures where reactions may occur is also a societal task. We must provide financial support to those organisations – and many of them – who are working on prevention, both provide information into the environment and out to others, who are on the outside. Finally, as mentioned by the Council of State — minority counsellors in school. In its alternative budget, SV has spent money to keep it in high school as well, not only in high school. It's about prevention, it's about dialogue, and it's about finding good solutions together. We recognise that the use of such garments may have problematic aspects. We all want an open and free society, all the time it may be difficult to distinguish whether the use is entirely voluntary or under some form of coercion or social influence. These dress codes apply only to women and may be an expression of discrimination and oppression. But SV believes that a ban is not the way to go. We're going to continue working in such a way that it provides the basis for a universal human and female vision based on equivalency. We do best with an active policy to combat the oppressive cultures and structures we find in different environments, including in this country. SV is set to 15 million. kr in its alternative budget for voluntary work against negative social control and honour-related violence. There are many good forces working with us on this, but they also need funds and predictability in their work. We're taking this very seriously. Negative social control we're going to fight together, while we want women to decide for themselves what they want to wear when they get up in the morning. I think it is reassuring and positive that the Council of State supports this approach, and that we should jointly fight this, but without having to go to a general ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e464	Had it not been unparliamentary, it would have been tempting to say that the previous post was a study in boundless naivety. Realizing that this is a problem, but believing that this is solved by the fact that conservative Islamists might change the perception of a little more money for leisure clubs and minority advisors, is boundless naivety. I thank those who have participated in the interpellation debate, but what I am stunning at is: Where is the Center Party, where is the Right, where is the Left, where is the Christian People's Party – where are the other parties – in a debate about fundamental freedom, that all girls and women in Norway regardless of background should have the same freedom? No, they choose not to attend the same games. I want to make a few quotes. The party leader's statement must be trusted, and Jonas Gahr Støre said: ‘All-covering garments act as discrimination against women in practice.’ Then we know that the leader of the Workers' Party and the Prime Minister of today believe it, while his party and his government don't want to do anything about it. So state councillor Hadia Tajik says that there has been some debate in the party, but that no decision was taken at the national meeting. It is wrong that the National Labour Party's National Meeting decided that successful clothing in practice serves as discrimination against women. When the National Assembly of the Workers Party decides, it is strange that the Labour Party has no policy to change it. Then the Labour Party spokesman, Siri Gåsemyr Staales, goes to the pulpit and believes that this is a slight rhetoric from Wiborg and the Progress Party. I drew a little bit on the smile band, because the rhetoric I used is direct quotes from the Workers' Party's representatives Lise Christoffersen and Arild Grande, so that the Workers' Party now categorizes as light rhetoric, are direct quotes from the Workers' Party's representatives. I think that's weird. I mean, as I said, one of the best statements was Lise Christoffersen from the Workers' Party who came with: ‘Niqab and burka hinder our work with equality. The ladies who are going with this are unintegrable. Their identity is gone. They're none. They cannot operate in a workplace.» I think that is a good word in view of what we are actually discussing. What I think is sad is that the government chooses the freedom of conservative Islamists in front of the freedom of every girl and woman in Norway to live the life they themselves wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e489	I have spent much of my adult life standing up to conservative Islamists. I can't believe the representative Wiborg claims anything else. It's not that the only way to fight conservative ideologies is to propose a ban. If that were the case, I would think that we would introduce far more bans in far more areas. I have not listened to the representative Wiborg’s assessment of the UN Human Rights Committee and their position on the French ban from 2018. I asked for it in my previous post. It's unclear to me, when the representative Wiborg is so engaged in the matter, why he wouldn't go closer to it. I have also not heard the representative of Wiborg do well for the other actions the Progress Party will promote to protect girls who are subjected to negative social control, when this clearly does not have multiples in this room. We have heard reports that are easily and naively from various representatives who have participated in the debate. But easily and naively – it’s coming up on this talking chair and talking about banning and using capital letters and exclamation signs, but don’t show the willingness to search for multiples to protect the girls it’s about here. I note the representative Wiborg's excellent ability to refer quotes from others. I would like to invite the representative of Wiborg to create a new quote, by proposing measures that have a basis for multiples, which can actually help promote more integration, more equality and protect girls who are subjected to negative social control. In any case, it is the role that the Labour Party and the Centre Party in this government intend to take, with the suggestions we want to make, which are firmly anchored in the Hurdal platform, as in particular. is about thorough legal work, but also about strengthening assistance services, minority counsellors and other arrangements that can be set up for girls in an outsourced position. In addition to that, I thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e500	The interaction debate was closed. Thus, today's maps are processed. The store is taking a break, and according to the announced agenda it will be voting at 0 p.m. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e527	The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1 and 2 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e628	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e638	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e755	It is contested in the third paragraph of Section 45b. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e769	The rest of I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e780	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e790	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled. The representative Sylvi Listhaug here tried to ask for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-09.ana.ud375e801	The meeting has been cancelled.
